ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risk Factors Related To Our Business Our tandem services business faces competition from the traditional ILECs and increasing competition from certain other providers such as Level 3 Communications, Peerless Network, Hypercube and Intelepeer, and we expect to compete with new entrants to the tandem services market. In addition, our IP Transit and Ethernet service businesses face competition from many companies, including Level 3, Verizon, AT&T, Equinix, CENX, Telx, TeliaSonera and Cogent. Our tandem (voice) services business faces competition from the traditional ILECs, other providers such as Level 3 Communications, Peerless Network, Hypercube and Intelepeer, and potentially from future entrants to the tandem services market. Please see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a further description of certain litigation in which we have been engaged with Peerless Network. Competition has intensified over the past several years, especially with Peerless Network, causing us to lose some traffic as well as significantly reduce certain rates we charge our customers in various markets, including with respect to our major customers in our largest markets. We expect significant competition in the tandem services market to continue, including as a result of the adoption of IP-based switching by telecommunications carriers, which is likely to increase competition from direct connections. See “—The market for our services is competitive and increased adoption of IP switching technologies could increase the competition we face from direct connections” below. Our IP Transit and Ethernet service businesses face competition from many companies, including Level 3, Verizon, AT&T, Equinix, CENX, Telx, TeliaSonera and Cogent. Certain of our current and potential competitors have significantly more employees and greater financial, technical, marketing, research and development, intellectual property development and protection and other resources than us. Also, some of our current and potential competitors have greater name recognition that they can use to their advantage. Our competitors have charged rates that are below the rates we charge, at times substantially, and may continue to do so in the future. In addition, our competitors could bundle other services with their IP Transit, Ethernet or tandem services to compete with us or be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements than we can. Furthermore, changes in technology have lowered the cost of entry into our business, which could promote additional competition. Existing or increased competition as described above could result in fewer customer orders, reduced revenues, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. The market for our services is competitive and increased adoption of IP switching technologies could increase the competition we face from direct connections. When there is a significant amount of traffic between two switches, there is an economic incentive to directly connect and remove the intermediate switching that we provide using our tandem switches. As our customers grow, the amount of traffic exchanged between them grows, thus leading to the risk that they will increase the number of direct connect switch paths that exchange traffic and remove that traffic from our tandems. We believe that the frequency at which our customers are implementing these direct connections is increasing, even in the case of lower traffic volume switch pairs, and we expect this trend to continue in the 22 Table of Contents future, which will cause us to experience a reduction in our revenue. Moreover, the risk of direct connections is continually increasing as more carriers move to an IP-based interface, because direct connecting between two IP-based carriers at one or only several points is less complex than establishing multiple direct connections between carriers’ switch pairs, thus enabling more direct connections. Moreover, since these direct connections would connect networks, as opposed to switch pairs, the amount of traffic carried over such a direct connection could be significant. In addition, consolidation among telecommunications carriers can stimulate the risk of direct connections by increasing both the incentive and feasibility of establishing direct connections. For example, we have noticed that certain competitive carriers established direct connections following completion of a business combination. Increased competition from direct connections could result in fewer customer orders, reduced revenues, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Regulatory developments could negatively impact our business. The communications services industry is extensively regulated by the federal and state governments. As described below, various state regulatory authorities have asserted regulatory authority over the pricing of incumbent local exchange carriers’ or ILECs’ local transit services, and the FCC is considering whether to adopt price regulation for local transit services at present. Moreover, the FCC has adopted a multi-year plan to reduce and, in many instances, eliminate access charges. The FCC also is considering further changes to its regulations governing access charges. To the extent that transit or access rates are further reduced or capped, it could have an adverse impact on us. Local Tandem Transit Service Some state regulatory authorities assert jurisdiction over the provision of local tandem transit services, particularly the ILECs’ provision of the service. Various states have initiated proceedings to examine the regulatory status of transit services. Some states have taken the position that transit service is an element of the “transport and termination of traffic” services that incumbent ILECs are required to provide at rates based on incremental costs under the Telecommunications Act, while other states have ruled that the Telecommunications Act does not apply to these services. For example: • A declaratory action was commenced in 2008 with the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control, or the DPUC, pursuant to which a competitive carrier requested that the DPUC order the ILEC to reduce its transit rate to a cost-based rate similar to a rate offered by that ILEC in a different state or to a rate justified in a separate cost proceeding. In 2010, the DPUC ordered the ILEC to implement a new rate based on the ILEC’s costs for transit. The ILEC has made this rate available to all of its customers. The ILEC appealed the DPUC’s ruling to the appropriate federal court. We filed an amicus brief supporting the ILEC’s position. The federal court issued a decision in the ILEC’s appeal on May 6, 2011. The court affirmed the DPUC’s decision to require the ILEC to reduce its transit rate to a cost-based rate for the competitive carrier that initiated the action at the DPUC. However, the court found that the DPUC could not require the ILEC to reduce its transit rates to other carriers without first allowing the carriers an opportunity to negotiate new rates under the terms of their contracts. The court also found that the DPUC’s decision to require the ILEC to adopt an interim pricing level, without first allowing the ILEC the opportunity to negotiate, was arbitrary and capricious. The court held that, if the carriers do not reach agreement on rates, the DPUC can order the ILEC to charge cost-based rates. The ILEC has appealed the federal court’s decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. We have filed an amicus brief supporting the ILEC’s position. We already lowered the rate we charge certain of our customers, in some cases substantially, as a result of the DPUC’s ruling, which has had a significant impact on the profitability of our service in Connecticut. • In 2005, the Michigan Public Service Commission revised the maximum allowable rate that AT&T could charge for transit service in Michigan based on AT&T’s total element long run incremental cost, or TELRIC, which was significantly below the rate previously charged by AT&T (previously SBC 23 Table of Contents Communications). This decision caused us to reduce the rate we charged for our transit service and had a significant impact on the profitability of our service in Michigan. • In December 2008, the United States District Court for the District of Nebraska held that the Public Service Commission of Nebraska was correct in determining that the ILEC must provide transit service under the Telecommunications Act and that the Nebraska PSC did not err in ordering the ILEC to provide the service at TELRIC based rates. • The Telecommunications Regulatory Board of Puerto Rico (the Puerto Rico Board), determined that the ILEC must provide transit service at a cost-based rate, and ordered the ILEC to submit a cost study in order to support the development of a cost-based rate. In addition to submitting the cost study, on September 23, 2009, the ILEC filed a motion seeking administrative review of the Puerto Rico Board’s order in the Puerto Rico appellate court. In its motion, the ILEC alleges that the Puerto Rico Board’s order constitutes a regulation and as such was not approved as required by provisions of Puerto Rico’s Uniform Administrative Law. If, as a result of any of these current proceedings or a different proceeding, the applicable ILEC is required to reduce or limit the rate it charges for local transit service, we would likely be forced to reduce our rate, perhaps substantially, or risk losing customer traffic, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The FCC currently does not regulate the local transit services we offer. However, in 2001, the FCC initiated a proceeding to address intercarrier compensation issues, such as rules that govern the amount that one carrier pays to another carrier for access to the other’s network. In November 2011, the FCC released an intercarrier compensation reform order. That order did not adopt price regulation for local transit service. However, the FCC is currently considering whether to adopt price regulation for local transit service as part of ongoing proceedings. Any changes to the intercarrier compensation rules related to local transit service could have a material and adverse effect on our business. For example, the FCC could change the pricing of local transit traffic, including lowering the rate, freezing the rate or establishing uniform rates, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, from time to time, carriers that we connect with have requested that we pay them to terminate traffic, and any new rules could address those rights or obligations. If the FCC determines that a terminating carrier has the right to receive payments from us for terminating local transit traffic, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Additionally, several proposals considered by the FCC in its intercarrier compensation proceeding have contained provisions that indirectly affect local transit traffic. For example, under current law, the originating carrier is typically responsible for paying the terminating carrier certain “terminating charges,” such as reciprocal compensation charges, for access to the terminating carrier’s network. As a result, we, as the intermediate transit provider, are not responsible for paying such terminating charges to a terminating carrier in connection with the transit services we offer. Previous FCC proposals, however, have required that we, as the transit provider, could be responsible for paying the highest lawful terminating charge to a terminating carrier if the terminating carrier received insufficient information for the terminating carrier to bill the originating carrier for that traffic. These amounts could be significantly larger than the rate we charge for providing the transit service associated with that traffic. Although the previous proposals also would allow us to recover from the originating carrier the same amount that we paid to the terminating carrier, in such an instance we would be faced with credit risks associated with collecting such amounts from the originating carrier, as well as possible disputes with both originating and terminating carriers regarding the appropriate amount due. In this event, if we were unable to recover amounts we paid to a terminating carrier or became involved in distracting and costly disputes with the originating carrier and/or the terminating carrier over the amount due, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, any final order could result in changes to the demand for our services or otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition, operating results and growth opportunities in a manner that we have not presently identified. 24 Table of Contents Access Services We also provide access services using our tandem switches. Access services are provided as a part of the origination and termination of long distance calls. The FCC regulates interstate access services and the states historically regulate intrastate access services. In its November 2011 intercarrier compensation reform order, however, the FCC approved reducing and ultimately eliminating both interstate and intrastate terminating access charges. In the order, the FCC capped most access rates as of December 29, 2011. The FCC then requires carriers to reduce their intrastate terminating end office rates that exceed the corresponding interstate rates by 1 / 2 of the difference between the rates in July 2012, and reduce those intrastate rates to parity with the interstate rates by July 2013. Thereafter, the FCC will require carriers to reduce their termination (and for some carriers also transport) rates to bill-and-keep within six years for price cap carriers, and nine years for rate of return carriers. The FCC has issued a further notice of proposed rulemaking transition for the remaining originating and transport rate elements. Various states are also separately conducting proceedings to determine whether to decrease existing intrastate access charges. If the FCC or any state lowers any access charges that we may charge our customers, such change could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or growth opportunities. The telecommunications industry recently has seen an escalating rate of disputes among telephone carriers and other service providers over the extent of the obligation to pay access charges, particularly in cases where VoIP technology is used for all or some of the call transmission. The FCC order described above resolved this issue on a prospective basis and holds that, prospectively, VoIP calls will be subject to interstate access charges and/or reciprocal compensation. If, however, future rulings establish that we are not able to enforce our access tariffs with respect to VoIP or other types of calls, we could experience a material and adverse effect on our revenues, financial condition, operating results or growth opportunities. As communications technologies and the communications industry continue to evolve, the statutes governing the communications industry or the regulatory policies of the FCC, state legislatures or agencies, or local authorities may change. If this were to occur, including pursuant to any of the proceedings discussed above, the demand and pricing for our services could change in ways that we cannot easily predict and our revenues could materially decline. These risks include the ability of the federal government, including Congress or the FCC, or state legislatures or agencies, or local authorities to: • increase regulatory oversight over the services we provide, including limiting the prices we can charge; • adopt or modify statutes, regulations, policies, procedures or programs that are disadvantageous to the services we provide, or that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, or that require modification of the terms of our existing contracts, including reducing the rates for our services; • adopt or modify statutes, regulations, policies, procedures or programs in a way that causes changes to our operations or costs or the operations of our customers, including the pricing of our services to our customers; • adopt or modify statutes, regulations, policies, procedures or programs in a way that causes a decrease in the amount of traffic our customers exchange with us or causes a change to our customers’ traffic mix, which results in our customers using, on average, lower priced services; or • increase or impose new or additional taxes or surcharges that are disadvantageous to the services we provide or cause a decrease in the amount of traffic our customers deliver to us. 25 Table of Contents We cannot predict when, or upon what terms and conditions, further U.S federal, state or local regulation or deregulation might occur or the effect future regulation or deregulation may have on our business. The intercarrier compensation reform order released by the FCC in November 2011 has been appealed by several parties, and we cannot predict whether any such appeals might be successful. Any of these government actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance at desired pricing levels could impact our ability to maintain profitability or positive cash flow. As a result of competition, the average rates charged for voice services in the United States and IP Transit services globally have decreased significantly over the past several years. We believe that this trend is likely to continue for the foreseeable future. In addition to the regulatory risks that could cause price decreases, the primary sources of pricing pressure include: • competitors offering our customers services at reduced prices, at times substantially, or bundling and pricing services in a manner that makes it difficult for us to compete. For example, a competing provider of transit services might bundle transit with other services, such as inexpensive long distance services; • customers with a significant volume of traffic have in the past and may in the future use their enhanced leverage in pricing negotiations with us. For example, from time to time, customers have requested that we reduce the prices we charge them or they will migrate their traffic to a competitor. Such requests may result in lowered pricing or lost traffic, either of which may adversely affect our business; and • if our prices are too high, potential customers may find it economically advantageous to handle certain functions internally, such as exchanging voice traffic, using direct connections instead of using us. If we are unable to offset the effects of any price reductions by carrying higher volumes of traffic, we could experience reduced revenues and gross margins, either of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. If we do not efficiently and effectively integrate our recent acquisition of Tinet S.p.A. and any future business acquisitions, we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits from such acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of our recent acquisition of Tinet and any future acquisitions will depend in part upon whether we can integrate Tinet’s business with our existing business in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of Tinet and any future businesses that we may acquire involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • demands on management related to the significant increase in size after the acquisition; • the disruption of ongoing business and the diversion of management’s attention from managing daily operations to managing integration activities, which may require coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating and retaining personnel with disparate business backgrounds, and combining different corporate cultures; • failure to anticipate the costs related to accounting and tax matters resulting from operating a global business, including with respect to the costs of hiring employees and professional consultants to comply with accounting and tax matters, as well as the payment of taxes imposed by various taxing authorities and disputes related thereto; • failure to fully achieve expected synergies and costs savings; 26 Table of Contents • unanticipated impediments in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002), procedures and policies; • loss of customers or the failure of customers to order incremental services that we expect them to order; • failure to provision services that are ordered by customers during the integration period; • higher integration costs than anticipated; and • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of highly qualified and experienced employees. Successful integration of Tinet and any future acquired businesses or operations will depend on our ability to manage these operations, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened service offerings and expanded geographic market coverage, obtain better terms from our vendors due to increased buying power, and eliminate redundant and excess costs to fully realize the expected synergies. Because of difficulties in combining geographically distant operations and systems which may not be fully compatible, we may not be able to achieve the financial benefits and growth we anticipate from the acquisitions. In addition, acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may reduce our liquidity and capital resources and may require additional debt or equity financing, resulting in reduced financial resources, additional leverage or dilution of ownership. We may also need to record write-downs from future impairments of intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings. At times, acquisition candidates may have liabilities, neutrality-related risks or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. We cannot be certain that we will realize our anticipated benefits from our acquisition of Tinet or any future acquired businesses, or that we will be able to efficiently and effectively integrate the acquired operations as planned. If we fail to efficiently and effectively integrate the acquired businesses and operations or fail to realize the benefits we anticipate, we could experience material adverse effects on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. International regulatory developments could negatively impact our business. Our international communications services, especially our voice services, are subject to significant international regulation. These regulations may affect both our international business and our existing and potential competitors. Delays in receiving required regulatory approvals (including approvals relating to commencing operations, approving acquisitions or financing activities), completing interconnection agreements with other carriers, or the enactment of new and adverse regulations or regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on our international business. In addition, future legislative, judicial and regulatory agency actions could have a material adverse effect on our international business. Our top five customers represent, in the aggregate, a substantial portion of our revenue. Our top five customers, in the aggregate, represented approximately 49% of our total revenues during the year ended December 31, 2011. Our two largest customers, AT&T and Sprint Nextel, accounted for 22% and 13% respectively, of our total revenues during the year ended December 31, 2011. Certain of these customers have solicited or received proposals from other carriers to provide services that are the same as or similar to ours, and in some cases, have moved traffic to those competitors. In other cases, we have been required to substantially lower the rates we charge our customers to retain their traffic. As discussed in “—Our tandem services business faces competition from the traditional ILECs and increasing competition from certain other providers such as Level 3 Communications, Peerless Network and Hypercube, and we expect to compete with new entrants to the tandem services market “ above, competition has intensified over the past several years, and we expect this trend to continue. In addition, our contracts with these customers have no volume or exclusivity commitments and any customer is able to discontinue the use of all or a portion of our services at any time. 27 Table of Contents We may lose all or a portion of our business with any of these customers if we fail to meet our customers’ expectations, including for performance and other reasons, or if another provider offers to provide the same or similar services at a lower cost. In addition, competitive forces resulting from the entrance of competing providers have created significant pricing pressure in certain of our largest markets with respect to all of our customers, including our top five customers. We expect this trend to continue. Moreover, the recent economic downturn could result in a decrease in the amount of services customers purchase from us or delays or failures to pay for such services. For example, poor economic conditions could reduce both consumer and non-consumer spending on telephone services which in turn could result in a reduction in our customers’ demand for our services. Furthermore, financial pressure faced by our customers could result in mergers, acquisitions, liquidations or divestitures of all or a portion of our customers’ businesses, which in turn could result in a reduction in the use of our services. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we terminated 63% of our voice traffic in the United States to five carriers. Although we provide multiple services, we generate a significant portion of our revenue from voice services provided in the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we delivered 63% of our voice traffic in the United States to five carriers. If for any reason we are unable to terminate voice traffic to any one of these five carriers or a material amount of any terminating traffic to any other carrier(s), we would be unable to generate revenue from our customer originating the calls to such terminating carriers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, if any carrier refuses to accept voice traffic or conditions receipt on terms that are not favorable to us, regardless of what we believe is their legal obligation to do so, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating result. See “Carriers may refuse to directly interconnect with us and consequently, we would be unable to terminate our customers’ traffic to them” below. Carriers may refuse to directly interconnect with us and consequently, we would be unable to terminate our customers’ traffic to them. By operating as a voice common carrier, we benefit from certain legal rights established by federal and state statutes. We have used these rights to gain interconnection with the incumbent telephone companies. We have also used these rights to request interconnection with competitive carriers for the termination of traffic to carriers that decide for whatever reason not to utilize our service. While our experience has been that competitive carriers usually accommodate such requests, we have been involved in various state and federal regulatory proceedings against Level 3 and Verizon Wireless related to their refusal to continue to accept terminating local transit traffic. We entered into agreements resolving these disputes in 2008. If, however, any carrier in the future refuses to accept either access or local transit traffic over a direct connection or otherwise seeks to limit or condition our ability to terminate traffic on terms that are not favorable to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Moreover, even though we believe that we have the legal right to exchange traffic with carriers under reasonable terms and may seek to enforce that right in legal or regulatory proceedings, there can be no assurance that we would prevail. Our efforts therefore in any proceedings or responding to other actions could have an adverse impact on us if we do not prevail, or even if we do prevail, because of legal costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. 28 Table of Contents Our business requires the continued development of effective business support systems to implement customer orders, provide and bill for services, and pay for services we receive from our vendors. Our business depends on our ability to continue to develop effective business support systems. We are currently expending significant resources to develop and enhance a web-based portal application in connection with providing our Ethernet services. In certain cases, the development of these business support systems is required to realize our anticipated benefits from our acquisition of Tinet. This can be a complicated undertaking that requires significant resources and expertise and support from third-party vendors. Business support systems are needed for: • ordering services from our vendors and verifying that we are being charged the correct amount; • quoting, accepting and inputting customer orders for services; • provisioning, installing and delivering these services; and • billing for these services. Because our business plans provide for continued growth in the number of customers that we serve and the volume of services offered as well as the integration of Tinet’s, and potentially other acquired companies’, business support systems, there is a need to continue to develop our business support systems on a timely basis. The failure to continue to develop effective unified business support systems could affect our ability to implement our business plans and realize anticipated benefits from our acquisition of Tinet and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to manage our growth strategy, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. As part of our growth strategy, we recently began offering new services, such as international voice, IP Transit, Ethernet and hosted services. For a further description of our services see “—Business” above. As a result, our new service initiatives are critical components of our growth strategy. We will face various risks associated with providing these new services, including risks relating to identifying, obtaining and integrating attractive network switch sites, suitable equipment or software, cost estimation errors or overruns, interconnection delays, material delays or shortages, our inability to obtain necessary permits on a timely basis, if at all, and other factors, including the impact of regulation, many of which are beyond our control and all of which could delay our expansion into new markets or ability to offer new services. We may not be able to enter new markets or offer new services on a timely or profitable basis, if at all. Furthermore, revenues from our growth initiatives may be lower than anticipated. In addition, entering new markets and offering new services will increase our operating expenses, including lease expenses, expenses associated with hiring, training, retaining and managing new employees, purchasing new equipment, implementing new systems and incurring additional depreciation expense. Furthermore, as our growth initiatives are implemented, we will be exposed to increased risks related to conducting operations outside of the United States, including currency exchange rate fluctuations, trade protection measures, difficulty in staffing, training and managing foreign operations, political and economic instability and diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States. If we are unable to successfully manage our growth strategy, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Consolidation in the industry, such as AT&T-BellSouth-Cingular, Verizon-MCI and SBC-AT&T, reduces the need for intercarrier transit services and may limit our growth opportunities. Consolidation in the industry reduces the need for intercarrier transit services by reducing the number of carriers. As carriers merge, (i) the risks to our business of direct connections increases, see “—The market for 29 Table of Contents our services is competitive and increased adoption of IP switching technologies could increase the competition we face from direct connections” below, (ii) traffic that was carrier-to-carrier becomes intra-carrier traffic not normally addressable by us and (iii) in the case of consolidations involving an ILEC, such as AT&T or Verizon Communications Inc., or Verizon, previous transit traffic between competitive carriers and the carrier acquired by the ILEC now potentially becomes ILEC reciprocal compensation traffic and not transit traffic, and thus potentially not addressable by us. For example, as a result of the SBC-AT&T combination, beginning in the second quarter of 2006, the combined SBC and AT&T entity began reducing the amount of minutes of use processed by us. During our 2006 fiscal year, we processed approximately 55% fewer minutes from AT&T and SBC, as a combined entity, compared to our 2005 fiscal year. We have experienced growth notwithstanding this consolidation, but our ability to grow in the future could be adversely affected by greater consolidation. Additionally, in connection with the 2006 merger of BellSouth Corp., or BellSouth, and AT&T, AT&T agreed not to seek an increase in its current local transit rates for existing transit customers for 42 months in the AT&T and BellSouth incumbent local exchange carrier service territories. While having no direct regulatory impact on us, such an agreement indirectly limits the rates we can charge for our transit service. Further consolidation in the industry could lead to similar agreements which would limit our ability to grow revenues and may materially affect our operating results. We will face various risks associated with providing these new services, including risks relating to identifying, obtaining and integrating attractive network switch sites, suitable equipment or software, cost estimation errors or overruns, interconnection delays, material delays or shortages, our inability to obtain necessary permits on a timely basis, if at all, and other factors, including the impact of regulation, many of which are beyond our control and all of which could delay our expansion into new markets or ability to offer new services. We may not be able to enter new markets or offer new services on a timely or profitable basis, if at all. Furthermore, revenues from our growth initiatives may be lower than anticipated. In addition, entering new markets and offering new services will increase our operating expenses, including lease expenses, expenses associated with hiring, training, retaining and managing new employees, purchasing new equipment, implementing new systems and incurring additional depreciation expense. Furthermore, as our growth initiatives are implemented, we will be exposed to increased risks related to conducting operations outside of the United States, including currency exchange rate fluctuations, trade protection measures, difficulty in staffing, training and managing foreign operations, political and economic instability and diminished protection of intellectual property in some countries outside of the United States. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect proprietary methods and technologies that we develop under the patent and other intellectual property laws of the United States, so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information. However, we may not hold proprietary rights to some of our current or future methods and technologies. Because patent applications in the United States are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all, and because publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain that we were the first to make the inventions claimed in issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in our patent applications. As a result, we may not be able to obtain adequate patent protection and competitors would be more easily able to compete with us. Moreover, we may even be required to obtain licenses under third-party patents. If licenses are not available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, we will not be able to operate our network and competitors would be more easily able to compete with us. The process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may be able to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The issuance of a patent does not guarantee that it is valid or enforceable, so even if we obtain patents, they may not be valid or enforceable against third parties. In addition, the issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have the right to practice the patented invention. Third parties may have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing our own patented product and practicing our own patented technology. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents. The patent position of technology-oriented companies, including ours, is generally uncertain and involves complex legal and factual considerations. The standards which the United States Patent and Trademark Office use to grant patents are not always applied 30 Table of Contents predictably or uniformly and can change. Accordingly, we do not know the degree of future protection for our proprietary rights or the breadth of claims allowed in any patents issued to us or to others. The allowance of broader claims may increase the incidence and cost of patent interference proceedings and/or opposition proceedings and the risk of such claims being invalidated by infringement litigation. On the other hand, the allowance of narrower claims may limit the value of our proprietary rights. Our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against third parties with similar technologies or products, or provide us with any competitive advantage. Moreover, once any patents have been issued, our patents and any patent for which we have licensed or may license rights may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. If our patents are invalidated or otherwise limited, other companies will be better able to develop products that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. On June 12, 2008, we commenced a patent infringement action against Peerless Network, Inc. and John Barnicle in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois to enforce our rights under the ‘708 Patent (Neutral Tandem, Inc. v Peerless Network, Inc., Peerless Network of Illinois, LLC and John Barnicle, 08 CV 3402) . On September 2, 2010, the court hearing the case granted Peerless Network’s motion for summary judgment. The court found that the ’708 Patent was invalid in light of a prior patent. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for a further description of this matter. On December 13, 2011, the federal appellate court affirmed the finding that our patent is invalid, and on January 30, 2012, the appellate court denied our petition for rehearing of the December 13, 2011 ruling. The Company has the option to ask the United States Supreme Court to review that ruling. A petition for such review would be due by April 30, 2012. The Supreme Court grants a very small percentage of such requests for review. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain approval of any tariff, or any provision of a tariff is held to be invalid or suspended, we could be unable to enforce the relevant provisions of the tariff, including the right to collect money for delivered services. We provide certain services, principally switched access services, pursuant to tariffs we have filed with the FCC and those states in which we operate. These tariffs essentially form the binding legal agreement under which we provide these services to certain customers, and include terms setting forth the pricing for the services, our right to collect amounts charged, and other customary terms related to the provision of the services, including provisions that limit our liability if we fail to properly provide a service. If we are unable to obtain approval of a tariff, or if a tariff is approved but it is later determined that a provision is invalid or unenforceable for any reason, such a determination could affect our ability to collect fees for any service we have provided, require us to refund payments previously received, or limit our ability to defend ourselves for services not provided in accordance with the tariff or otherwise. Any of the foregoing, or any other determination that a tariff provision is invalid or unenforceable, could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Failures or interruptions of our network and other network facilities or the loss of, or damage to, a network switch site or other network facilities could materially harm our revenues and impair our ability to conduct our operations. We provide telecommunications services that are critical to the operations of our customers. Notably, our voice service is essential to the orderly operation of our customers’ telecommunication systems because it enables competitive carriers to ensure that telephone calls are routed to the appropriate destinations, and our IP Transit and Ethernet services are critical to the ability of our customers to transmit data, which may be critical to their operation. Our network architecture is integral to our ability to process a high volume of traffic in a timely and effective manner. We could experience failures or interruptions of our network and services, or other problems in connection with our operations, as a result of: • damage to, or failure of, our network software or hardware or our connections and outsourced service arrangements with third parties; 31 Table of Contents • errors in the processing of data by our systems; • computer viruses or software defects or failures; • physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorism, natural disasters and similar events; • increased capacity demands or changes in systems requirements of our customers; • provisioning, installing and delivering these services; and • errors by our employees or third-party service providers. If we cannot adequately protect the ability of our network to perform consistently at a high level or otherwise fail to meet our customers’ expectations: • we may be unable to provide and bill for services; • we may experience damage to our reputation, which may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain customers for our existing services, and may also make it more difficult for us to market new services; • we may be subject to significant damages claims, under our contracts or otherwise; • our operating expenses or capital expenditures may increase as a result of corrective efforts that we must perform; • our customers may postpone or cancel subsequently scheduled work or reduce their use of our services; or • one or more of our significant contracts may be terminated early, or may not be renewed. Any of these consequences would adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We may not have sufficient redundant systems or backup facilities to allow us to receive and process traffic in the event of a loss of, or damage to, a network switch site or other network facilities. We could lose, or suffer damage to, a site in the event of power loss, natural disasters such as fires, earthquakes, floods and tornadoes, telecommunications failures, such as transmission cable cuts, or other similar events that could adversely affect our customers’ ability to access our services. Any such loss or damage could interrupt our operations, materially harm our revenues and growth and require significant cash expenditures to correct the failures caused by such loss or damage. Our international operations and investments expose us to risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have operations and investments outside of the United States that expose us to risks inherent in international operations. These include: • general economic, social and political conditions; • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those in the U.S.; • possible fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our international assets and investments; • the possibility that foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • difficulties and costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our investments and operations, with penalties for noncompliance, including loss of licenses and monetary fines; 32 Table of Contents • political or social instability and terrorism; • difficulties in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and • changes in U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. Failure to develop and introduce new services could affect our ability to compete in the industry. We routinely develop, test and introduce new communications services that are delivered over our communications network. These new services are intended to allow us to address new segments of the communications marketplace and to compete for additional customers. In certain instances, the introduction of new services requires the successful development of new technology. To the extent that upgrades of existing technology are required for the introduction of new services, the success of these upgrades may be dependent on reaching mutually acceptable terms with vendors and on vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner. In addition, new service offerings may not be widely accepted by our customers. If our new service offerings are not widely accepted by our customers, we may terminate those service offerings and we may be required to impair any assets or technology used to develop or offer those services. If we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of new services in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely affected. We have a limited operating history as a company and as a network for communications services providers. If we are unable to overcome the difficulties frequently encountered by early stage companies, our business could be materially harmed. We began our operations in February 2004. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of commercial development in new and rapidly evolving markets. This includes developing new services as we now provide services in many of the major and mid-size U.S. markets to most of the largest carriers. In order to overcome these risks and difficulties, we must, among other things: • generate sufficient usage of our network by our customers; • maintain and attract a sufficient number of customers to our network to achieve and sustain profitability; • execute our business strategy successfully, including successful development and provision of new services and integration of acquired operations; • manage our expanding operations; and • upgrade our technology, systems and network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic volume and to implement new features and functions. Our failure to overcome these risks and difficulties and the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by early stage companies could adversely affect our operating results which could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business or continue our operations. Economic conditions could cause a material reduction in the amount of traffic we carry on our network. We generate the majority of our revenue by charging carriers on a per minute of use or per megabit basis for the traffic we carry on our network. If weakening economic conditions result in decreased spending on telecommunications services (or a decrease in the subscriber base at our customers), the amount of traffic we carry on our network on behalf of our customers could decrease. Furthermore, financial pressure faced by our customers could result in mergers, acquisitions, liquidations or divestitures of all or a portion of our customers’ businesses, which in turn could result in a reduction in the use of our services. A reduction from these or other economic related causes could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 33 Table of Contents We could experience material variances in our revenues due to events outside of our control. We could experience material variances in our revenues due to events both under and outside of our control. For example, we could experience a material decline in the traffic that we process due to holidays or other seasonal variability, the timing of direct connects established between our customers, installation delays, the implementation of routing changes and traffic outages. If one or more of these events occur, especially with respect to one or more of our larger customers, it would cause a material decrease in our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to complete suitable acquisitions, or we may undertake acquisitions that could increase our costs or liabilities or be disruptive to our business. In the future, we may selectively pursue acquisitions to grow our business. We do not currently have any commitments, contracts or understandings to acquire any specific businesses or other material operations. We may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate or to finance acquisitions on terms that are satisfactory to us. See “We may be unable to obtain additional equity or debt financing to execute our business plan and, if additional financing is not available, we may need to limit, scale-back or cease our operations” below. We depended upon equity financings, as well as borrowing under a credit facility, to meet our cash requirements after we commenced operations in February 2004, neither of which may be available to us in the future on favorable terms, if at all. See “We may require substantial additional funds to execute our business plan and, if additional capital is not available, we may need to limit, scale-back or cease our operations” below. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to successfully negotiate the terms of an acquisition, finance the acquisition or, if the acquisition occurs, integrate the acquired business into our existing business. Our ability to sell our services depends in part on the quality of our support and service offerings, and our failure to offer high quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. Once our services are deployed, our customers depend on our support organization to resolve any issues. A high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our services. If we do not effectively assist carriers in deploying our services, succeed in helping carriers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, it will adversely affect our ability to sell our services. In addition, if we complete acquisitions, enter new geographic territories or expand our service offerings, it may become more difficult for us to provide these support services. As a result, our failure to maintain high quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. Security breaches also adversely affect our business and our customers’ confidential information or personal data, which could result in us being subject to legal liability and our reputation could be harmed. Our network equipment and facilities may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by computer hackers or similar disruptive problems. If unauthorized users gain access to our switch sites, network equipment or facilities or our databases, a security or privacy breach could result in an interruption of service or reduced quality of service, which could cause harm to our business and reputation and could result in a loss of customers. Any breach of security relating to our customers’ confidential information or personal data could result in legal liability to us and a reduction in use of our services or cancellation of our services, either of which could materially harm our business. Our personnel often receive highly confidential information from our customers that is stored in our files and on our systems. Similarly, we receive sensitive information that has historically been maintained as a matter of confidence with our customers. We currently have procedures in place to ensure the confidentiality of our customers’ information. However, our procedures to protect against the risk of inadvertent disclosure or unintentional breaches of security might fail to adequately protect information that we are obligated to keep confidential. We may not be successful 34 Table of Contents in adopting more effective systems for maintaining confidential information, so our exposure to the risk of disclosure of the confidential information of our customers may grow as we expand our business and increase the amount of information that we possess. If we fail to adequately maintain our customers’ confidential information, some of our customers could end their business relationships with us and we could be subject to legal liability. The failure of the third-party software and equipment we use in providing our voice services could cause interruptions or failures of our systems. We incorporate hardware, software and equipment and license technologies developed by third parties in providing our voice, IP Transit, Ethernet and hosted services. Our third-party vendors include, among others, Cisco, Juniper and Sonus Networks for our switches, Cisco and Oracle for our database systems and software, and various network services suppliers, such as AT&T, Verizon, Qwest, and Transaction Network Services and various competitive access providers, for our transport and Signaling System 7 services. As a result, our ability to provide services depends in part on the continued performance and support of the third-party services and products on which we rely and the respective vendors’ rights to license services and products to us, including without any third-party claims for intellectual property infringement. Notably, although we have only recently begun to use Sonus to supply voice switches and, therefore, our relationship and operating history with Sonus is limited, we have extensively deployed Sonus voice switches throughout our network. If any third-party services, equipment or products are not provided to us or experience failures or have defects, or the third parties that supply the services, equipment or products fail to provide adequate support due to financial problems they face or for any other reason, this could result in or exacerbate an interruption or failure of our systems or services. Any such failure or interruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results and expose us to claims by customers. Our business could be harmed by prolonged electrical power outages or shortages, increased costs of energy or general availability of electrical resources. Our network switch sites are susceptible to regional costs of power, electrical power shortages, planned or unplanned power outages caused by these shortages, such as those that occurred in the northeast region of the United States in 2003 and in the southeast region of the United States in 2005, and limitations of adequate power resources. We may not be able to pass on to our customers significant increases in the cost of power and power outages could disrupt the services we provide and reduce our revenues. Power outages, which last beyond our backup and alternative power arrangements, could harm our business and expose us to claims by customers. We generally do not have minimum revenue requirements in our contracts, which means that there is no limit to the potential adverse effect on our revenues from a decrease in the volume of traffic we handle. We earn revenues for the vast majority of the services that we provide on a per minute of use or per megabit basis. We generally do not have minimum revenue requirements in our contracts, which means that there is no limit to the potential adverse effect on our revenues from a decrease in the volume of traffic we handle. As a result, if our customers cease, or participants reduce, their usage of our services from their current levels, our revenues and results of operations will immediately suffer because there is no contractual requirement for the purchase of our services. For example, as discussed above, certain of our customers have migrated voice services to a competitor that has been offering our customers lower pricing in certain of our largest and other markets. See “—Our tandem services business faces competition from the traditional ILECs and increasing competition from certain other providers such as Level 3 Communications, Peerless Network and Hypercube, and we expect to compete with new entrants to the tandem services market ” above. If such migration continues, or our customers develop internal systems to address their traffic needs, including direct connections in the case of voice services, or if the cost of such transactions makes it impractical for a given carrier to use our services, we may experience a reduction in transaction volumes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. 35 Table of Contents Failure to comply with neutrality positioning could result in loss of significant business. We have positioned ourselves as a neutral third-party provider of services (that is, we generally do not compete with any of our customers in any of their core businesses). Our failure to continue to adhere to this neutrality positioning may result in lost sales or non-renewal of contracts, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. For example, we provide national transit services and tandem access services in the United States, each of which are long distance services and which can be viewed by some of our customers as being competitive with certain of the services they provide. Likewise, some competitors have claimed that our Ethernet services are not provided on a neutral basis. Our senior management is important to our customer relationships, and the loss of one or more of our senior managers could have a negative impact on our business. We believe that our success depends in part on the continued contributions of our senior management. We rely on our executive officers and senior management to generate business and execute programs successfully. In addition, the relationships and reputation that members of our management team have established and maintain with our customers and our regulators contribute to our ability to maintain good customer relations and affect regulatory changes. The loss of one or more key members of senior management could impair our ability to identify and secure new contracts and otherwise to manage our business, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We must recruit and retain skilled employees to succeed in our business. We believe that an integral part of our success is our ability to recruit and retain employees who have advanced skills related to the services that we provide or plan to provide and who work well with our customers in the regulated environment in which we operate. In particular, we must hire and retain employees with the technical expertise and industry knowledge necessary to maintain and continue to develop our operations and effectively manage our growing sales and marketing organization to ensure the development of new services and growth of our operations. Our future success depends on the ability of our sales and marketing organization to establish direct sales and to develop new services. The employees with the technical and other skills we require are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource in the foreseeable future. If we are unable to recruit and retain a sufficient number of these employees at all levels, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be negatively impacted. We may be unable to obtain additional equity or debt financing to execute our business plan and, if additional financing is not available, we may need to limit, scale-back or cease our operations. We depended upon equity financings, as well as borrowings under a credit facility, to meet our cash requirements after we commenced our operations in February 2004. We expect to meet our cash requirements for the next 12 months through a combination of cash flow from operations, existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. If our cash requirements vary materially from those currently planned, or if we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from our business, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. Additional equity or debt financing may result in the incurrence of additional leverage or dilution to our stockholders. In addition, we may seek additional funding in the future through public or private equity and debt financings. Additional funds may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may not be able to execute our business plan and could face the following or other risks: • we may not be able to expand or acquire complementary businesses; • we may not be able to continue to meet customer demand for service quality, availability and competitive pricing; 36 Table of Contents • we may be forced to reduce our operations; • we may not be able to develop new services or otherwise respond to changing business conditions or competitive pressures; and • we may not be able to adequately maintain or upgrade our systems and technology. As a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected and we may be required to significantly curtail or cease our operations. If we do not maintain or generate significant revenues, we may not remain profitable. Although we achieved net income of approximately $27.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, we expect to incur significant future expenses, particularly with respect to the development of new services, deployment of additional infrastructure, expansion in strategic markets and additional legal, regulatory and compliance costs. To remain profitable, we must continue to increase the usage of our services by our customers and attract new customers. We must also deliver superior service to our customers, mitigate the effects of consolidation and develop and commercialize new products and services. We may not succeed in these activities and fail to generate revenues that are significant or large enough to sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from fees that we charge our customers based on their usage. Therefore, a decline in their usage or the prices we charge for our services could materially impact our future revenues and profits. A substantial portion of our cash at December 31, 2011 was invested in two money market mutual funds. As of December 31, 2011, we had $78.8 million invested in two money market mutual funds. Due to the short duration of the cash invested, we believe that we do not have any material exposure to changes in the fair value of our cash investments as a result of changes in interest rates. However, since the share price of a money market fund is typically $1, the interest rate paid on the investment or the yield, is typically the predominant measure of the return we receive. The yield may be affected by the default of any securities the fund invests in or changes in the value of investments caused by changes in interest rates; if these factors are severe, the share price of a fund could drop, which could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and ability to operate. The SEC, under the authority of the Investment Company Act of 1940, regulates money market funds to minimize these risks. If we do not adapt to rapid technological change in the communications industry, we could lose customers or market share. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new service offerings. Significant technological changes could make our technology and services obsolete, too costly or inefficient on a relative basis. We must adapt to our rapidly changing market by continually improving the features, functionality, reliability and responsiveness of our services to meet changing customer needs. We cannot ensure that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way. Our failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. Many existing and emerging companies are providing, or propose to provide, competing services using new technologies. Furthermore, the increased adoption of IP switching technologies could increase the competition we face from direct connections. See “—The market for our services is competitive and increased adoption of IP switching technologies could increase the competition we face from direct connections” above. Our future revenues and profits will depend on our ability to provide value added service(s) to competitive carriers. If we are unable to provide these service(s), whether as a result of technology changes or otherwise, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. 37 Table of Contents Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology, processes and methods, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, advisors and others. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any rights against such party. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Others may allege that we are infringing upon their intellectual property, forcing us to expend substantial resources in resulting litigation, the outcome of which would be uncertain. Any unfavorable outcome of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results. If any parties successfully claim that our creation, offer for sale, sale, import or use of technologies infringes upon their intellectual property rights, we might be forced to incur expenses to litigate the claims, pay damages, potentially including treble damages, if we are found to have willfully infringed such parties’ patents or copyrights. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in litigation, a court could issue a permanent injunction preventing us from operating our network, offering our services or using certain of our systems for the life of the patent that we have been deemed to have infringed. Litigation concerning patents and other forms of intellectual property and proprietary technologies, is becoming more widespread and can be protracted and expensive, and can distract management and other key personnel from performing their duties for us. Any legal action against us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to the affected methods, processes, products and services could, in addition to subjecting us to potential liability for damages, require us to obtain a license in order to continue to operate our network, use the affected systems or market the affected services. Any license required under any patent may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, some licenses may be nonexclusive, and therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively operate our network or market some of our technology and products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues or achieve profitability and possibly prevent us from generating revenue sufficient to sustain our operations. From time to time we have received and we may in the future receive notices or inquiries from other companies regarding our services or the manner in which we operate our network suggesting that we may be infringing a pre-existing patent or we need to license use of their patents to avoid infringement. Such notices may, among other things, threaten litigation against us. As we have in the past, we will actively review the request and determine whether there is any validity to the request and seek to resolve the matter. Litigation over patent rights and other intellectual property rights is not uncommon with respect to network technologies, and sometimes involves patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenues and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence. There can be no assurance that holders of patents will not pursue any claim against us in the future if they believe their patents are being infringed by our network or service offerings. Risk Factors Related To Our Common Stock Our common stock has only traded since November 2, 2007 and our stock price is likely to be volatile. Our common stock has only traded since November 2, 2007. The market prices for securities of telecommunications companies have historically been volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • the passage of various laws and governmental regulations governing communications-related services and internet-related services; 38 Table of Contents • a decrease in the amount of traffic we carry or the rates we charge for such traffic, whether from competition or otherwise; • the failure to develop new services or successfully manage our growth strategy; • the failure of or disruption to our physical infrastructure or services; • conditions or trends in the internet, technology and communications industries; • the addition or departure of any key employees; • the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage of our common stock; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations of us by any research analyst that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; • litigation involving ourselves, including our granted or any future patents, or our general industry or both; • investors’ general perception of us, our services, the economy and general market conditions; • developments or disputes concerning our patents or other proprietary rights; • the announcement of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; and • other factors discussed within these “Risk Factors”. If any of these factors cause an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition, the price of our common stock could fall. In addition, public announcements by our competitors regarding, among other things, their performance, strategy, accounting practices, or legal problems could cause the price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. Changes in our capital structure and level of indebtedness and the terms of such indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position. We currently do not have any debt. However, we may issue debt in the future or increase our level of indebtedness from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions. Future consolidated indebtedness levels could materially affect our business by: • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to interest payments on such indebtedness, and thereby not available for other purposes; • materially limiting or impairing our ability to obtain further financing; • reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; and • further limiting our ability to pay dividends. In addition, any credit agreement may limit our ability to enter into various transactions. If we were to default on any of our debt obligations, or if we were unable to obtain necessary liquidity, our obligation to repay such debt would become due and payable immediately and our business could be adversely affected. Anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law and in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could diminish the value of our common stock and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult or could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination 39 Table of Contents with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable or make it more difficult for stockholders to replace directors even if stockholders consider it beneficial to do so. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares to thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of the stock to elect some directors; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2 / 3 % of the total votes eligible to be cast in the election of directors; • require that vacancies on the Board of Directors, including newly created directorships, be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • authorize the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval, subject to the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may inhibit potential acquisition bids for us. Section 203 regulates corporate acquisitions and limits the ability of a holder of 15% or more of our stock from acquiring the rest of our stock. Under Delaware law a corporation may opt out of the anti-takeover provisions, but we do not intend to do so. These provisions may prevent a stockholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 40 Table of Contents 