ITEM 1A. Risk Factors YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW BEFORE MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. OUR BUSINESS, PROSPECTS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR OPERATING RESULTS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY ANY OF THESE RISKS. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE DUE TO ANY OF THESE RISKS AND YOU MAY LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT. IN ASSESSING THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW, YOU SHOULD ALSO REFER TO THE OTHER INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT, INCLUDING OUR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE RELATED NOTES, BEFORE DECIDING TO PURCHASE ANY SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK. We operate in an emerging and rapidly evolving market, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. Our industry is relatively new and is rapidly evolving. As a result, our current business and future prospects are difficult to evaluate. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we encounter as an early leader in a rapidly evolving market. Some of these risks relate to our potential inability to: • effectively manage our business and technology, • continue to provide consistently high levels of service quality as we expand the scale of our business, • develop new services that complement our existing business, • acquire additional customers and maintain current customers in a highly competitive environment, • market our services to our customers due to regulatory rules governing reassignment of payments, which could affect our customers’ ability to collect fees for services provided by our affiliated radiologists, • effectively manage the integration of companies that we may acquire in the future, • manage growth in personnel and operations, • effectively manage our medical liability risk, and • recruit and retain radiologists and other key personnel. We may not be able to successfully address these and the other risks described in this report. Failure to adequately do so would harm our business and cause our operating results to suffer. Furthermore, our early operating history resulted in historical revenue growth rates that we will likely not be able to repeat, and therefore will not be indicative of our future results of operations. As a result, the price of our common stock could decline. 8 Table of Contents The market in which we participate is competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future, which will make it more difficult for us to sell our services and has resulted and may continue to result in pricing pressure, reduced revenue and reduced market share. The market for professional radiology services and business process services is competitive and rapidly changing, barriers to entry are relatively low, and with the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to continue to intensify in the future. In fact, in recent periods we have experienced an increase in competition from regional providers of services similar to ours. If we fail to compete effectively, our operating results will be harmed. Some of our principal competitors, including our largest competitor, VRC, offer their services at a lower price, which has resulted and may continue to result in pricing pressure and lost customers. If we are unable to maintain our current pricing or effectively revise the way we compensate our affiliated radiologists, our operating results could be negatively impacted. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition could result in reduced revenue and reduced profits. In addition, if companies larger than we are enter the market through internal expansion or acquisition of one of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. These competitors could have established customer relationships and greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources than we do, and may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their services. This competition could harm our ability to sell our services, which may lead to lower prices, reduced revenue and, ultimately, reduced market share. We may be unable to successfully expand our services beyond the off-hours emergency radiology market. A key part of our strategy to offset the moderation of growth in our provision of preliminary reads involves providing final reads and sub-specialty services; however, our efforts to provide these final reads and sub-specialty services, or any other services beyond our current services offerings and radiology solutions, may not result in significant revenue growth for us. The markets for final and sub-specialty reads are more complex than the market for preliminary reads. If we are to be successful in these markets, we will be required to develop, execute and maintain new sales and marketing efforts, as well as new information technology capabilities. In addition, our final and sub-specialty service offering requires our customers to navigate the billing and collecting rules related to the reads our affiliated physicians provide—including the billing reassignment rules and the rules regarding where to bill for such services—rules that are often cumbersome and difficult for our customers. As a result, our efforts to expand our services into these new markets may divert management resources from existing operations and require us to commit significant financial resources to an unproven business. If we are unable to effectively address the challenges that these new service offerings present, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If our customers perceive that we are offering services that are competitive to theirs, some of our customers may terminate their agreements with us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. Historically, some radiology groups have been concerned that teleradiology companies may potentially become competitive with them for their business. Our core mission has always been to work with and to support our radiology group customers and we are committed to acting consistently with our mission of supporting our radiology group customers and not competing with them. Despite this, as the largest teleradiology company in the industry, we are particularly vulnerable to the potential that there could be speculation or misperception by some radiology groups that we may become competitive with their business, which may result in some customers choosing to discontinue doing business with us. If this were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents If our arrangements with our affiliated radiologists or our customers are found to violate state laws prohibiting the corporate practice of medicine or fee splitting, our business, financial condition and our ability to operate in those states could be adversely impacted. The laws of many states, including states in which our customers are located, prohibit us from exercising control over the medical judgments or decisions of physicians and from engaging in certain financial arrangements, such as splitting professional fees with physicians. These laws and their interpretations vary from state to state and are enforced by state courts and regulatory authorities, each with broad discretion. We enter into agreements with our affiliated radiologists pursuant to which the radiologists render professional medical services using their independent judgment and discretion with no influence by NightHawk. In addition, we enter into agreements with our customers to deliver professional radiology interpretation services in exchange for a service fee. We structure our relationships with our affiliated radiologists and our customers in a manner that we believe is in compliance with prohibitions against the corporate practice of medicine and fee splitting. If any state regulatory or similar authority determines that we are engaged in the corporate practice of medicine or that the payment of service fees to us by our customers constitutes fee splitting, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties and could be required to restructure or terminate the applicable contractual arrangements. A determination that these arrangements violate state statutes, or our inability to successfully restructure our relationships with our affiliated radiologists to comply with these statutes, could eliminate customers located in certain states from the market for our services, which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. Our growth strategy depends on our ability to recruit and retain qualified radiologists. If we are unable to do so, our future growth would be limited and our business and operating results would be harmed. Our success is dependent upon our continuing ability to recruit and retain qualified radiologists. An inability to recruit and retain radiologists would have a material adverse effect on our ability to service our customers and grow our revenues and would adversely affect our results of operations. We face competition for radiologists from other healthcare providers, including radiology groups, teleradiology companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. If we are unable to effectively recruit and retain qualified radiologists, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If our affiliated radiologists are characterized as employees, we would be subject to employment and withholding liabilities and may be subject to prohibitions against the corporate practice of medicine. We structure our relationships with our affiliated radiologists in a manner that we believe results in an independent contractor relationship, not an employee relationship. An independent contractor is generally distinguished from an employee by his or her degree of autonomy and independence in providing services. A high degree of autonomy and independence is generally indicative of a contractor relationship, while a high degree of control is generally indicative of an employment relationship. Although we believe that our affiliated radiologists are properly characterized as independent contractors, tax or other regulatory authorities may in the future challenge our characterization of these relationships. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) (or other state, federal or foreign courts) were to determine that our affiliated radiologists are employees, and not independent contractors, we would be required to withhold income taxes, to withhold and pay social security, Medicare and similar taxes and to pay unemployment and other related payroll taxes, would be liable for unpaid past taxes by our affiliated radiologists and may be subject to penalties, all of which may materially harm our business and operating results. In connection with its audit of our tax filing for the 2006 tax year, the IRS reviewed our characterization of our affiliated radiologists as independent contractors. As a result of that review, we received a letter on August 27, 2009 stating that no changes to the tax as reported would be made and no further examination of this matter will be made by the IRS. However we cannot provide assurances that future audits would be consistent with this conclusion. If, in the future, the IRS were to reach a different conclusion, we believe we could successfully modify our relationships with our affiliated radiologists to address such an outcome. However, if we were unable to successfully implement this new relationship with our affiliated radiologists, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents If our customers terminate their agreements with us or if our customers’ businesses materially decline, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Our revenue is derived primarily from fee-for-service billings to our radiology group customers. Our agreements with our customers generally provide for one-year terms and automatically renew for successive one-year terms unless terminated by our customers or us upon 30 days prior notice. Our customers may elect not to renew their contracts with us, they may seek to renegotiate the terms of their contracts or they may choose to reduce or eliminate our services. For example, due to a number of competitive factors, we saw an 11% decrease in read volumes that resulted from the cumulative impact of customers that we lost over the preceding 12 months. If our arrangements with our customers are canceled, or are not renewed or replaced with other arrangements having at least as favorable terms, whether due to competitive factors or not, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if our radiology group customers’ agreements with the hospitals that they serve are terminated, or if our radiology group customers’ businesses begin to decline for other reasons (such as a material increase in the rate of uninsured patients or uncollectible accounts), our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Substantially all of our business services revenue is generated from St. Paul Radiology, P.A. under a multiyear business services agreement. In 2009, we generated $16.9 million in revenue from St. Paul Radiology, P.A., representing 10.4% of our revenue. If the business of St. Paul Radiology, P.A. were to decline significantly or if St. Paul Radiology, P.A. were to experience a material increase in uncollectible accounts, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. St. Paul Radiology, P.A. has indicated that it believes that we are in breach of certain of our obligations under our agreements with it and that, as a result of such alleged breaches, it is entitled to terminate the agreements and it has incurred material damages which St. Paul Radiology claims could exceed $70 million. We believe such claims of breach and allegations of damages are without merit, that we have fulfilled all of our obligations under the agreements and that the agreements may not be terminated by St. Paul Radiology. However, there is always inherent uncertainty of any litigation or arbitration proceeding. If such claims of breach and related damages are proven to be true and the dispute resolution process does not achieve a result favorable to us, we may be required to remedy the alleged breach, pay damages, and/or the agreements may be terminated resulting in the loss of the associated future revenue and profit. Termination of our agreements with St. Paul Radiology, P.A. or a reduction in the revenue and related profits received under the agreements would have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, termination of our agreements with St. Paul Radiology or a reduction in the revenue and related profits received under the agreements could cause our total leverage ratio under our credit agreement to exceed 2.5, which in turn would trigger a mandatory principal repayment by us equal to approximately 50% of our cash flow for such year, or 4.0, which could result in the acceleration of our obligation to repay all of our borrowings under our credit agreement. See Item 7— “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Financial condition and liquidity” of this Annual Report for more information. As an example, if we did not have the revenue and related profits generated by our agreements with St. Paul Radiology, P.A. in 2009, our total leverage ratio would have exceeded 2.5 (but would have been less than 4.0) and we would have been required to repay a portion of the principal amount of the term loan. If we fail to meet either of our total leverage ratio tests in the future, whether as a result of a termination of our agreements with St. Paul Radiology, P.A. or otherwise, and we are required to make a mandatory repayment of a portion of the principal of our term loan, or if our obligations under our term loan are accelerated as a result of our default, our financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. We have been subject to medical liability claims and may become subject to additional claims or other harmful lawsuits, which could cause us to incur significant expenses and may require us to pay significant damages if not covered by insurance. Our business entails the risk of medical liability claims against our affiliated radiologists and us. We or our affiliated radiologists are subject to ongoing medical liability claims in the ordinary course of business. In addition, in some instances, these medical liability proceedings include allegations by plaintiffs that our business 11 Table of Contents practices violate the appropriate standard of care and that, as a result, a court should institute punitive damages against us. Although we maintain medical liability insurance for ourselves and our affiliated radiologists with coverage that we believe is appropriate in light of the risks attendant to our business, successful medical liability claims could result in substantial damage awards which exceed the limits of our insurance coverage. In addition, medical liability insurance is expensive and insurance premiums may increase significantly in the future, particularly as we continue to grow our final and sub-specialty services. As a result, adequate medical liability insurance may not be available to our affiliated radiologists or us in the future at acceptable costs or at all. Any claims made against us, including any claims that our business practices violate the standard of care, that are not fully covered by insurance could be costly to defend against, result in substantial damage awards against us and divert the attention of our management and our affiliated radiologists from our operations, which could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. In addition, any claims might adversely affect our business or reputation. In addition to medical liability claims, we may also become subject to other litigation proceedings that, if not fully covered by insurance, could be costly to defend against, result in substantial damage awards against us and divert the attention of our management. For example, if our dispute with St. Paul Radiology, P.A. results in a litigation proceeding, we will incur significant legal costs and may be required to remedy the alleged breach, pay damages, or both. Although we believe the chances of such outcomes are remote, there is always inherent uncertainty of any litigation or arbitration proceeding. We indemnify our radiology group customers and hospital customers against damages or liabilities that they may incur as a result of the actions of our affiliated radiologists or us. We also indemnify some of our affiliated radiologists against medical liability claims. Our indemnification obligations are typically payable only to the extent that damages incurred are not covered by insurance. We have also assumed and succeeded to substantially all of the obligations of the businesses that we have acquired. Medical liability claims may be asserted against us for events that occurred prior to these acquisitions. We are also dependent upon the financial health of our medical liability insurance provider. Currently our medical malpractice provider is Chartis, Inc., an insurance subsidiary of American International Group (“AIG”). Recently, AIG has received significant U.S. government financial support. We believe Chartis is adequately collateralized, however we cannot guarantee its financial health. Should AIG or Chartis not have the funds available to cover claims made against us or our radiologists, our business, the financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to patient or customer data, we may face liabilities and our system may be perceived as not being secure, causing customers to curtail or stop using our services, which could lead to a decline in revenues. We are required to implement administrative, physical and technological safeguards to ensure the security of the patient data that we create, process or store. These safeguards may fail to ensure the security of patient or customer data, thereby subjecting us to liability, including civil monetary penalties and possible criminal penalties. If our security measures are breached, whether as a result of third party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to patient or customer data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. Enforcement of federal and state laws regarding privacy and security of patient information may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operations. The use and disclosure of certain healthcare information by healthcare providers and their business associates has come under increasing public scrutiny. Federal standards under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, establish rules concerning how individually-identifiable health 12 Table of Contents information may be used, disclosed and protected. Historically, state law has governed confidentiality issues and HIPAA preserves these laws to the extent they are more protective of a patient’s privacy or provide the patient with more access to his or her health information. As a result of the implementation of the HIPAA regulations, many states have adopted or may adopt revisions to their existing laws and regulations that may be more stringent or burdensome than the federal HIPAA provisions. We must operate our business in a manner that complies with all applicable laws, both federal and state and that does not jeopardize the ability of our customers to comply with all applicable laws to which they are subject. We believe that our operations are consistent with these legal standards. Nevertheless, these laws and regulations present risks for healthcare providers and their business associates that provide services to patients in multiple states. Because few of the state laws and regulations have been interpreted by government regulators or courts, our interpretations and activities may be challenged. If a challenge to our activities is successful, it could have an adverse effect on our operations, may require us to forgo relationships with customers in certain states, and may restrict the territory available to us to expand our business. In addition, even if our interpretations of HIPAA and other federal and state laws and regulations are correct, we could be held liable for unauthorized uses or disclosures of patient information as a result of inadequate systems and controls to protect this information or due to the theft of information by unauthorized computer programmers who penetrate our network security. Future changes in healthcare regulation are difficult to predict and may constrain or require us to restructure our operations, which could negatively impact our business and operating results. The healthcare industry is heavily regulated and subject to frequent changes in governing laws and regulations as well as to evolving administrative interpretations. Our ability to operate profitably will depend in part upon the ability of us, our affiliated radiologists, and our customers and their radiologists to continue to operate effectively in whatever health care environment we might find ourselves in the future. Although it remains unclear what changes to our healthcare system may come under the healthcare reform packages currently being debated in the U.S. Congress, the proposed reforms could adversely affect the overall imaging market and our customers by, among other things, reducing the growth in, or overall number of, diagnostic imaging procedures performed, and the payments to radiology groups and facilities for such procedures. Although we believe our direct exposure to potential reforms will be limited due to the nature of our services being principally contracting with radiology groups for outsourced interpretations, any reduction in demand for diagnostic imaging, as well as reduced reimbursement to groups and facilities that utilize our services could in turn adversely affect our business. Our business could also be adversely affected by regulatory changes at the federal or state level that impose new requirements for licensing, new restrictions on reimbursement for medical services by government programs, new pretreatment certification requirements for patients seeking radiology procedures, or new limitations on services that can be performed by us. In addition, federal, state and local legislative bodies have adopted and continue to consider medical cost containment legislation and regulations that have restricted or may restrict reimbursement to entities providing services in the healthcare industry and referrals by physicians to entities in which the physicians have a direct or indirect financial interest or other relationship. For example, Medicare has adopted a regulation that limits reimbursement for the technical component when multiple diagnostic tests are performed during a single session at medical facilities other than hospitals. Any of these or future reimbursement regulations or policies could limit the number of diagnostic tests our customers order and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we monitor legal and regulatory developments and modify our operations from time to time as the regulatory environment changes, we may not be able to adapt our operations to address every new regulation, and such regulations may adversely affect our business. In addition, although we believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable federal and state laws, our business operations have not been scrutinized or assessed by judicial or regulatory agencies. We cannot assure you that a review of our business by courts or regulatory authorities would not result in a determination that adversely affects our operations or that the healthcare regulatory environment will not change in a way that will restrict our operations. 13 Table of Contents Our operating results are subject to seasonal fluctuation, which makes our results difficult to predict and could cause our performance to fall short of quarterly expectations. Historically, we have experienced increased demand for and revenues from our services during the second and third fiscal quarters of each year. We believe that these increases are a result of increased outdoor and transportation activities and a greater utilization of service hours during the summer months. During the first and fourth quarters of each fiscal year, when weather conditions are colder for a large portion of the United States, we have historically experienced relatively lower revenues than those experienced during the second and third quarters. We may or may not continue to experience this or other seasonality in the future. These seasonal factors may lead to unpredictable variations in our quarterly operating results and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additionally, our ability to schedule adequate radiologist coverage during the seasonal period of increased demand for our services may affect our ability to provide appropriate turnaround times in our services to clients. Interruptions or delays in our information systems or in network or related services provided by third-party suppliers could impair the delivery of our services and harm our business. Our operations depend on the uninterrupted performance of our information systems, which are substantially dependent on systems we have developed internally since our inception as well as systems provided by third parties over which we have little control. Failure to maintain reliable information systems, or disruptions in our information systems could cause disruptions and delays in our business operations which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on broadband connections provided by third party suppliers to route digital images from hospitals in the United States to our facilities in Australia, Switzerland and the United States. Any interruption in the functioning of our internal systems or in the availability of the network connections between the hospitals and our affiliated physicians (regardless of location) would reduce our revenue and profits. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause permanent harm to our reputation and brand and could cause current or potential customers to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors. Because our customers may use our services for critical healthcare services, any system failures could result in damage to our customers’ businesses and reputation. These customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses, and our agreements with our customers do not limit the amount of compensation that they may receive. Any claim for compensation, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time consuming and costly for us to resolve. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption, including damage and/or interruption due to earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, break-ins, sabotage, and acts of vandalism. We do not carry business interruption insurance to protect us against losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. Finally, from time to time, we upgrade, replace or expand our information systems. If we fail to successfully manage these activities, we could experience disruptions and delays in our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Hospital privileging requirements or physician licensure laws may limit our market, and the loss of hospital privileges or state medical licenses held by our affiliated radiologists could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Each of our affiliated radiologists must be granted privileges to practice at each hospital from which the radiologist receives radiological images and must hold a license in good standing to practice medicine in the state in which the hospital is located. The requirements for obtaining and maintaining hospital privileges and state medical licenses vary significantly among hospitals and states. If a hospital or state restricts or impedes the ability of physicians located outside of the United States to obtain privileges or a license to practice medicine at that hospital or in that state, the market for our services could be reduced. In addition, any loss of existing 14 Table of Contents privileges or medical licenses held by our affiliated radiologists could impair our ability to serve our existing customers and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of the hospital privileges held by our affiliated radiologists were issued pursuant to a standard promulgated by The Joint Commission that allows the local hospital to rely upon the credentialing and privileging processes performed by us with respect to our affiliated radiologists, a process called “privileging by proxy”. Essentially, because we are a Joint Commission-accredited facility, other Joint Commission-accredited facilities can rely on our processes as opposed to duplicating work already performed in accordance with approved standards. However, over the past few years, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, has increasingly expressed concerns regarding this ability for hospitals to rely on the processes of another institution. In response to the CMS position, The Joint Commission has recently announced that the standards allowing this practice will expire in July 2010. In light of the planned changes adopted by The Joint Commission, we are working with our customers that have historically relied upon these standards to institute new credentialing processes that will help them comply with the new standards once they become effective. We anticipate that, because of the additional workload that will be inherent in any new process that our customers may adopt, these customers will seek to credential and privilege fewer physicians than are currently privileged at those sites. This may require us to change how we schedule the services of our affiliated radiologists which could, in turn, negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Medicare and Medicaid rules governing reassignment of payments could affect our customers’ ability to collect fees for services provided by our affiliated radiologists and our ability to market our services to our customers. The majority of our customers are radiology practices. These customers, and not us, typically bill and receive payments from Medicare and/or Medicaid for professional services which were either performed by our affiliated radiologists that are U.S.-based or performed by the customer’s radiologist after submission of the preliminary reads provided by our affiliated radiologists. Medicare and Medicaid generally prohibit a physician who performs a covered medical service from “reassigning” to anyone else (including to other physicians) the performing physician’s right to receive payment directly from Medicare or Medicaid, except in certain circumstances. We believe that the services provided by our affiliated radiologists satisfy one or more of the exceptions to this prohibition, but the various Medicare carriers and state Medicaid authorities may interpret these exceptions differently than we do. Because Medicare and Medicaid payments may comprise a significant portion of the total payments received by our customers for the services of our U.S.-based affiliated radiologists, if it were determined that we do not qualify for an exception, our customers could be prohibited from billing Medicare and/or Medicaid for the services of our U.S.-based affiliated radiologists and this would cause a material adverse effect on our ability to market our services and on our business and results of operations. Future laws or regulations, moreover, may require that we bill Medicare or Medicaid directly for new services we provide to our customers. Should this occur, we would either be required to forgo business with such customers or be required to design, develop and implement an appropriate recordkeeping and billing system to bill Medicare and Medicaid. Medicare reimbursement rules currently provide that the proper Medicare carrier to pay physician claims is the Medicare carrier for the region in which the physician or practice providing the service is located, rather than the Medicare carrier for the region in which the patient receiving the services is located. Many of our affiliated radiologists are located in a Medicare region that is different from the Medicare region in which the patient and treating hospital are located. Since it is incumbent on our customers to file with the proper Medicare carrier in order to receive payment, it may be necessary for our customers to enroll with additional Medicare carriers in order to properly submit claims for reimbursement. To the extent that our customers are unwilling or unable to do so, they may be unwilling to use our services unless we were to submit the claims. Should this occur, we would either be required to forgo business with such customers or be required to design, develop and implement 15 Table of Contents an appropriate recordkeeping and billing system to bill Medicare and Medicaid. If we are unable to effectively address these challenges, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes in the rules and regulations governing Medicare’s and Medicaid’s payment for medical services could affect our revenues, particularly with respect to final reads. Although most reads we provide are preliminary reads rather than final reads, we are providing an increasing number of final and sub-specialty reads. Cost containment pressures on Medicare and Medicaid could result in a reduction in the amount that the government will pay for these reads, which could cause pricing pressure on our services. Should that occur, we could be required to lower our prices, or our customers could elect to provide the reads themselves or obtain such services from one of our competitors, and not utilize the services of our affiliated radiologists, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to less favorable levels of payment based upon third party payor fee schedules. Many patients are covered by some form of private or government health insurance or other third party payment program. Third party payors generally establish fee schedules or other payment authorization methods for various procedures that govern which procedures will be reimbursed by the third party payors and the amount of reimbursement. To the extent that such schedules impact the rates at which third party payors are willing to pay the healthcare providers with whom we contract to provide imaging services, we are indirectly impacted by such fee schedules. However, if we were to negotiate direct payment arrangements with third party payors in the future, we would be directly impacted by such schedules. In addition, there is no guarantee that Medicare, state Medicaid programs, or commercial third party payors will continue to cover professional radiology services. For example, in some states, the Medicaid program budgets have been either cut or funds diverted to other programs, which have resulted in limiting the enrollment of participants. This has resulted in an increasing number of bankruptcies and difficulty in collecting accounts receivable at hospitals in certain states. Any reduction or elimination in coverage for our services could adversely impact our business. Our business could be materially affected if a U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Office of Inspector General study results in a recommendation that Medicare only pay for reads performed contemporaneously in an emergency room setting. In its Fiscal Year 2009 Work Plan, the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services Office of Inspector General, or HHS-OIG, indicated that it would conduct a study and issue a report assessing the appropriateness of Medicare billings for diagnostic tests performed in hospital emergency rooms. Part of the assessment may include a determination as to whether the tests were read contemporaneously with the patient’s treatment. It is possible that, in the final report, the HHS-OIG could recommend to CMS that it change its reimbursement rules to clearly indicate that CMS will only pay for reads performed contemporaneously with a patient’s treatment by a physician located within the United States. If CMS were to adopt this recommendation, final reads may no longer be eligible for reimbursement if performed by a physician other than the one who performed the preliminary read. In turn, if our customers were no longer able to be reimbursed for certain final reads, our customers may seek alternative arrangements for the performance of their preliminary reads, which could adversely impact our business. Changes in the healthcare industry or litigation reform could reduce the number of diagnostic radiology procedures ordered by physicians, which could result in a decline in the demand for our services, pricing pressure and decreased revenue. Changes in the healthcare industry directed at controlling healthcare costs and perceived over-utilization of diagnostic radiology procedures could reduce the volume of radiological procedures performed. For example, in an effort to contain increasing imaging costs, as part of the overall healthcare reform efforts, the U.S. government 16 Table of Contents is considering what some managed care organizations and private insurers have already adopted—namely, instituting pre-authorization policies which require physicians to pre-clear orders for diagnostic radiology procedures before those procedures can be performed. If pre-clearance protocols are broadly instituted by Medicare and/or throughout the healthcare industry, the volume of radiological procedures could decrease, resulting in pricing pressure and declining demand for our services. In addition, it is often alleged that many physicians order diagnostic procedures even when the procedures may have limited clinical utility in large part to establish a record for defense in the event of a medical liability claim. Changes in tort law could reduce the number of radiological procedures ordered for this purpose and therefore reduce the total number of radiological procedures performed each year, which could harm our operating results. We may not have adequate intellectual property rights in our brand, which could limit our ability to enforce such rights. Our success depends in part upon our ability to market our services under the “NightHawk” brand. However, we believe that the term “NightHawk” cannot be afforded trademark protection as it is a generic term used to describe the provision of off-hours radiology services. Other businesses may have prior rights in the brand names that we market under or in similar names, which could limit or prevent our ability to use these marks, or to prevent others from using similar marks. If we are unable to prevent others from using our brand names, or if others prohibit us from using them, our revenue could be adversely affected. Even if we are able to protect our intellectual property rights in such brands, we could incur significant costs in doing so. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights in our workflow technology could impair its value and our competitive advantage. We rely heavily on our proprietary workflow technology to distribute radiological images to the appropriately licensed and privileged radiologist best able to provide the necessary clinical insight in the least amount of turnaround time. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors may gain access to our technology, and our business may be harmed. We currently do not hold any patents with respect to our technology. Although we have filed an application for a patent covering our workflow technology, we may be unable to obtain patent protection for this technology. In addition, any patents we may obtain may be challenged by third parties. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using or misappropriating our intellectual property. We may in the future become subject to intellectual property rights claims, which could harm our business and operating results. The information technology industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, trademarks and copyrights and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As an example, we are aware that on July 31, 2007, Merge eMed, Inc., or Merge, filed a complaint against another teleradiology provider, VRC, alleging that VRC has infringed on certain of Merge’s patents relating to teleradiology. In connection with that litigation, VRC filed a Request for Reexamination with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or US PTO, which asks the US PTO to re-examine the validity of the patents at issue. Based solely upon publicly available information from VRC, we understand that, in August 2008, the US PTO ruled invalid all of the claims in the patents upon which Merge had sued VRC. While we are not currently a party to any intellectual property litigation, if Merge or another third party asserts that our technology violates that third-party’s proprietary rights, or if a court holds that our technology violates such rights, we may be required to re-engineer our technology, obtain licenses from third parties to continue using our technology without substantial re-engineering or remove the infringing functionality or feature. In addition, we may incur substantial costs defending any such claim. We may also become subject to damage awards, which could cause us to incur additional losses and harm our financial position. Monitoring potential infringement of and defending or asserting our intellectual property rights may entail significant expense. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary 17 Table of Contents rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of this team may prevent us from implementing our business plan in a timely manner. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers, particularly David Engert, our President & Chief Executive Officer, Tim Murnane, our Chief Operating Officer, and David Sankaran, our Chief Financial Officer. The loss of any of these executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. The search for replacements for any of our executives could be time consuming and could distract our management team from the day-to-day operations of our business. If we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results in an accurate or timely manner, prevent fraud or comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which may harm our business and affect the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports in a timely manner and to prevent fraud. We cannot assure you that we will maintain an effective system of internal controls in the future. If we fail to adequately staff and train our accounting and finance personnel to meet the demands of operating as a public company, including the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or fail to maintain adequate internal controls, any resulting material weakness in internal controls could prevent our management from concluding the internal controls are effective and impair our ability to prevent material misstatements in our financial statements, which could cause our business to suffer. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements in a timely manner or prevent fraud may negatively affect the trading price of our stock or result in stockholder litigation. We may be unable to enforce non-compete agreements with our affiliated radiologists. Our independent contractor agreements with our affiliated radiologists typically provide that the radiologists may not compete with us for a period of time, typically ranging from 180 days to one year, after the agreements terminate. These covenants not to compete are enforceable to varying degrees from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In most jurisdictions, a covenant not to compete will be enforced only to the extent that it is necessary to protect the legitimate business interest of the party seeking enforcement, that it does not unreasonably restrain the party against whom enforcement is sought and that it is not contrary to the public interest. This determination is made based upon all the facts and circumstances of the specific case at the time enforcement is sought. It is unclear whether our interests will be viewed by courts as the type of protected business interest that would permit us to enforce a non-competition covenant against the radiologists. A determination that these provisions are not enforceable could have a material adverse effect on us. If we acquire any companies or technologies in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our operating results. An element of our strategy is to pursue strategic acquisitions that are complementary to our business or offer us other strategic benefits. Acquisitions in which we may engage involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties or delays in integrating physician compensation models, • difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services and personnel, • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations, • risk of entering new markets, • potential write-offs of acquired assets, 18 Table of Contents • potential loss of key employees, and • inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. We have in the past experienced, and may experience in the future, these difficulties as we integrate the operations of companies we acquire. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted which could affect the market price of our stock. We have made six acquisitions to date, and our management has experienced challenges in completing acquisitions and integrating acquired businesses with our operations. If we fail to properly evaluate and execute acquisitions, our business and prospects may be harmed. Enforcement of state and federal anti-kickback laws may adversely affect our business, financial condition or operations. Various federal and state laws govern financial arrangements among healthcare providers. The federal anti-kickback law prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or with the purpose to induce, the referral of Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare program patients, or in return for, or with the purpose to induce, the purchase, lease or order of items or services that are covered by Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs. Similarly, many state laws prohibit the solicitation, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for, or to induce the referral of patients in private as well as government programs. Violation of these anti-kickback laws may result in substantial civil or criminal penalties for individuals or entities and/or exclusion from participating in federal or state healthcare programs. If we are excluded from federal or state healthcare programs, our customers who participate in those programs would not be permitted to continue doing business with us. We believe that we are operating in compliance with applicable law and believe that our arrangements with providers would not be found to violate the anti-kickback laws. However, these laws could be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our operations. Because our customers submit claims to the Medicare program based on the services we provide, it is possible that a lawsuit could be brought against us or our customers under the federal False Claims Act, and the outcome of any such lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. The Federal False Claims Act provides, in part, that the federal government may bring a lawsuit against any person whom it believes has knowingly presented, or caused to be presented, a false or fraudulent request for payment from the federal government, or who has made a false statement or used a false record to get a claim approved. The government has taken the position that claims presented in violation of the federal anti-kickback law may be considered a violation of the Federal False Claims Act. The Federal False Claims Act further provides that a lawsuit brought under that act may be initiated in the name of the United States by an individual who was the original source of the allegations, known as the relator. Actions brought under the Federal False Claims Act are sealed by the court at the time of filing. The only parties privy to the information contained in the complaint are the relator, the federal government and the court. Therefore, it is possible that lawsuits have been filed against us that we are unaware of or which we have been ordered by the court not to discuss until the court lifts the seal from the case. Penalties include fines ranging from $5,500 to $11,000 for each false claim, plus three times the amount of damages that the federal government sustained because of the act of that person. We believe that we are operating in compliance with the Medicare rules and regulations, and thus, the Federal False Claims Act. However, if we were found to have violated certain rules and regulations and, as a result, submitted or caused our customers to submit allegedly false claims, any sanctions imposed under the Federal False Claims Act could result in substantial fines and penalties or exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 19 Table of Contents Federal regulatory and law enforcement authorities have recently increased enforcement activities with respect to Medicare and Medicaid fraud and abuse regulations and other reimbursement laws and regulations, including laws and regulations that govern our activities and the activities of teleradiologists. These increased enforcement activities may have a direct or indirect adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, some state statutes contain prohibitions similar to and possibly even more restrictive than the Federal False Claims Act. These state laws may also empower state administrators to adopt regulations restricting financial relationships or payment arrangements involving healthcare providers under which a person benefits financially by referring a patient to another person. We believe that we are operating in compliance with these laws. However, if we are found to have violated such laws, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be harmed. Changes in the governmental interpretation or enforcement of the federal prohibition on physician self-referral may adversely affect our business, financial conditions or operations. The federal “Stark Law” prohibits a physician from referring Medicare or Medicaid patients for the provision of designated health services by an entity in which the physician has an investment interest or with which the physician has entered into a compensation arrangement. “Designated health services” include both the professional and technical components of diagnostic tests using X-rays, ultrasound or other imaging services, CT, MRI, radiation therapy and diagnostic mammography services. Violation of the Stark Law may result in substantial civil penalties and/or exclusion from participation in federal health care programs for both the referring physicians and any entities that submit technical and/or professional component claims for any diagnostic tests ordered by those referring physicians. We believe that we have structured our arrangements between our affiliated radiologists and our customers in a manner that complies with applicable law. However, this law could be interpreted in a manner inconsistent with our arrangements. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and will likely remain volatile. The trading prices of many publicly-traded companies are highly volatile, particularly companies such as ours that have relatively limited operating histories and are operating in an evolving industry. Since our initial public offering in February 2006, the trading price of our common stock has been subject to wide fluctuations. Factors that will continue to affect the trading price of our common stock include: • variations in our operating results, • announcements of new services, strategic alliances or significant agreements by us or by our competitors, • recruitment or departure of key personnel, • changes in the estimates of our operating results or changes in recommendations by any securities analysts that follow our common stock, and • market conditions in our industry, the industries of our customers and the economy as a whole. In addition, if the market for healthcare stocks or healthcare services or the stock market in general experiences loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. The trading price of our common stock might also decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us. We may need additional capital, which may not be available to us. We currently anticipate that our existing capital resources and cash generated from future operations will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs for at least the next 12 months. However, we may need to raise additional 20 Table of Contents funds if our estimates of revenues, working capital and/or capital expenditure requirements change or prove inaccurate or in order for us to respond to unforeseen technological or marketing hurdles or to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. There can be no assurance that any such funds will be available at the time or times needed or available on terms acceptable to us. Furthermore, if our agreement with St. Paul Radiology, P.A. is terminated, we may be required to repay all or a portion of our term loan. See “—If our customers terminate their agreements with us or if our customers’ businesses materially decline, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected.” If we are required to make such mandatory repayments, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the availability of research and reports that third-party industry or financial analysts publish about us. There are many large, publicly-traded companies active in the healthcare services industry, which may mean it will be less likely that we receive widespread analyst coverage. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Adverse changes in general economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results. Our success depends upon our ability to continue to provide our services to our customers and the willingness of our customers to engage us for these services. The willingness and ability of our customers to engage us for our services depends upon a number of factors, including broader economic conditions and perceptions of such conditions by our customers. Adverse changes in the broader U.S. economy may have an adverse impact on the behavior of our customers and the extent to which they are willing to engage us for our services. In addition, we may experience difficulty collecting accounts receivable in a timely manner, or at all, if our customers are adversely affected by prevailing economic conditions. Any of these factors could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A change in our customer composition may impact our collection rates. An increasing number of our customers are hospitals or hospital groups. As changes occur in general economic conditions, hospitals may be required to modify their budgets and/or move funds to other programs as directed by their management or changes in government funding. Recently, we have noticed an increasing number of hospitals becoming insolvent as government funds decrease to hospitals in certain states. If this trend continues and impacts our customers, our collection rates may decrease and our bad debt expense increase which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange risks, which could harm our business and operating results. We maintain significant operations in Australia and Switzerland, and are exposed to adverse changes in exchange rates associated with the expenses of our operations in these countries. However, we do not currently engage in any hedging transactions to mitigate these risks. Although from time to time we review our foreign currency exposure and evaluate whether we should enter into hedging transactions, we may not adequately hedge against any future volatility in currency exchange rates and, if we engage in hedging transactions, the transactions will be based on forecasts which later may prove to be inaccurate. Any failure to hedge successfully or anticipate currency risks properly could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, a third of our affiliated radiologists live in Australia and Switzerland, but receive compensation from us in U.S. dollars. Any relative weakness in the U.S. dollar compared to the Australian dollar or Swiss franc may increase the cost of living for our affiliated radiologists and make it less attractive for our affiliated radiologists to sign or renew their service contracts with us. 21 Table of Contents Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could depress the trading price of our common stock by acting to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management that the stockholders of our company may deem advantageous. These provisions: • establish a classified Board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time, • provide that directors may only be removed “for cause”, • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that our board could issue to increase the number of outstanding shares and to discourage a takeover attempt, • eliminate the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders, • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which has the effect of requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders, • provide that the Board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our bylaws, and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 