ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business and Competitive Environments. Economic, political and market factors beyond our control could reduce trading volumes, securities prices and demand for our brokerage services, which could harm our business and our profitability. Difficult market conditions, economic conditions and geopolitical uncertainties have in the past adversely affected and may in the future adversely affect our business and profitability. Our business and the brokerage and financial services industry in general are directly affected by national and international economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance, the level and volatility of interest rates, substantial fluctuations in the volume and price levels of securities transactions and changes in and uncertainty regarding tax and other laws. In each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, over 86% of our revenues were generated by our brokerage operations. As a result, our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of low trading volume in the financial markets in which we offer our services. The financial markets and the global financial services business are, by their nature, risky and volatile and are directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond our control. Any one of the following factors, among others, may cause a substantial decline in the U.S. and global financial markets in which we offer our services, resulting in reduced trading volume. These factors include: •economic and political conditions in the United States, Europe and elsewhere in the world; •concerns about terrorism and war; •concerns over inflation and wavering institutional and consumer confidence levels; •the availability of cash for investment by our customers and their clients; •the level and volatility of interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; •the level and volatility of trading in certain equity and commodity markets; •the level and volatility of the difference between the yields on corporate securities being traded and those on related benchmark securities (which difference we refer to as credit spreads); and •legislative and regulatory changes. Declines in the volume of trading in the markets in which we operate generally result in lower revenue from our brokerage business. In addition, although less common, some of our brokerage revenues are determined on the basis of the value of transactions or on credit spreads. Therefore, declines in the value of instruments traded in certain market sectors or the tightening of credit spreads could result in lower revenue for our brokerage business. Our profitability would be adversely affected by a decline in revenue because a portion of our costs are fixed. For these reasons, decreases in trading volume or declining prices or credit spreads could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Because competition for the services of brokers is intense, we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled brokers we need to support our business or we may be required to incur additional expenses to do so. We strive to provide high-quality brokerage services that allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our customers. Our ability to continue to provide these services and maintain these relationships depends, in large part, upon our brokers. As a result, we must attract and retain highly qualified brokerage personnel. Competition for the services of brokers is intense, 32 Table of Contents especially for brokers with extensive experience in the specialized markets in which we participate or may seek to enter. If we are unable to hire highly qualified brokers, we may not be able to enter new brokerage markets or develop new products. If we lose one or more of our brokers in a particular market in which we participate, our revenues may decrease and we may lose market share in that particular market. We may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain brokerage personnel. If we fail to attract new personnel or to retain and motivate our current personnel, or if we incur increased costs associated with attracting and retaining personnel (such as sign-on or guaranteed bonuses to attract new personnel or retain existing personnel), our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. In addition, recruitment and retention of qualified staff could result in substantial additional costs. We pursue our rights through litigation when competitors hire our employees who are under contract with us. We also have been and are party to litigation involving competitors in connection with employee hires and claims from former employees in connection with the termination of their employment. We are currently involved in legal proceedings with our competitors relating to the recruitment of employees. An adverse settlement or judgment related to these or similar types of claims could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Regardless of the outcome of these claims, we generally incur significant expense and management time dealing with these claims. We operate in a rapidly evolving business and technological environment and we must adapt our business and keep up with technological innovation in order to compete effectively. The pace of change in our industry is extremely rapid. Operating in such a fast paced business environment involves a high degree of risk. Our ability to succeed and compete effectively will depend on our ability to adapt effectively to these changing market conditions and to keep up with technological innovation. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and other features of our hybrid brokerage systems, network distribution systems and other technologies. The financial services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in use and client requirements and preferences, frequent product and service introductions employing new technologies and the emergence of new regulatory requirements, industry standards and practices that could render our existing practices, technology and systems obsolete. In more liquid markets, development by our competitors of new electronic or hybrid trade execution, STP, affirmation, confirmation or clearing functionalities or products that gain acceptance in the market could give those competitors a "first mover" advantage that may be difficult for us to overcome. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: •develop, test and implement hybrid or electronic brokerage systems that meet regulatory requirements and are desired and adopted by our customers and increase the productivity of our brokers; •enhance our existing services; •develop or acquire new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective customers; and •respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of proprietary brokerage systems and other technology to support our business entails significant technological, financial and business risks. Changes in existing laws and regulations, 33 Table of Contents including those being proposed and implemented under the Dodd-Frank Act, may require us to develop and maintain new brokerage systems or functionalities in order to meet the standards set forth in such regulations or as may be required by regulators, such as the CFTC or SEC. Further, the adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies may require us to devote substantial resources to modify, adapt and defend our services. We may not successfully implement new technologies or adapt our hybrid brokerage systems and transaction-processing systems to meet our clients' requirements or emerging regulatory or industry standards. We may not be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or client requirements or successfully defend any challenges to any technology we develop. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis, and to adapt to technological advancements and changing standards, we may be unable to compete effectively, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face substantial competition that could negatively impact our market share and our profitability. The financial services industry generally, and the wholesale and inter-dealer brokerage businesses in which we are engaged in particular, are very competitive, and we expect competition to continue to intensify in the future. Our current and prospective competitors include: •other large inter-dealer brokerage firms; •small brokerage firms that focus on specific products or regional markets; •securities, futures and derivatives exchanges, swap execution facilities and electronic communications networks; •increasingly, in certain equity and corporate fixed income markets, traditional cash product broker-dealers, including large, medium and smaller sized financial service firms; and •other providers of data and analytics products, including those that offer varying forms of electronic trading of the types of financial instruments in which we specialize. Some of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition, have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have and have larger client bases than we do. Some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and client requirements than we can, and may be able to undertake more extensive marketing activities. Our competitors often seek to hire our brokers, which could result in a loss of brokers by us or in increased costs to retain our brokers. In addition to the competitors described above, our large institutional clients may increase the amount of trading they do directly with each other rather than through us, or they may decrease their trading of certain OTC products in favor of exchange-traded products. In either case, our revenues could be adversely affected. If we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We have experienced intense price competition in our brokerage business in recent years. Some competitors may offer brokerage services to clients at lower prices than we are offering, which may force us to reduce our prices or to lose market share and revenue. In addition, we focus primarily on providing brokerage services in markets for less commoditized financial instruments. As the markets for these instruments become more commoditized, we could lose market share to other inter-dealer brokers, exchanges and electronic multi-dealer brokers who specialize in providing brokerage services in more commoditized markets. We increasingly compete with exchanges for the execution of trades in certain products. If a financial instrument for which we provide brokerage services becomes listed on an exchange or if an exchange introduces a competing product to the products we broker in the OTC market, the need for our services in relation to that instrument could be significantly reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 34 Table of Contents Convergence of OTC and exchange-traded markets may impact volumes, liquidity and demand for our services in certain markets. New regulation in the U.S. and abroad, including the Dodd-Frank Act, could result in a convergence of the traditional OTC market and the exchange-traded market, as certain OTC products are required to and become centrally cleared and traded via an exchange or swap execution facility. As the convergence of the OTC and exchange-traded markets occurs, the resulting OTC or swap execution facility market for those products may be less robust, there may be less volume and liquidity in these markets and there may be less demand for our services. If any of this were to occur, our business could be significantly reduced and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Consolidation and layoffs in the banking and financial services industries could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the banking and financial services industries, resulting in increased competition. Continued consolidation or significant layoffs in the financial services industry could result in a decrease in the number of traders for whom we are able to provide brokerage services, which may reduce our trading volumes. In addition, continued consolidation could lead to the exertion of additional pricing pressure by our customers and our competitors, impacting the commissions we generate from our brokerage services. Following the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S., many banks have spun off or are in the process of spinning off their proprietary trading operations due to the increased regulations, costs and uncertainty involved with such operations. It is not yet clear what affect this will have on our transaction volumes, revenues and business or whether we will be able to successfully compete for the business of any new entities created as a result of these spinoffs. Further, the recent consolidation among exchange firms, and expansion by these firms into derivative and other non-equity trading markets, will increase competition for customer trades and place additional pricing pressure on commissions and spreads. These developments have increased competition from firms with potentially greater access to capital resources than us. Finally, consolidation among our competitors other than exchange firms could result in increased resources and product or service offerings for our competitors. If we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to continue to identify and exploit new market opportunities, our ability to maintain and grow our business may be adversely affected. When a new intermediary enters our markets or the markets become more liquid, the resulting competition or increased liquidity may lead to lower commissions. This may result in a decrease in revenue in a particular market even if the volume of trades we handle in that market has increased. As a result, we seek to broker more trades and increase market share in existing markets and to seek out new markets in which we can charge higher commissions. Pursuing this strategy requires significant management attention and broker expense. We may not be able to attract new clients or successfully enter new markets. If we are unable to continue to identify and exploit new market opportunities on a timely and cost-effective basis, our revenues may decline, which would adversely affect our profitability. Financial or other problems experienced by our clients or third parties could affect the markets in which we provide brokerage services. In addition, any disruption in the key derivatives markets in which we provide services could affect our brokerage revenues. Problems experienced by third parties could also affect the markets in which we provide brokerage services. In recent years, an increasing number of financial institutions have reported losses tied to 35 Table of Contents write-downs of mortgage and asset backed securities, structured credit products and other derivative instruments and investments. As a result, there is an increased risk that one of our clients or counterparties could fail, shut down, file for bankruptcy or be unable to pay out their positions under certain derivative contracts. The failure of a significant number of counterparties or a counterparty that holds a significant amount of derivatives exposure, or which has significant financial exposure to, or reliance on, the mortgage, asset-backed or related markets, could have a material adverse effect on the trading volume and liquidity in a particular market for which we provide brokerage services or on the broader financial markets. The occurrence of any of these events or failures by our customers could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in recent years, an increasing percentage of our business, directly or indirectly, results from trading activity by hedge funds. Hedge funds typically employ a significant amount of leverage to achieve their results and, in the past, certain hedge funds have had difficulty managing this leverage, which has resulted in market-wide disruptions. During the economic turmoil of the last few years, many hedge funds have significantly decreased their leverage or have gone out of business. If this deleveraging continues or one or more hedge funds that was a significant participant in a derivatives market experiences problems in the future, that derivatives market could be adversely affected and, accordingly, our brokerage revenues in that market will likely decrease. Our brokerage, clearing and execution business exposes us to certain client and counterparty credit risks. We generally provide brokerage services to our clients in the form of either agency or matched principal transactions. In agency transactions, we charge a commission for connecting buyers and sellers and assisting in the negotiation of the price and other material terms of the transaction. After all material terms of a transaction are agreed upon, we identify the buyer and seller to each other and leave them to settle the trade directly. We are exposed to credit risk for commissions we bill to clients for our agency brokerage services. In executing matched principal transactions, we are exposed to the risk that one of the counterparties to a transaction may fail to fulfill its obligations, as described in further detail in the Risk Factor captioned "The securities settlement process exposes us to risks that may impact our liquidity and profitability. In addition, liability for unmatched principal trades could adversely affect our results of operations and balance sheet." Our clients may default on their obligations to us arising from either agency or principal transactions due to disputes, bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Any losses arising from such defaults could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We also have credit and counterparty risk in certain situations where we provide clearing and execution services. We provide agency clearing services through our relationships with general clearing member firms and/or exchanges. In these instances, our accounts at such institutions are used, in our name, to provide access to clearing services for our customers. Credit risk arises from the possibility that we may suffer losses due to the failure of our customers or other counterparties to satisfy their financial obligations to us or in a timely manner. We may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by our customers or counterparties. Credit risks we face include, among others: •exposure to a customer's inability or unwillingness to meet obligations, including when adverse market movements result in a trading loss and the customer's posted margin is insufficient to satisfy the deficit. Such margin deficiencies may be caused by a failure to monitor client positions and accurately evaluate risk exposures, which may lead to our failure to require clients to post adequate initial margin or to increase variation margin, as necessary, to keep pace with market movements and subsequent account deficits; •exposure to counterparties with whom we place funds, including those of our customers, such as when we post margin with exchanges and clearing members; 36 Table of Contents •exposure to counterparties with whom we trade; and •market risk exposure due to delayed or failed settlement, which, if not corrected, could become our responsibility as an agency clearing broker. In addition, we have market risk exposure on matched and unmatched principal transactions until offsetting trades are executed and settled. Customers and counterparties that owe us money or securities may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. Our reputation may be damaged if we are associated with a customer or counterparty that defaults, even if we do not have any direct losses from such an event. For further detail see the Risk Factor captioned "The securities settlement process exposes us to risks that may impact our liquidity and profitability. In addition, liability for unmatched principal trades could adversely affect our results of operations and statement of financial condition." We have adopted policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our credit risk, in both agency and principal transactions, through reporting and control procedures and by monitoring credit standards applicable to our clients. These policies and procedures, however, may not be fully effective. Some of our risk management methods depend upon the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. If our policies and procedures are not fully effective or we are not always successful in monitoring or evaluating the credit risks to which we are, or may, be exposed, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, our insurance policies may not provide coverage for these risks. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. We may also be adversely affected if settlement, clearing or payment systems become unavailable, fail or are subject to systemic delays for any reason outside our control. In certain instances, we may extend credit to our clearing customers for margin requirements, which subjects us to credit risks and, if we are unable to liquidate a customer's securities when the margin collateral becomes insufficient, we may suffer a loss. In certain instances, we may provide credit for margin requirements to customers; therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit. Our credit risks include the risk that the value of the collateral we hold could fall below the amount of a customer's indebtedness. This risk can be amplified in any situation where the market for the underlying security is rapidly declining. Agreements with customers that have margin accounts permit us to liquidate their securities in the event that the amount of margin collateral becomes insufficient. Despite those agreements and our risk management policies with respect to margin, we may be unable to liquidate the customers' securities for various reasons, or at a price sufficient to cover any deficiency in a customer's account. If we were unable to liquidate a position at a price sufficient to cover any deficiency or if a customer was unable to post additional margin, we may suffer a loss. Certain of our clearing customers may choose to obtain a direct relationship with a clearing member, an exchange or a clearinghouse as their operations grow, in which case, we would lose the revenues generated by such customers. We market our clearing services to our existing customers on the strength of our relationship with certain clearing members and exchanges and on our ability to perform related back-office functions at a lower cost than the customers could perform these functions themselves. As our customers' operations grow, they may consider the option of obtaining a direct relationship with a clearing member, clearinghouse or exchange themselves in an effort to save costs. If our customers choose to obtain their clearing services directly, we would lose their revenue and our business could be adversely affected. 37 Table of Contents We face substantial competition from other execution and clearing firms, which could harm our financial performance and reduce our market share. The market for execution and clearing services is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We compete with a number of firms that provide similar products and services to our market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors. If we fail to compete effectively, our market share could decrease and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. In addition, increased competition has contributed to a decline in clearing revenue per transaction in recent years and may continue to create downward pressure on our clearing revenue per transaction in the future. If the decline in clearing revenue per transaction continues, we may not be able to increase our overall clearing volumes at a comparable rate and our revenues from clearing services would be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry and we may face restrictions with respect to the way we conduct certain of our operations. Our business is subject to increasingly extensive government and other regulation and our relationships with our broker-dealer clients may subject us to increasing regulatory scrutiny. These regulations are designed to protect the interests of the investing public generally rather than our stockholders. The SEC, FINRA, CFTC and other agencies extensively regulate the U.S. financial services industry, including certain of our operations in the United States. Some of our international operations are subject to similar regulations in their respective jurisdictions, including regulations overseen by the FSA in the United Kingdom, the AMF in France, the SFC in Hong Kong, the MAS in Singapore, the JSDA in Japan, the Ministry of Finance and Economy in Korea and the SVS in Chile. These regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. Some aspects of our business are subject to extensive regulation, including: •the way we deal with clients; •capital requirements; •financial and reporting practices; •required record keeping and record retention procedures; •the licensing of employees; •the conduct of directors, officers, employees and affiliates; •systems and control requirements; •restrictions on marketing, gifts and entertainment; and •client identification and anti-money laundering requirements. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registrations with FINRA, withdrawal of our authorizations from the FSA or revocation of our registrations with other similar international agencies to whose regulation we are subject. For example, in the past, we have been fined in the U.S. for issues relating to late trade reporting. Additionally, in October 2010, FINRA commenced a disciplinary proceeding by filing a complaint against GFI Securities LLC and four of its former employees in connection with allegedly improper communications between certain of these former employees and those at other interdealer 38 Table of Contents brokerage firms. For more details, see "Item 1—Business—Regulation" and "Item 3—Legal Proceedings." Our authority to operate as a broker in a jurisdiction is dependent on continued registration or authorization in that jurisdiction or the maintenance of a proper exemption from such registration or authorization. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our compliance, credit approval, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, credit approval, audit and risk management personnel. Our systems and procedures may not be effective. In addition, the growth and expansion of our business may create additional strain on our compliance systems and procedures and has resulted, and we expect will continue to result, in increased costs to maintain and improve these systems. In addition, because our industry is heavily regulated, regulatory approval may be required in order to continue or expand our business activities and we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. Even if approvals are obtained, they may impose restrictions on our business or we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of the approvals or applicable regulations. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development or continuation of business activities in affected markets to become impractical. For a further description of the regulations which may limit our activities, see "Item 1—Business—Regulation." Some of our subsidiaries are subject to regulations regarding changes in control of their ownership. These regulations generally provide that regulatory approval must be obtained in connection with any transaction resulting in a change in control of the subsidiary, which may include changes in control of GFI Group Inc. As a result of these regulations, our future efforts to sell shares or raise additional capital may be delayed or prohibited in circumstances in which such a transaction would give rise to a change in control as defined by the applicable regulatory body. Broad changes in laws or regulations or in the application of such laws and regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. The financial services industry, in general, is heavily regulated. Proposals for legislation further regulating the financial services industry are continually being introduced in the United States Congress, in state legislatures and by foreign governments. The government agencies that regulate us continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations and have broad powers to investigate and enforce compliance and punish noncompliance with their rules, regulations and industry standards of practice. In light of current conditions in the U.S. financial markets and economy, regulators have increased their focus on the regulation of the financial services industry. We are unable to predict whether any of these proposals will be implemented or in what form, or whether any additional or similar changes to statutes or regulations, including the interpretation or implementation thereof, will occur in the future. Any such action could affect us in substantial and unpredictable ways and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are also affected by the policies adopted by the Federal Reserve and international central banking authorities, which may directly impact our cost of funds for capital raising and investment activities and may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Additionally, governments and regulators in both the U.S. and Europe have called for increased regulation and transparency in the OTC markets. As a result, the Dodd-Frank Act was passed in the U.S. in July 2010 and regulators in Europe are currently considering similar legislation. It is difficult to 39 Table of Contents predict the effect these new regulations will have on our business, but they may have an adverse affect on our ability to maintain our position as a provider of execution and brokerage services in the markets for many of the OTC products for which we have traditionally acted as an intermediary. Failure to qualify as a swap execution facility could significantly impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we qualify as a swap execution facility, we will incur significant additional costs, our revenues may be lower than in the past and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The Dodd-Frank Act created a new type of regulated entity known as a swap execution facility (commonly referred to as a SEF) and mandated that certain cleared swaps trade on either an exchange or SEF. The list of swaps that will be required to be cleared and therefore executed through a SEF is not yet final, but is expected to encompass a vast number of swaps that have been traditionally executed OTC by wholesale brokers such as ourselves. As with other parts of the Dodd-Frank Act, many of the details of the new regulatory regime relating to swaps are left to the CFTC and SEC to determine through rulemaking. Subject to such rulemaking, we currently expect to establish and operate a swap execution facility and a security-based swap execution facility. The CFTC and SEC have each issued proposed rules relating to the requirements for registering and operating as a SEF. We are in the process of analyzing the impact of these proposed rules and preparing for compliance. However, these rules are not yet final and are still subject to comment and revision. The proposed rules relating to SEFs would require, among other things, that an entity would have to comply with certain core principles to maintain registration as a SEF. These principles generally relate to trading and product requirements, compliance and audit-trail obligations, governance and disciplinary requirements, operational capabilities, surveillance obligations and financial information and resource requirements. In addition, SEFs will be required to maintain certain trading systems that meet the minimum functionality requirements set by the CFTC and SEC for trading in certain OTC derivatives that are required to be cleared. There will be significant costs to prepare for and to comply with these on-going regulatory requirements. We will incur increased legal fees, personnel expenses and other costs as we work to analyze and implement the necessary legal structure for registration. There will also be significant costs related to the development, operation and enhancement of our technology relating to trade execution, trade reporting, surveillance, compliance and back-up and disaster recovery plans designed to meet the requirements of the regulators. In addition, it is not clear at this point what the impact of these rules and regulations will be on the markets in which we currently provide our services. Following the adoption of the Dodd-Frank Act and related rules, the markets for cleared and non-cleared swaps may be less robust, there may be less volume and liquidity in these markets and there may be less demand for our services. There may also be a preference of market participants to trade certain swaps on an exchange, rather than a SEF. Certain banks and other institutions will be limited in their conduct of proprietary trading and will be further limited or prohibited from trading in certain derivatives. The new rules, including the restrictions on the trading activities for certain banks and large institutions, could materially impact transaction volumes and liquidity in these markets and our revenues, financial condition and business would be adversely impacted as a result. If we fail to qualify as a SEF under any of these proposed rules, we will be unable to maintain our position as a provider of execution and brokerage services in the markets for many of the OTC products for which we have traditionally acted as an intermediary. This would have a broad impact on our business and could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. 40 Table of Contents Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to risks associated with net capital requirements, and we may not be able to engage in operations that require significant capital. Many aspects of our business are subject to significant capital requirements. The SEC, FINRA, FSA, JSDA and various other domestic and international regulatory agencies have stringent rules and regulations with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by broker-dealers. In addition, there may be capital requirements for SEFs and swap dealers, which will be established by the CFTC and the SEC. Generally, a broker-dealer's net capital is defined as its net worth plus qualified subordinated debt less deductions for certain types of assets. While we expect to continue to maintain levels of capital in excess of regulatory minimums, there can be no assurance that this will be the case in the future. If we fail to maintain the required capital levels, we will be required to suspend our broker-dealer operations during any period in which we are not in compliance with capital requirements, and may be subject to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and FINRA or withdrawal of authorization or other disciplinary action from domestic and international regulators, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. If these net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, operations that require the intensive use of capital would be limited. Also, our ability to withdraw capital from our regulated subsidiaries is subject to restrictions, which in turn could limit our ability to pay dividends, repay debt or purchase shares of our common stock. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our present levels of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we may become subject to net capital requirements in other foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or which we may enter. In addition, we are required to maintain capital with our clearing firms, prime brokers, futures clearing merchants and at clearing organizations of which we are a member. The amount of capital to be maintained is dependent on a number of factors, including the rules established by the clearing organization, the types of products to be cleared and the volume and size of positions to be cleared. If we fail to maintain the capital required by these clearing organizations and firms, our ability to clear through these clearing organizations and firms may be impaired, which may adversely affect our ability to process trades. We cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing. For a further discussion of our net capital requirements, see "Item 1—Business—Regulation" and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our risk-management policies might not be effective, which could harm our business. To manage the significant risks inherent in our business, we must maintain effective policies, procedures and systems that enable us to identify, monitor and control our exposure to financial, market, credit, legal, reputational and operational risks. For a description of our risk management approach, see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk." This risk management function requires, among other things, that we properly record and verify many thousands of transactions and events each day, and that we continuously monitor and evaluate the size and nature of our or our clients' positions and the associated risks. In light of the high volume of transactions, it is impossible for us to review and assess every single transaction or to monitor at every moment in time our or our customers' positions and the associated risks. We must rely upon our analysis of information regarding markets, personnel, clients or other matters that is publicly available or otherwise accessible to us. That information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly analyzed. Furthermore, we rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and potential failure, the challenges of which are exacerbated by the 24-hour-a-day, global nature of our business. 41 Table of Contents Our risk-management methods are based on internally developed controls, observed historical market behavior and what we believe to be industry practices. However, our methods may not adequately prevent future losses, particularly as they may relate to extreme market movements or events for which little or no historical precedent exists or our risk management efforts may be insufficient. Thus, our risk-management methods may prove to be ineffective because of their design, their implementation or the lack of adequate, accurate or timely information. Our risk management methods may also fail to identify a risk or understand a risk that might result in losses. If our risk-management efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. Additionally, we could be subject to litigation, particularly from our clients, and sanctions or fines from regulators. The securities settlement process exposes us to risks that may impact our liquidity and profitability. In addition, liability for unmatched principal trades could adversely affect our results of operations and statement of financial condition. Through our subsidiaries, we provide brokerage services by executing transactions for our clients. An increasing number of these transactions are "matched principal transactions" in which we act as a "middleman" by serving as a counterparty to both a buyer and a seller in matching reciprocal back-to-back trades. These transactions, which generally involve cash equities and bonds, are then settled through clearing institutions with which we have a contractual relationship. In executing matched principal transactions, we are exposed to the risk that one of the counterparties to a transaction may fail to fulfill its obligations, either because it is not matched immediately or, even if matched, one party fails to deliver the cash or securities it is obligated to deliver. Our focus on less commoditized markets exacerbates this risk for us because transactions in these markets tend to be more likely not to settle on a timely basis. Adverse movements in the prices of securities that are the subject of these transactions can increase our risk. In addition, widespread technological or communication failures, as well as actual or perceived credit difficulties or the insolvency of one or more large or visible market participants, could cause market-wide credit difficulties or other market disruptions. These failures, difficulties or disruptions could result in a large number of market participants not settling transactions or otherwise not performing their obligations. We are subject to financing risk in these circumstances because if a transaction does not settle on a timely basis, the resulting unmatched position may need to be financed, either directly by us or through one of our clearing organizations at our expense. These charges may be recoverable from the failing counterparty, but sometimes are not. Finally, in instances where the unmatched position or failure to deliver is prolonged or widespread due to rapid or widespread declines in liquidity for an instrument, there may also be regulatory capital charges required to be taken by us, which depending on their size and duration, could limit our business flexibility or even force the curtailment of those portions of our business requiring higher levels of capital. In the process of executing matched principal transactions, miscommunications and other errors by our clients or us can arise whereby a transaction is not completed with one or more counterparties to the transaction, leaving us with either a long or short unmatched position. These unmatched positions are referred to as "out trades," and they create a potential liability for our subsidiary involved in the trade. If an out trade is promptly discovered and there is a prompt disposition of the unmatched position, the risk to us is usually limited. If the discovery of an out trade is delayed, the risk is heightened by the increased possibility of intervening market movements prior to disposition. Although out trades usually become known at the time of, or later on the day of, the trade, it is possible that they may not be discovered until later in the settlement process. When out trades are discovered our policy is generally to have the unmatched position disposed of promptly (usually on the same day and generally within three days), whether or not this disposition would result in a loss to us. The occurrence of out trades generally rises with increases in the volatility of the market and, depending on their 42 Table of Contents number and amount, such out trades have the potential to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the use of our electronic brokerage platforms for products that we broker on a matched principal basis, such as CreditMatch®, can present these risks because of the potential for erroneous entries by our clients or brokers coupled with the potential that such errors will not be discovered promptly. We have market risk exposure from principal transactions entered into by some of our desks. We generally execute orders on a matched principal basis by entering into one side of a customer trade and entering into an offsetting trade with another party relatively quickly (often within minutes and generally on the same trading day). However, we may take unmatched positions for our own account primarily to facilitate the execution of existing customer orders or in anticipation that future customer orders will become available to fill the other side of the transaction, and not primarily for directional purposes. While we seek to minimize our exposure to market risk by entering into offsetting trades or a hedging transaction relatively quickly (often within minutes and generally on the same trading day), we may not always enter into an offsetting trade on the same trading day and any hedging transaction we may enter into may not fully offset our exposure. Therefore, although any unmatched positions are intended to be held short term, we may not entirely offset market risk and may be exposed to market risk for several days or more or to a partial extent or both. Our exposure varies based on the size of the overall positions, the terms and liquidity of the instruments brokered, and the amount of time the positions are held before we dispose of the position. Although the significant majority of our principal trading is done on a "matched principal" basis, we have authorized a limited number of our desks to enter into principal investing transactions in which we commit our capital within predefined limits, either to facilitate customer trading activities or to engage in principal trading for our own account. These principal positions may ultimately be matched against a customer order or through a market intermediary, either in the short term (such as the same trading day) or we may hold these positions for several days or more. The number and size of these transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period and we may also incur losses from these trading activities due to market fluctuations and volatility from quarter to quarter. To the extent that we own assets (i.e., have long positions) in any of those markets, a downturn in the value of those assets or in those markets could result in losses from a decline in the value of those long positions. Conversely, to the extent that we have sold assets we do not own (i.e., have short positions) in any of those markets, an upturn in those markets could expose us to significant losses as we attempt to cover our short positions by acquiring assets in a rising market. In addition, in the event that one of our desks enters into principal transactions that exceed their authorized limit and we are unable to dispose of the position promptly, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. Due to the factors described above, including the nature of the position and access to the market on which it trades, we may not be able to match a position or effectively hedge our exposure and often may hold a position overnight or longer that has not been hedged. To the extent these principal positions are not disposed of intra-day, we mark these positions to market. Adverse movements in the securities underlying these positions or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these positions could result in a substantial loss. In addition, any principal gains and losses resulting from these positions could on occasion have a disproportionate positive or negative effect, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. We intend to continue to expand both our matched principal and principal trading businesses, primarily involving fixed income and equity securities, but increasingly, for certain foreign exchange, commodities and listed derivative products. 43 Table of Contents We have equity investments or profit sharing interests in entities whose primary business is proprietary trading. These investments could expose us to losses that would adversely affect our net income and the value of our assets. We have equity investments or profit sharing interests in entities whose primary business is proprietary trading. The accounting treatment applied for these investments varies depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our percentage ownership or profit share and whether we have any influence or control over the relevant entity. Under certain accounting standards, any losses experienced by these entities on their investment activities would adversely impact our net income and the value of these assets. In addition, if these entities were to fail and cease operations, we may lose the entire value of our investment and the stream of any shared profits from trading. Our investments in expanding our brokerage and clearing services, hybrid brokerage systems and market data and analytics services may not produce substantial revenue or profit. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant investments in our brokerage, clearing and market data and analytics services, including investments in personnel, technology and infrastructure, in order to pursue new growth opportunities. With respect to our brokerage services and hybrid brokerage systems, we may not receive significant revenue and profit from the development of a new brokerage desk or hybrid brokerage system or the revenue we do receive may not be sufficient to cover the start-up costs of the new desk or the substantial development expenses associated with creating a new hybrid brokerage system. Even when our personnel hires and systems are ultimately successful, there is typically a transition period before these hires or systems become profitable or increase productivity. In some instances, our clients may determine that they do not need or prefer a hybrid brokerage system and the period before the system is successfully developed, introduced and adopted may extend over many months or years. The successful introduction of hybrid brokerage systems in one market or country does not ensure that the same system will be used or favored by clients in similar markets or other countries. Our continued expansion of brokerage personnel and systems to support new growth opportunities results in on-going transition periods that could adversely affect the levels of our compensation and expense as a percentage of brokerage revenue. With respect to our investment in clearing, settlement and back-office services, we may not produce significant revenue or profit. In addition, any revenues we do receive may not be sufficient to cover our invested capital or start-up costs. With respect to these services, we may incur significant costs developing and maintaining systems for back-office, risk management and exchange and clearing connections with relevant exchanges and clearing firms. In addition, this business may involve significant management effort to expand. If we are unable to generate sufficient revenue to cover the fixed costs associated with this business, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. With respect to our market data and analytics services, we may incur substantial development, sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort to create a new product or service. Even after incurring these costs, we ultimately may not sell any or sell only small amounts of these products or services. Consequently, if revenue does not increase in a timely fashion as a result of these expansion and development initiatives, the up-front costs associated with them may exceed the related revenue and reduce our working capital and income. 44 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage the risks of international operations effectively, our business could be adversely affected. We provide services and products to clients globally through offices in Europe, the Middle East, Africa, South America and Asia and we may seek to further expand our operations in the future. On a geographic basis, approximately 54% and 50% of our total revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were generated by our operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), 36% and 41%, respectively, were generated by our operations in the Americas, which include operations in South America, and 10% and 9%, respectively, were generated by our operations in the Asia-Pacific region. There are certain additional risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the regulated brokerage industry. These risks include: •additional regulatory requirements; •difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel and managing the international operations; •potentially adverse tax consequences, tariffs and other trade barriers; •adverse labor laws; and •reduced protection for intellectual property rights. Our international operations also expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. For example, a substantial portion of our revenue from our London office, our largest international office, is received in Euros and U.S. Dollars, whereas many of our expenses from our London operations are payable in British Pounds. Our risk management strategies relating to exchange rates may not prevent us from suffering losses that would adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. Our international operations are also subject to the political, legal and economic risks associated with politically unstable and less developed regions of the world, including the risk of war and other international conflicts and actions by governmental authorities, insurgent groups, terrorists and others. In addition, we are required to comply with the laws and regulations of foreign governmental and regulatory authorities of each country in which we conduct business. These may include laws, rules and regulations, including registration requirements. For example, in Europe, the European Commission published a formal proposal for OTC derivatives, central clearing parties and trade repositories regulation in September 2010, which is referred to as the European Market Infrastructure Regulation ("EMIR"). EMIR, which is currently in the approval phase with the European Counsel and European Parliament, proposes central clearing and transparent reporting requirements for OTC derivatives and is expected to be in place by year-end 2012. Our compliance with these laws and regulations may be difficult and time consuming and may require significant expenditures and personnel requirements, and our failure to be in compliance would subject us to legal and regulatory liabilities. We may also experience difficulty in managing our international operations because of, among other things, competitive conditions overseas, established domestic markets, language and cultural differences and economic or political instability. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the success of our international operations or limit our ability to grow our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to manage any of these risks effectively, our business could be adversely affected. 45 Table of Contents We may be exposed to risk from our operations in emerging market countries, including counterparty risks exposure. Our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into new regions, including emerging markets, and we expect this trend to continue. We have entered into an increasing number of matched principal transactions with counterparties domiciled in countries in the Middle East, Latin America, Eastern Europe and Asia. Recent events in the Middle East have created instability in the region, particularly with respect to certain sovereignty. Transactions with these counterparties are generally in instruments or contracts of sovereign or corporate issuers located in the same country as the counterparty. This exposes us to a higher degree of sovereign or convertibility risk than in more stable or developed countries. In addition, these risks may be correlated risks. A correlated risk arises when the counterparty's inability to meet its obligations will also correspond to a decline in the value of the instrument traded. In the case of a sovereign convertibility event or outright default, the counterparty to the trade may be unable to pay or transfer payment of an instrument purchased out of the country when the value of the instrument has declined due to the default or convertibility event. Various emerging market countries have experienced severe economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative growth rates in their economies. These conditions could have an adverse impact on our businesses and increased volatility in financial markets generally. Through our risk management procedures, we monitor the creditworthiness of emerging countries and counterparties on an ongoing basis and when the risk of inconvertibility or sovereign default is deemed to be too great, correlated transactions or all transactions may be restricted or suspended. However, there can be no assurance that these procedures will be effective in controlling these risks. We may have difficulty managing our expanding operations effectively. We have significantly expanded our business activities and operations over the last several years, which have placed, and are expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and resources. Continued expansion into new markets and regions will require continued investment in management and other personnel, facilities, information technology infrastructure, financial and management systems and controls and regulatory compliance control. We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support these initiatives, which could result in our expenses increasing faster than our revenues, causing our operating margins and profitability to be adversely affected. The expansion of our international operations, particularly our Asia-Pacific and South American operations, involves additional challenges that we may not be able to meet, such as the difficulty in effectively managing and staffing these operations and complying with the increased regulatory requirements associated with operating in new jurisdictions. This expansion, if not properly managed, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event of employee misconduct or error, our business may be harmed. Employee misconduct or error could subject us to legal liability, financial losses and regulatory sanctions and could seriously harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. Misconduct by employees could include engaging in improper or unauthorized transactions or activities, failing to properly supervise other employees or improperly using confidential information. Employee errors, including mistakes in executing, recording or processing transactions for customers, could cause us to enter into transactions that clients may disavow and refuse to settle, which could expose us to the risk of material losses even if the errors are detected and the transactions are unwound or reversed. If our clients are not able to settle their transactions on a timely basis, the time in which employee errors are detected may be increased and our risk of material loss could be increased. The risk of employee error or miscommunication may be greater for products that are new or have non-standardized terms. It is 46 Table of Contents not always possible to deter employee misconduct or error, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases. Brokerage services involve substantial risks of liability, and we therefore may become subject to risks of litigation. Many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our clients, involve substantial risks of liability. Dissatisfied clients may make claims regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades or mismanagement against us. We may become subject to these claims as the result of failures or malfunctions of our trading systems or other brokerage services provided by us, and third parties may seek recourse against us. We attempt to limit our liability to our customers through the use of written or "click-through" agreements, but we do not have such agreements with many of our clients. We could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. An adverse resolution of any lawsuit or claim against us could result in our obligation to pay substantial damages. If we acquire other companies or businesses, or if we hire new brokerage personnel, we may have difficulty integrating their operations. To achieve our strategic objectives, we have acquired or invested in, and in the future may seek to acquire or invest in, other companies and businesses. We also may seek to hire brokers for new or existing brokerage desks. These acquisitions or new hires may be necessary in order for us to enter into or develop new product areas or trading systems. Acquisitions and new hires entail numerous risks, including: •difficulties in the assimilation of acquired personnel, operations, services or products; •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •assumption of, or exposure to, known and unknown material liabilities of acquired companies or businesses, strategic alliances, collaborations or joint ventures; •litigation and/or arbitration related to the hiring of brokerage personnel; •the decrease in our cash reserves, the increased cost of borrowing funds or the dilution resulting from issuances of our equity securities, in each case as consideration to finance the purchase price of any significant acquisitions; •to the extent that we pursue business opportunities outside the United States, exposure to political, economic, legal, regulatory, operational and other risks that are inherent in operating in a foreign country, including risks of possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities; •the up-front costs associated with recruiting brokerage personnel, including when establishing a new brokerage desk, such as significant signing bonuses or contractual guarantees of a minimum level of compensation; •failure to achieve financial or operating objectives; and •potential loss of clients or key employees of acquired companies and businesses. In addition, we expect to face competition for acquisition targets and/or joint venture partners, which may limit the number of acquisitions and growth opportunities and could lead to higher acquisition prices. We may not be able to successfully identify, acquire or manage profitably additional businesses or integrate businesses without substantial costs, delays or other operational or financial difficulties. 47 Table of Contents If we fail to manage these risks as we make acquisitions or make new hires, our profitability may be adversely affected, and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions or hires. In addition, entering into new businesses may require prior approval from regulators. Our ability to obtain timely approval from applicable regulators may hinder our ability to successfully enter new businesses. Seasonal fluctuations in trading may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate. In the past, our business has experienced seasonal fluctuations, reflecting reduced trading activity during summer months, particularly in August. We also generally experience reduced activity in December due to seasonal holidays. As a result, our quarterly operating results may not be indicative of the results we expect for the full year. Our operating results may also fluctuate quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors beyond our control, such as conditions in the global financial markets, terrorism, war and other economic and political events. Furthermore, we may experience reduced revenues in a quarter due to a decrease in the number of business days in that quarter compared to prior years. Computer systems failures, capacity constraints, breaches of security and natural or other disasters could prevent us from operating parts of our business or otherwise damage our reputation or business. We internally support and maintain many of our computer systems, brokerage platforms and networks. Our failure to monitor, maintain or, if necessary, replace these systems, brokerage platforms and networks in a timely and cost-effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our operations. We also rely and expect to continue to rely on third parties to supply and maintain various computer systems, trading platforms and communications systems, such as telephone companies, internet service providers, data processors, clearing organizations, software and hardware vendors and back-up services. Our systems, or those of our third party providers, may fail or operate slowly, causing one or more of the following: •unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients; •slower response times; •delays in our clients' trade execution; •failed settlement of trades; •decreased client satisfaction with our services or brokerage platforms; •incomplete, untimely or inaccurate accounting, recording, reporting or processing of trades; •financial losses; •litigation or other client claims; and •regulatory sanctions. We may experience systems or office failures from power or telecommunications outages, acts of God, war, terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism or similar events. Additionally, our business continuity or disaster recovery plans and related systems may not be effective to deal with such events and the failure of such plans or systems may have a material adverse effect on our business. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by client error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name. In addition, if security measures contained in our systems are breached as a 48 Table of Contents result of third-party actions, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, our reputation may be damaged and our business could suffer. If systems maintained by us or third parties malfunction, our clients or other third parties may seek recourse against us. We could incur significant legal expenses defending these claims, even those which we may believe to be without merit. An adverse resolution of any lawsuits or claims against us could result in our obligation to pay substantial damages and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. If one or more of our offices were destroyed, damaged or unusable for a period of time we may suffer a loss of revenue, experience business interruption in that region or incur expenses to relocate or repair the affected office to the extent not covered by insurance. If any of these were to occur, it could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or may be prevented from using intellectual property necessary for our business. Our business depends in part on whether we are able to maintain the proprietary aspects of our technology and to operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We rely primarily on trade secret, contract, copyright, trademark and patent law to protect our proprietary technology. However, these protections may not be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringing on our rights. We may also face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use technology that is material to our business operations. We may face limitations or restrictions on the distribution of some of the market data generated by our brokerage desks, which may limit the comprehensiveness and quality of the data we are able to distribute or sell. In addition, in the past several years, there has been proliferation of so-called "business method patents" applicable to the computer and financial services industries. There has also been a substantial increase in the number of such patent applications filed. Under current law, U.S. patent applications remain secret for 18 months and may, depending upon where else such applications are filed, remain secret until a patent is issued. In light of these factors, it is not economically practicable to determine in advance whether our products or services may infringe the present or future patent rights of others. In addition, although we take steps to protect our technology, we may not be able to protect our technology from disclosure or from other developing technologies that are similar or superior to our technology. Any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights or if we infringe on the rights of others, we could become involved in costly disputes and may be required to pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties. In the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. This litigation could result from claims that we are violating the rights of others or may be necessary to enforce our own rights. Any such litigation would be time consuming and expensive to defend or resolve and would result in the diversion of the resources and attention of management, and the outcome of any such litigation cannot be accurately predicted. Any adverse determination in such litigation could subject us to significant liabilities or require us to pay royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties, which we may not be able to obtain on terms acceptable to us or at all. 49 Table of Contents We depend on third-party software licenses. The loss of any of our key licenses could adversely affect our ability to provide our brokerage services. We license software from third parties, some of which is integral to our execution services, hybrid brokerage systems and our business. These licenses are generally terminable if we breach our obligations under the licenses or if the licensor gives us notice in advance of the termination. If any of these relationships were terminated, or if any of these third parties were to cease doing business, we may be forced to spend significant time and money to replace the licensed software. These replacements may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. A termination of any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Liquidity and Financing Needs Our liquidity and financial condition could be adversely affected by U.S. and international markets and economic conditions. Liquidity is essential to our business and is of particular importance to our trading business. Any perceived liquidity issues may affect our clients' and counterparties' willingness to engage in brokerage transactions with us. In addition, our business is dependent upon the availability of adequate regulatory and clearing capital. Clearing capital is the amount of cash, guarantees or similar collateral that we must provide or deposit with our third party clearing organizations in support of our obligations under our contractual clearing arrangements with these organizations. Historically, these needs have been satisfied from internally generated funds, investments from our stockholders and lines of credit made available by commercial banking institutions. Our liquidity could be impaired due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects our clients, third parties or us. Further, our ability to sell assets to generate liquidity may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. Our ability to raise capital in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets has been and could continue to be adversely affected by conditions in the U.S. and international markets and economy. Global market and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. In particular, our cost and availability of raising debt capital may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. As a result of concern about the stability of the markets, the strength of counterparties and other factors, including the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and other pending legislation, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers in the financial industry. To the extent we need to raise additional capital, including for acquisitions or meeting increased capital requirements arising from growth in our brokerage business, we may not be able to obtain such additional financing on acceptable terms or on a timely basis, if at all. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our business, take advantage of future opportunities or acquisitions, respond to competitive pressure or meet contractual, regulatory or other unanticipated requirements and as a result, our ability to conduct our business may be adversely affected. Our credit agreement and our senior notes each contain restrictive covenants which may limit our working capital and corporate activities. We are a party to a credit agreement with Bank of America N.A. and certain other lenders which provides for maximum borrowings of $200 million (the "Credit Agreement"). Our Credit Agreement matures in December 2013. In addition, we have issued $60 million of senior secured notes (the "Senior Notes") which are due January 30, 2013. Our Credit Agreement and our Senior Notes impose 50 Table of Contents operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions which may, directly or indirectly, limit our ability to: •merge, acquire or dispose of assets; •incur liens, indebtedness or contingent obligations; •make investments; •engage in certain transactions with affiliates and insiders; •enter into sale and leaseback transactions; •pay dividends and other distributions or purchase shares of our common stock; and •enter into new lines of businesses that are substantially different from our current lines of business. In addition, our Credit Agreement and our Senior Notes contain covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy specified financial tests. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we may be limited in how we conduct our business, and we may be unable to raise additional financing, to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. We may not be able to remain in compliance with these covenants in the future. Our Credit Agreement and our Senior Notes also provide for several events of default, including for non-payment, certain bankruptcy events, covenant or representation breaches or a change in control. Risks Related to Owning Our Stock Jersey Partners has significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interest of our other stockholders. Jersey Partners Inc. ("JPI"), in which our chief executive officer and founder, Michael Gooch, is the controlling shareholder, owns approximately 41% of our outstanding common stock. Our president, Colin Heffron, is also a minority shareholder of JPI. As a result, through JPI, Michael Gooch has the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. This concentration of control could be disadvantageous to other stockholders with interests different from those of Michael Gooch. This concentration of voting power may have the effect of delaying or impeding actions that could be beneficial to our other stockholders, including actions that may be supported by our Board of Directors. The trading price for our common stock could be adversely affected if investors perceive disadvantages to owning our stock as a result of this significant concentration of share ownership. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, agreements to which we are a party, regulations to which we are subject and provisions of our equity incentive plans could delay or prevent a change in control of our company and entrench current management. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. In addition, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. For example, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws: •provide for a classified board of directors; 51 Table of Contents •do not permit our stockholders to remove members of our board of directors other than for cause; •do not permit stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; •require certain advance notice for director nominations and other actions to be taken at annual meetings of stockholders; •require supermajority stockholder approval with respect to extraordinary transactions such as mergers and certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws (including in respect of the provisions set forth above); and •authorize the issuance of "blank check" preferred stock by our board of directors without stockholder approval, which could discourage a takeover attempt. Under our Credit Agreement and our Senior Notes, a change in control may lead the lenders to exercise remedies such as acceleration of the loan and, in the case of the Credit Agreement, termination of their obligations to fund additional advances. Our brokerage businesses are heavily regulated and some of our regulators require that they approve transactions which could result in a change of control, as defined by the then-applicable rules of our regulators. The requirement that this approval be obtained may prevent or delay transactions that would result in a change of control. In addition, our equity incentive plans contain provisions pursuant to which our Board may, in its discretion, determine to accelerate the vesting of outstanding options or restricted stock units in the event of a change of control. If the Board determines to accelerate the vesting of these unvested grants, it could have the effect of dissuading potential acquirers from pursuing merger discussions with us. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, it may have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. We are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX") and the applicable SEC rules and regulations that require our management to conduct an annual assessment and to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must issue an attestation report addressing the operating effectiveness of the Company's internal controls over financial reporting. While our internal controls over financial reporting currently meet all of the standards required by SOX, failure to maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and the price of our common stock. We cannot be certain as to our ability to continue to comply with the requirements of SOX. If we are not able to continue to comply with the requirements of SOX in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC, PCAOB or FINRA. In addition, should we identify a material weakness, there can be no assurance that we would be able to remediate such material weakness in a timely manner in future periods. Moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and incur significant expenses to restructure our internal controls over financial reporting, which may have a material adverse effect on our Company and the price of our common stock. 52 Table of Contents We cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare and pay dividends at all or in any particular amounts and we may elect not to pay dividends in the future. Our Board of Directors has approved a policy of paying quarterly dividends, subject to available cash flow from operations, other considerations and the determination by our Board of Directors of the amount. However, there is no assurance that we will continue to declare and pay dividends at all or in any particular amounts and we may elect not to pay dividends in the future. Our dividend policy may be affected by, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, future capital requirements, level of indebtedness, contractual restrictions with respect to the payment of dividends, the issuance of special dividends from time to time, changes in tax rates and our determination to make certain investments or acquisitions. Our ability to declare a dividend is also subject to the limits imposed by Delaware corporate law, our Credit Agreement and our Senior Notes. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and future sales of our shares could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future depending upon many factors, including our actual results of operations and perceived prospects and the prospects of the financial marketplaces in general, differences between our actual financial and operating results and those expected by investors and analysts, changes in analysts' recommendations or projections, seasonality, changes in general valuations for companies in our business segment, changes in general economic or market conditions and broad market fluctuations. Future sales of our common stock also could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares, or if we issue a large number of shares of our common stock in connection with future acquisitions, strategic alliances, new or amended equity incentive plans or otherwise, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. Moreover, the perception in the public market that our stockholders, including JPI, might sell shares of common stock could depress the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2010, we had registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), an aggregate of 703,052 shares of our common stock which are reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options under our 2000 and 2002 Stock Option Plans. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, we had registered under the Securities Act an aggregate of 21,900,000 shares of our common stock available for issuance under our 2008 Equity Incentive Plan in connection with existing and new grants of restricted stock units, stock options or similar types of equity compensation awards to our employees. Based on outstanding grants at December 31, 2010, there are 7,652,296 shares of our common stock available for future grants of awards under the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan. These shares can be sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to any vesting requirements and restrictions under the securities laws applicable to resale by affiliates. These sales might impact the liquidity of our common stock and might have a dilutive effect on existing stockholders making it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. We may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill or other intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Accounting standards require periodic testing for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. While we have not recognized any impairment charges to date, any such non-cash charges in the future could have a material impact on our stockholders equity and our results of operations. The determination of the value of goodwill and intangible assets requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. We are required to test goodwill for impairment annually, or in interim periods if certain events occur indicating that the 53 Table of Contents carrying value may be impaired. We assess potential impairments to intangible assets when there is evidence that events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recovered. Our judgments regarding the existence of impairment indicators and future cash flows related to goodwill and intangible assets are based on several factors which include: the operational performance of any acquired businesses, management's current business plans which factor in current market conditions, market capitalization, the trading price of our common stock and trading volumes, as well as other factors. Management uses discounted cash flow analysis in their impairment assessments which involve the subjective selection and interpretation of data inputs, and given market conditions at the testing date, can include a very limited amount of observable market inputs available in determining the model. Changes to our business plan, increased macroeconomic weakness, declines in operating results and decreased market capitalization may result in our having to perform an interim goodwill impairment test or an intangible asset impairment test. These types of events and the resulting analysis could result in goodwill or intangible asset impairment charges in future periods. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 