Risk Factors" section. Without sufficient cash flow, future borrowings may not be available to us under the senior secured credit facilities in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity or capital needs. If we cannot generate sufficient cash to service our debt, we will have to take such actions as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. Any of these actions may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, the indentures (the "Indentures") for the 83/4% senior subordinated notes and our 101/2% senior discount notes (collectively, the "Notes") and the credit agreement for the senior secured credit facilities may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. The terms of the senior secured credit facilities and the Indentures may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to market changes or to take certain actions. Polypore's senior secured credit facilities and the indentures contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. For example, the senior secured credit facilities include covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees; engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations; or amend or otherwise alter terms of our indebtedness, including our Notes, and other material agreements. The senior secured credit facilities also include financial covenants, including requirements that we maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio and a maximum leverage ratio. The indentures also contains numerous negative covenants including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: incur or guarantee additional debt; issue preferred stock of restricted subsidiaries; pay dividends or make other equity distributions; or purchase or redeem capital stock. A breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with financial covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facilities or the Notes. If any such default occurs, the lenders and the holders of the Notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings and to proceed against all collateral granted to them to secure the debt. If collateral (such as available cash) is repossessed by the lenders or holders of the Notes, we will be unable to access the capital and other resources necessary to operate our business and we could incur immediate and significant losses. 16 Polypore International is the sole obligor of the 10.5% senior discount notes and our subsidiaries do not guarantee the obligations under, and do not have any obligation with respect to, such indebtedness. Polypore International is a holding company and does not have any material business assets or operations. All of our operations are conducted through our subsidiaries and, therefore, we are and will continue to be dependent on the cash flow of our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. Furthermore, we are the sole obligor of the 10.5% senior discount notes, and our subsidiaries do not guarantee our obligations under, and do not have any obligation with respect to, such indebtedness. Also, the terms of the senior secured credit facilities and the indenture governing the 8.75% senior subordinating notes significantly restrict our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to us. In addition, the 10.5% senior discount notes are effectively subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness and liabilities of our subsidiaries (including trade credit, the 8.75% senior subordinated notes and any indebtedness incurred under the secured credit facilities). The agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries and our dependence on their cash flow may impede us from funding scheduled interest and principal payments on the 10.5% senior discount notes when due, which could in turn impair our financial condition. Because a majority of our employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements, any employee slowdowns, strikes or failure to renew our collective bargaining agreements could disrupt our business. Approximately 59% of our employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements. A majority of those employees are located in Italy, France and Germany and are represented under industry-wide agreements that are subject to national and local government regulations. Many of these collective bargaining agreements must be renewed annually. Labor unions also represent our employees in Owensboro, Kentucky and Corydon, Indiana. The collective bargaining agreement covering the workers at the Owensboro facility expires in April 2008 and the agreement covering workers at the Corydon facility expires in January 2010. We may not be able to maintain constructive relationships with these labor unions. We may not be able to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms in the future. The loss of a substantial number of these employees or a prolonged labor dispute could disrupt our business. Any such disruption could in turn reduce our sales, increase our costs to bring products to market and result in significant losses. We generate most of our sales from manufacturing products that are used in a wide variety of industries and the potential for product liability exposure for our products could be significant. We manufacture a wide variety of products that are used in healthcare and consumer applications. Several of these products are used in medical devices that some consumers require in order to sustain their lives. As a result, we may face exposure to product liability claims in the event that the failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or death. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to make warranty payments or to participate in a recall involving those products. Consequently, end-users of our products may look to us for contribution when faced with product recalls, product liability or warranty claims. The future costs associated with defending product liability claims or providing product warranties could be material and we may experience material losses in the future as a result. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in any product recall could substantially reduce our available cash from operations. Reduced cash could in turn reduce our profits or impair our financial condition. 17 Our operations outside the United States pose risks to our business that are not present with our domestic business. Our manufacturing facilities in North America accounted for 39% of total net sales for fiscal 2006, with facilities in Europe accounting for 52% and facilities in Asia accounting for 9%. Typically, we sell our products in the currency of the country where the manufacturing facility that produced the products is located. In addition, as part of our growth and acquisition strategy, we may expand our operations in these or other foreign countries. Our foreign operations are, and any future foreign operations will be, subject to certain risks that are unique to doing business in foreign countries. These risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation, economic or political instability, shipping delays, changes in applicable laws and regulatory policies and various trade restrictions. All of these risks could have a negative impact on our ability to deliver products to customers on a competitive and timely basis. This could reduce or impair our sales, profits, cash flows and financial position. The future imposition of, or significant increases in the level of, customs duties, import quotas or other trade restrictions could also increase our costs and reduce our profits. We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws and violations of such laws may increase our costs or require us to change certain business practices. We use and generate a variety of chemicals and other hazardous by-products in our manufacturing operations. As a result, we are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These environmental laws govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges and the handling, storage and release of wastes and hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations can be complex and change often. We regularly incur costs to comply with environmental requirements, and such costs could increase significantly with changes in legal requirements or their interpretation or enforcement. Some of our manufacturing facilities have been the subject of actions to enforce environmental requirements. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and third-party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of environmental laws. Failure to comply with environmental requirements could also result in enforcement actions that materially limit or otherwise affect the operations of the facilities involved. Under certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of an environmentally contaminated site may be held liable for the entire cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials at such property. This liability could result whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials. Contaminants have been detected at some of our present facilities, principally in connection with historical operations. Investigations and/or clean-ups of these contaminants have been undertaken by us or by former owners of the sites. The costs of investigating and remediating environmental conditions at some of our facilities may be substantial. Although we believe we are entitled to contractual indemnification for a portion of these costs, if we do not receive expected indemnification payments, or if our remediation costs are higher than expected, our exposure to these costs would increase. This exposure could reduce our cash available for operations, consume valuable management time, and reduce our profits or impair our financial condition. We anticipate additional investigations and clean-ups of onsite contamination under regulatory supervision or voluntarily at some of our sites. In addition, the imposition of more stringent clean-up requirements, the discovery of additional contaminants or the discovery of offsite contamination at or from one or more of our facilities could result in significant additional costs to us. 18 If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, we could lose a significant competitive advantage. Our success with our products depends, in part, on our ability to protect our unique technologies and products against competitive pressure and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to ours. We may not receive patents for any of our patent applications and our existing or future patents that we receive or license may not provide competitive advantages for our products. Our competitors may challenge, invalidate or avoid the application of any existing or future patents, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights that we receive or license. In addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. The loss of protection for our intellectual property could reduce the market value of our products, reduce product sales, and lower our profits or impair our financial condition. We intend to enforce our intellectual property rights vigorously, and from time to time we may initiate claims against third parties that we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights if we are unable to resolve matters satisfactorily through negotiation. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could seriously harm our business. Due to the unique products that we produce and the particular industry in which we operate, the loss of our senior management could disrupt our business. Our senior management is important to the success of our business. There is significant competition for executive personnel with unique experience in the separation and filtration membrane industry. As a result of this unique need and the competition for a limited pool of industry-based executive experience, we may not be able to retain our existing senior management. In addition, we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract additional senior management personnel. All of our executive officers are free to pursue other business opportunities (other than our chief executive officer, who is bound by a non-compete provision of his employment agreement), including those that may compete with us. The loss of any member of our senior management without retaining a suitable replacement (either from inside or outside our existing management team) could disrupt our business. We may pursue future acquisitions. If we incur contingent liabilities and expenses or additional debt in connection with future acquisitions or if we cannot effectively integrate newly acquired operations, our business could be disrupted. We may enter into acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations and that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. Future acquisitions would likely result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities. Such acquisitions could also increase our interest and amortization expenses as well as periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Acquisitions could also result in significant charges relating to integration costs. We may not be able to integrate successfully any business we acquire into our existing business. Any acquired businesses may not be profitable or as profitable as we had expected. The successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business. This could decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers and develop new products and services. In addition, because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen 19 expenses, complications and delays. Such expenses and delays could include difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. Our inability to complete the integration of new businesses in a timely and orderly manner could increase costs, reduce our profits and ultimately disrupt our business. We have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. As a result of our acquisitions, our net identifiable intangible assets at December 30, 2006 were approximately 14% of our total assets. Such assets include trademarks and trade names, license agreements and technology acquired in acquisitions. Goodwill, which relates to the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately 41% of our total assets at December 30, 2006. Both goodwill and identifiable intangible assets increased substantially as a result of the Transactions. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition and, under FASB Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of the acquired business, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations. These changes include changes that restrict the activities of the acquired business and a variety of other circumstances. The amount of any impairment must be written off. We may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets would reduce our profits for the fiscal period in which the write-off occurs. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural disasters, epidemics, terrorist acts and other events beyond our control, which would adversely affect our business. Our operations may be subject to significant interruption if any of our facilities is damaged or destroyed. For example, certain of our products are manufactured at a single facility location for which we do not maintain a backup manufacturing facility. A natural or other disaster, such as a fire or flood, could significantly disrupt our operations, delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment for the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our manufacturing facilities, which could be lengthy, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities. In addition, concerns about terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases such as avian influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome, especially in our major markets of North America, Europe and Asia could have a negative effect on travel and our business operations, and result in adverse consequences on our sales and financial performance. Warburg Pincus controls us. Affiliates and designees of Warburg Pincus Private Equity VIII, L.P. and Warburg Pincus International Partners, L.P. (collectively, "Warburg Pincus") control Polypore International. Warburg Pincus is able to cause the election of all of the members of our board of directors, cause the appointment of new management and cause the approval of any action requiring the approval of our stockholders, including amendment of our certificate of incorporation and mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. The directors elected by Warburg Pincus are able to make decisions affecting our capital structure, including decisions to issue additional capital stock, implement stock repurchase programs and declare dividends. In addition, our equity holders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to other equity holders or debt holders. Furthermore, Warburg Pincus may in the future own businesses that directly compete with ours. For information concerning the composition of our management team, see "Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance." 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 