Risk Factors Related To Our Common Stock Our common stock has only traded since November 2, 2007 and our stock price is likely to be volatile. Our common stock has only traded since November 2, 2007. The market prices for securities of telecommunications companies have historically been volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • passage of various laws and governmental regulations governing communications-related services and Internet-related services; • a decrease in the amount of traffic we carry or the rates we charge for such traffic; • failure of or disruption to our physical infrastructure or services; • conditions or trends in the Internet, technology and communications industries; • the addition or departure of any key employees; • the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage of our common stock; • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations of us by any research analyst that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; • litigation involving ourselves or our general industry or both; • investors’ general perception of us, our services, the economy and general market conditions; • developments or disputes concerning our patents or other proprietary rights; and • the announcement of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors. 31 Table of Contents If any of these factors cause an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition, the price of our common stock could fall. In addition, public announcements by our competitors regarding, among other things, their performance, strategy, accounting practices, or legal problems could cause the price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. Changes in our capital structure and level of indebtedness and the terms of such indebtedness could adversely affect our business and liquidity position. Our level of indebtedness, including borrowings under our credit agreement, may increase from time to time for various reasons, including fluctuations in operating results, capital expenditures and possible acquisitions. Future consolidated indebtedness levels could materially affect our business by: • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to be dedicated to interest payments on such indebtedness, and thereby not available for other purposes; • materially limiting or impairing our ability to obtain further financing; • reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to take advantage of business opportunities that may arise; and • further limiting our ability to pay dividends. In addition, our credit agreement limits our ability to enter into various transactions. If we were to default on any of our indebtedness, or if we were unable to obtain necessary liquidity, our indebtedness would become due and payable immediately and our business could be adversely affected. Anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law and in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could diminish the value of our common stock and could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult or could impede an attempt to replace or remove our directors. We are a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our management or control over us that stockholders may consider favorable or make it more difficult for stockholders to replace directors even if stockholders consider it beneficial to do so. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares to thwart a takeover attempt; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow holders of less than a majority of the stock to elect some directors; • require that directors only be removed from office for cause and by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the total votes eligible to be cast in the election of directors; • require that vacancies on the board of directors, including newly-created directorships, be filled only by a majority vote of directors then in office; • limit who may call special meetings of stockholders; • authorize the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval, subject to the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all actions to be taken at a meeting of the stockholders; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominating candidates for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters. 32 Table of Contents In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may inhibit potential acquisition bids for us. Section 203 regulates corporate acquisitions and limits the ability of a holder of 15% or more of our stock from acquiring the rest of our stock. Under Delaware law a corporation may opt out of the anti-takeover provisions, but we do not intend to do so. These provisions may prevent a stockholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 