risk factors to reflect future events or unanticipated occurrences. Risks Related to Our Chapter 11 Filing We filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on January 22, 2008 and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with the Bankruptcy. For the duration of the Bankruptcy, our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. These risks include our ability to continue as a going concern; operate within the restrictions and the liquidity limitations of the DIP Credit Agreement; obtain Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to motions filed in the Bankruptcy from time to time; develop, confirm and consummate a plan of reorganization; obtain and maintain normal payment terms with vendors and service providers and maintain contracts that are critical to our operations; attract, motivate and retain key employees; attract and retain customers; and fund and execute our business plan. We will also be subject to risks and uncertainties with respect to the actions and decisions of the Debtors’ creditors and other third parties who have interests in the Bankruptcy that may be inconsistent with our plans. These risks and uncertainties could affect our businesses and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with the Bankruptcy could adversely affect our relationships with our vendors and employees, as well as with customers, which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Also, pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code, we need Bankruptcy Court approval for transactions outside the ordinary course of business, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities. Because of the risk and uncertainties associated with the Bankruptcy, we cannot predict or quantify the ultimate impact that events occurring during the reorganization process will have on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, and there is no certainty about our ability to continue as a going concern. 10 Table of Contents As a result of the Bankruptcy, realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities are subject to uncertainty. While operating under the protection of the Bankruptcy Code, and subject to Bankruptcy Court approval or otherwise as permitted in the normal course of business, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets, reject certain leases or other executory contracts and liquidate or settle liabilities for amounts other than those reflected in the consolidated financial statements. Further, a plan of reorganization could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in the historical consolidated financial statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of confirmation of a plan of reorganization. A long period of operating under Chapter 11 may harm our business. A long period of operating under Chapter 11 could adversely affect our business and operations. So long as the Bankruptcy continues, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the Bankruptcy instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. A prolonged period of operating under Chapter 11 will also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our business. In addition, the longer the Bankruptcy continue, the more likely it is that our vendors will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize our businesses and they may seek to establish alternative arrangements for providing us with goods, including alternative payment arrangements, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and/or results of operations. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of our Chapter 11 plan. In order to successfully emerge from Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, we believe that we must develop, and obtain requisite court and creditor approval of, a viable Chapter 11 plan of reorganization. This process requires us to meet certain statutory requirements with respect to adequacy of disclosure with respect to a plan, soliciting and obtaining creditor acceptance of a plan, and fulfilling other statutory conditions for confirmation. We may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm such a plan. Even if the requisite acceptances of a plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm it. If a plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our businesses and what, if any, distributions to holders of claims against us, including holders of our 121/2% Senior Notes, would ultimately receive with respect to their claims. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, it is possible that we would have to liquidate our assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if we were to emerge as a viable, reorganized entity. The DIP Credit Agreement includes financial and other covenants that impose substantial restrictions on the Debtors’ financial and business operations. The DIP Credit Agreement includes financial covenants that, among other things, require us to achieve certain levels of EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, as defined in the facility). If we are unable to achieve the results that are contemplated in our business plan, we may be unable to comply with the EBITDA covenant. Furthermore, the DIP Credit Agreement restricts our ability to, among other things, contract or incur additional indebtedness, make investments (including acquisitions) or sell assets. If we fail to comply with the covenants in the DIP Credit Agreement and are unable to obtain a waiver or amendment of the DIP Credit Agreement, an event of default will occur thereunder. The DIP Credit Agreement contains other events of default customary for DIP financings, including a change of control event of default. We continuously monitor our compliance with the financial covenants in the DIP Credit Agreement and, as of July 2, 2008, we were in compliance with these covenants. Subsequent to July 2, 2008, we became aware that, depending on our future results, we may not maintain the minimum consolidated EBITDA required under the terms of the DIP Credit Agreement and therefore may breach that covenant. Accordingly, we initiated discussions with the lenders under the DIP Credit Agreement to amend or waive such covenant. As a result of those discussions, on September 26, 2008, we entered into a Forbearance Agreement and Second Amendment to Credit Agreement (the “Forbearance Agreement”). Under the Forbearance Agreement, the administrative agent and the lenders agreed to forbear from exercising their default-related rights and remedies with respect to the potential breach of the minimum consolidated EBITDA covenant through October 15, 2008 and to amend the EBITDA covenant thresholds for the remaining term of the agreement. The agreement calls for a 1.0% increase in the annual interest rate paid with respect to the New Money Loan from LIBOR plus 7.25% to LIBOR plus 8.25%. The LIBOR rate will float throughout the life of the DIP Credit Agreement, provided that at no time during the life of the DIP Credit Agreement will the applicable LIBOR rate for amounts outstanding under the New Money Loan of the DIP Credit Agreement be less than 4.0% per annum or greater than 5.0% per annum. The interest rate on the rollover loans remains unchanged under the Forbearance Agreement. The Forbearance Agreement also requires the Company to pay certain fees to the agents and lenders thereunder, as more fully described in the Forbearance Agreement. The Forbearance Agreement is subject to Bankruptcy Court approval, which is expected to occur on October 15, 2008. There are no assurances that we will be successful in obtaining Bankruptcy Court approval and failure to obtain such approval could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to obtain approval of the agreement and an event of default were to occur under the DIP Credit Agreement, the lenders would be permitted to accelerate the repayment of amounts outstanding under the New Money Loans and letters of credit outstanding under our Letter of Credit Reimbursement and Security Agreement dated February 27, 2008, subject to the availability of certain cure periods. If the lenders under the DIP Credit Agreement accelerate the maturity of the facility, we will be unable to make such payments unless we can find other sources of financing or capital. We believe it will be extremely difficult to obtain alternative financing or additional capital. In addition, our ability to enter into agreements for alternative sources of financing is subject to the approval of the Bankruptcy Court. Failure to repay the amounts due under the DIP Credit Agreement upon acceleration would significantly impede our ability to remain in Chapter 11 and could force us into liquidation. In a liquidation, holders of our 12.5% Senior Notes may not receive any value for their holdings. Even if we are able to refinance or repay the amounts due under the DIP Credit Agreement upon acceleration, such a repayment would severely impact our liquidity which would make it difficult to operate our business. Furthermore, even if we obtain approval of the Forbearance Agreement, there can be no assurance that we will continue to remain in compliance with the amended covenants. We face uncertainty regarding the adequacy of our capital resources, including liquidity, and have limited access to additional financing. In addition to the cash requirements necessary to fund ongoing operations, we have incurred significant professional fees and other costs in connection with the Bankruptcy and expect that we will continue to incur significant professional fees and costs. As of August 27, 2008, the end of our second fiscal period for fiscal year 2009, we had approximately $71.6 million of cash on-hand and no amounts available for borrowing under the DIP Credit Agreement. We cannot guarantee that the amounts of cash available from operations together with our DIP Credit Agreement will be sufficient to fund operations until such time as we are able to propose a plan of reorganization that will receive the requisite acceptance by creditors and be confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. In the event that cash flows and available cash are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we may be required to seek additional financing. We can provide no assurance that additional financing would be available or, if available, offered on acceptable terms. 11 Table of Contents As a result of the Bankruptcy and the circumstances leading to the bankruptcy filing, our access to additional financing is, and for the foreseeable future will likely continue to be, very limited. Our long-term liquidity requirements and the adequacy of our capital resources are difficult to predict at this time and ultimately cannot be determined until a plan of reorganization has been developed and is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court in the Bankruptcy. A plan of reorganization may result in holders of our 121/2% Senior Notes receiving no distribution on account of their interests and cancellation of their Senior Notes. Under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code, unless creditors agree otherwise, post-petition liabilities and certain pre-petition liabilities must be satisfied in full before the holders of our 121/2% Senior Notes will be entitled to receive any distribution or retain any property under a plan of reorganization. The ultimate recovery to creditors, including the noteholders, if any, will not be determined until confirmation of a plan or plans of reorganization. No assurance can be given as to what values, if any, will be ascribed in the Bankruptcy to the 121/2% Senior Notes or what types or amounts of distributions, if any, the noteholders would receive. A plan of reorganization could result in holders of our 121/2% Senior Notes receiving no distribution on account of their interests and cancellation of their existing notes. If certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code are met, a plan of reorganization can be confirmed notwithstanding its rejection by the noteholders and notwithstanding the fact that such noteholders do not receive or retain any property on account of their interests under the plan. Therefore, an investment in our 121/2% Senior Notes is highly speculative. Risks Related to Our Business Our core steak-buffet restaurants are a maturing restaurant concept and face intense competition. Our restaurants operate in a highly competitive industry comprising a large number of restaurants, including national and regional restaurant chains and franchised restaurant operations, as well as locally-owned, independent restaurants. Price, restaurant location, food quality, service and attractiveness of facilities are important aspects of competition, and the competitive environment is often affected by factors beyond a particular restaurant management’s control, including changes in the public’s taste and eating habits, population and traffic patterns and economic conditions. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we have and there are few non-economic barriers to entry. Therefore, new competitors may emerge at any time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our competitors in the future or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or earnings. We have been operating our core buffet restaurant concept since 1983 and the Ryan’s restaurant chain acquired in November 2006 dates its operations to 1978. The median age of our core steak-buffet restaurants is approximately thirteen years. As a result, we are exposed to vulnerabilities associated with being a mature concept. These include vulnerability to innovations by competitors and out-positioning in markets where the demographics or customer preferences have changed. Mature units require greater expenditures for repair, maintenance, refurbishments and re-concepting, and we will be required to continue making such expenditures in the future in order to preserve traffic at many of our restaurants. We cannot be sure that these expenditures, particularly for remodeling and refurbishing, will be successful in preserving or building guest counts. If our competitors in the casual dining, mid-scale and quick-service segments respond to any economic changes by adopting discount pricing strategies, it could have the effect of drawing customers away, thereby reducing sales and pressuring margins. Because certain elements of our cost structure are fixed in nature, particularly over shorter time horizons, changes in marginal sales volume can have a more significant impact on our profitability than for a business operating in a more variable cost structure. 12 Table of Contents We are dependent on attracting and retaining qualified employees while controlling labor costs. We operate in the service sector and are therefore extremely dependent upon the availability of qualified restaurant personnel. Availability of staff varies widely from location to location. If restaurant management and staff turnover trends increase, we would suffer higher direct costs associated with recruiting, training and retaining replacement personnel. Moreover, we could suffer from significant indirect costs, including restaurant disruptions due to management changeover, increased above-store management staffing and potential delays in new store openings due to staff shortages. Competition for qualified employees exerts pressure on wages paid to attract qualified personnel and raises recruiting expenses, resulting in higher labor costs. Many of our employees are hourly workers whose wages may be impacted by an increase in the federal or state minimum wage. Legislation is regularly introduced at federal and state levels to increase minimum wage levels. On January 10, 2007, the federal government approved federal minimum wage increases according to the following schedule: $5.85 on July 24, 2007, $6.55 on July 24, 2008 and $7.25 on July 24, 2009. In addition, fifteen states in which we operate enacted minimum wage increases during the current fiscal year. An increase in the minimum wage may create pressure to increase the pay scale for our employees. A shortage in the labor pool, competition for employees or other general inflationary pressures or changes could also increase our labor costs. Furthermore, the operation of buffet-style restaurants is materially different than other restaurant concepts. Consequently, the retention of executive management familiar with our core buffet business is important to our continuing success. The departure of one or more key operations executives or the departure of multiple executives in a short time period could have an adverse impact on our business. Our workers’ compensation and employee benefit expenses are disproportionately concentrated in states with adverse legislative climates. Our highest per-employee workers’ compensation insurance costs are in California, where we retain a large employment presence. Various states have considered legislation that would require large employers to provide health insurance or equivalent funding for workers who have traditionally not been covered by employer health plans. Other potential state and federal mandates, such as compulsory paid absences, increases in overtime wages and unemployment tax rates, stricter citizenship requirements and revisions in the tax treatment of employee gratuities, could also adversely affect our business. Any increases in labor costs could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and could decrease our profitability and cash available to service our debt obligations, if we were unable to compensate for such increased labor costs by raising the prices we charge our customers or realizing additional operational efficiencies. We are dependent on timely delivery of fresh ingredients by our suppliers. We are also substantially dependent on a limited number of food distributors. Our restaurant operations are dependent on timely deliveries of fresh ingredients, including fresh produce, dairy products and meat. The cost, availability and quality of the ingredients we use to prepare our food are subject to a range of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Fluctuations in weather, supply and demand and economic and political conditions could adversely affect the cost, availability and quality of our ingredients. Historically, when operating expenses increased due to inflation or increases in food costs, we have been able to recover these increased costs by increasing our menu prices. However, we may not be able to recover increased costs in the future because competition may limit or prohibit such future increases. If our food quality declines due to the lack, or lower quality, of our ingredients or due to interruptions in the flow of fresh ingredients and similar factors, customer traffic may decline and negatively affect our restaurants’ results of operations. We rely exclusively on third-party distributors and suppliers for such deliveries. The number of companies capable of servicing our distribution needs on a national basis has declined over time, reducing our bargaining leverage and increasing vulnerability to distributor interruptions. In addition, our suppliers typically provide trade credit to us in connection with our purchases. Among our major third party suppliers, as of year-end, one provided the majority of the food products to approximately 47% of our restaurants. Furthermore, one of our major distributors filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in July 2008. If significant suppliers or distributors are unable to perform their agreements with us, or if the agreements with such parties are suddenly and unexpectedly terminated, or if the terms by which we purchase products are significantly amended in a manner adverse to us, supply costs could increase and disruptions in distribution could occur during the transition to other food suppliers which could have an adverse affect on our business, liquidity and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our restaurant sales are subject to seasonality and major world events. Our restaurant sales volume fluctuates seasonally. Overall, restaurant sales are generally higher in the summer months and lower in the winter months although seasonality varies by geographic area. Positive or negative trends in weather conditions can have a strong influence on our business. This effect is heightened because many of our restaurants are in geographic areas that experience extremes in weather, including severe winter conditions and tropical storm patterns. Increases in gasoline prices also have a negative impact on our business as they may decrease customers’ discretionary spending and their dining out expenditures. Additionally, major world developments and other significant events that distract consumers from traditional spending patterns may adversely affect our business. Our business is affected by changes in consumer preferences and consumer discretionary spending. The restaurant industry is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. If consumers seek out other dining alternatives rather than visit our restaurants, whether due to shifts in dietary trends, health emphasis or otherwise, our business could be hurt. In addition, negative publicity about our products could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends to a significant extent on consumers having ready access to discretionary income. Discretionary spending can be influenced by a large number of factors, including changes in general economic conditions or consumer confidence. Significant declines in consumer confidence or in the amount of funds available for discretionary spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could experience declines in sales and profits during economic downturns, when energy prices are high, or due to concerns related to terrorism, for example. Escalating gasoline prices could motivate customers to visit our restaurants less frequently, alter their dining-out patterns or cause them to spend less when they do decide to dine away from home. Other factors that could reduce consumers’ discretionary spending could include increased borrowing costs due to adverse mortgage rate adjustments, credit card liability or other debt service expense. Current restaurant locations may become unattractive, and attractive new locations may not be available for a reasonable price, if at all. The success of any restaurant depends, in substantial part, on its location. There can be no assurance that current locations will continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. Neighborhood or economic conditions where restaurants are located could decline in the future, thus resulting in potentially reduced sales in these locations. We face risks associated with government regulations. In addition to wage and benefit regulatory risks, we are subject to other extensive government regulation at federal, state and local levels. These include, but are not limited to, regulations relating to the sale of food in all of our restaurants and of alcoholic beverages in our Tahoe Joe’s Famous Steakhouse® restaurants. We are required to obtain and maintain governmental licenses, permits and approvals. Difficulty or failure in obtaining or maintaining them in the future could result in delaying or canceling the opening of new restaurants or the closing of current ones. Local authorities may suspend or deny renewal of our governmental licenses if they determine that our operations do not meet the standards for initial grant or renewal. This risk would be even higher if there were a major change in the licensing requirements affecting our types of restaurants. The Federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. Mandated modifications to our facilities in the future to make different accommodations for disabled persons could result in material, unanticipated expense. State “dram shop” statutes generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated patron the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. Application of these statutes to our operations, or liabilities otherwise associated with liquor service in our Tahoe Joe’s Famous Steakhouse® restaurants, could negatively affect our financial condition if not otherwise insured. 14 Table of Contents Negative publicity relating to one of our restaurants, including our franchised restaurants, could reduce sales at some or all of our other restaurants. We are, from time to time, faced with negative publicity relating to food quality, restaurant facilities, restaurant closures, health inspection scores, employee relationships or other matters at one of our restaurants or those of our franchisees. Adverse publicity may negatively affect us, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are liable. In addition, the negative impact of adverse publicity relating to one restaurant may extend beyond the restaurant involved to affect some or all of our other restaurants. If a franchised restaurant fails to meet our franchise operating standards, our own restaurants could be adversely affected due to customer confusion or negative publicity. A similar risk exists with respect to totally unrelated food service businesses, if customers mistakenly associate such unrelated businesses with our own operations. Food-borne illness incidents could result in liability to us and could reduce our restaurant sales. We cannot guarantee that our internal controls and training will be fully effective in preventing all food-borne illnesses. Furthermore, our reliance on third-party food processors makes it difficult to monitor food safety compliance and increases the risk that food-borne illness would affect multiple locations rather than single restaurants. Some food-borne illness incidents could be caused by third-party food suppliers and transporters outside of our control. New illnesses resistant to our current precautions may develop in the future, or diseases with long incubation periods could arise that could give rise to claims or allegations on a retroactive basis. In addition, the levels of chemicals or other contaminants that are currently considered safe in certain foods may be regulated more restrictively in the future or become the subject of public concern. The reach of food-related public health concerns can be considerable due to the level of attention given to these matters by the media. Local public health developments and concerns over diseases such as avian flu and E. coli could have a national adverse impact on our sales. Similarly, concerns related to particular food constituents or the byproducts of cooking processes could also have an adverse impact. This could occur whether or not the developments are specifically attributable to our restaurants or those of our franchisees or competitors. Any negative development relating to our self-service food service approach would have a material adverse impact on our primary business. Our steak-buffet restaurants have a service format that is heavily dependent upon self-service by our customers. Food tampering by customers or other events affecting the self-service format could cause regulatory changes or changes in our business pattern or customer perception. Any development that would materially impede or prohibit our continued use of a self-service approach, or reduce the appeal of self-service to our guests, would have a material adverse impact on our primary business. We face risks associated with environmental laws. We are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances relating to the protection of the environment, including those that govern the cleanup of contaminated sites and activities or operations that may have adverse environmental effects, such as discharges to air and water, as well as handling and disposal practices for solid and hazardous wastes. These laws and regulations may impose liability for the costs of cleaning up, and damage resulting from, sites contaminated by past spills, disposals or other releases of hazardous materials. We could incur such liabilities, including resulting cleanup costs, regardless of whether we lease or own the restaurants or land in question and regardless of whether such environmental conditions were created by us or resulted from historical operations of a prior owner or tenant or other third parties. Significant expense could also arise in relation to governmental regulations involving the handling and storage of hazardous materials, response planning for environmental contingencies and the reporting of environmentally related occurrences. We cannot guarantee that our obligations relating to our prior, existing or future restaurants or restaurant sites will not have a material adverse affect on us. 15 Table of Contents We face risks because of the number of restaurants that we lease. Our success depends in part on our ability to secure leases in desired locations at rental rates we believe to be reasonable. We currently lease all of our restaurants located in shopping centers and malls, and we lease the land and/or building for all but 22 of our freestanding restaurants. In connection with the Bankruptcy, we have rejected several leases and renegotiated terms on several more. Each of our lease agreements provides that the lessor may terminate the lease for a number of reasons, including our default in any payment of rent or taxes or our breach of any covenant or agreement in the lease. Termination of any of our leases could harm our results of operations and, as with a default under any of our indebtedness, could have a material adverse impact on our liquidity. Although we believe that we will be able to renew the existing leases that we wish to extend, there is no assurance that we will succeed in obtaining extensions in the future at rental rates that we believe to be reasonable or at all. Moreover, if some locations should prove to be unprofitable, we could remain obligated for lease payments even if we decide to withdraw from those locations. We will incur special charges relating to the closing of such restaurants, including lease termination costs. Impairment charges and other special charges will reduce our profits. We may not be able to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights. We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights. However, the actions taken by us may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our brands, proprietary rights and concepts by others, which may thereby dilute our brands in the marketplace or diminish the value of such proprietary rights, or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. In addition, others may assert rights in our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Our exclusive rights to our trademarks are subject to the common law rights of any other person who began using the trademark (or a confusingly similar mark) prior to both the date of our registration and our first use of such trademarks in the relevant territory. We cannot guarantee that third parties will not assert claims against our intellectual property or that we will be able to successfully resolve such claims. Future actions by third parties may diminish the strength of our restaurant concepts’ trademarks or other proprietary rights and decrease our competitive strength and performance. We could also incur substantial costs to defend or pursue legal actions relating to the use of our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operation or financial condition. Complaints or litigation may hurt us. We are from time to time subject to employee claims alleging injuries, wage and hour violations, discrimination, harassment or wrongful termination, as well as customer and third party claims. In recent years, a number of restaurant companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal and state law regarding workplace, employment and similar matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Currently, we are the subject of several collective-action lawsuits, including those related to Ryan’s pre-acquisition, that are described in Item 3. “Legal Proceedings” elsewhere in this report. Regardless of whether any claims against us are valid or whether we are ultimately determined to be liable, claims may be expensive to defend and may divert time and money away from our operations and hurt our financial performance. A significant judgment for any claim(s) could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We are controlled by a single shareholder and its interests may conflict with yours. Through their ownership of approximately 77.4% of the outstanding common stock of Buffets Restaurants Holdings, Caxton-Iseman Investments L.P. and its affiliates effectively control our business by virtue of their voting power with respect to the election of our directors. Our majority shareholder may undertake actions that are not in the best interests of specific interested parties. As a result of our Bankruptcy, our majority shareholder’s ability to act unilaterally has been impaired. We may have continued failure of internal controls over financial reporting. We maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting that is reviewed and monitored by our management and our Board of Directors. As of the end of fiscal year 2008, our management identified certain material weaknesses in our system of internal controls surrounding the preparation of our tax provision caused by a failure of both manual input and formulaic processes. This material weakness resulted in the material misstatement of financial statement information in fiscal years 2007 and 2008. The tax provision review controls did not detect the error which resulted in a financial statement restatement of the 2007 fiscal year Form 10-K and the first quarter of fiscal year 2008 Form 10-Q. 16 Table of Contents We have taken remedial measures to correct such control deficiencies. We have devoted significant resources to document, test, monitor and improve our internal controls over financial reporting and will continue to do so; however, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that our controls are adequate in the future or that the controls will be effective in preventing fraud or material misstatement. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results and fraud may be easier to perpetrate against us. Any failures in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations. Our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. We are required to evaluate goodwill and other intangibles for impairment whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows or at least annually. This evaluation requires the use of projections of future cash flows from the reporting segment. These projections are based on growth rates, anticipated future economic conditions, the appropriate discount rates relative to risk and estimates of residual values. If changes in growth rates, future economic conditions, discount rates or estimates of residual values were to occur, goodwill and other intangibles may become impaired. This could result in material charges that could be adverse to our operating results and financial position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 