Item 1A. Risk Factors Our profitability is subject to risks described under this section on "Risk Factors" described below. Although the following are not necessarily the only ones facing our company, our business, financial condition or results of operations they could be materially adversely affected by many of the following risks. 13 Risks Related to Our Business · We depend heavily on sales to our significant customers, and our business could be adversely affected if any of them reduced or terminated purchases from us. A limited number of large orthopedic device manufacturers, all of whom are our customers, control the predominant share of the orthopedic device market. We depend heavily on revenue from these large companies. Revenue from our ten largest customers represented approximately 71.3% of our revenue in fiscal year 2010 and 73.1% of our revenue in fiscal year 2009. Our largest customer accounted for approximately 31.7% of our revenue in the fiscal year 2010 and 39.1% in fiscal 2009. We expect that we will continue to depend on a limited number of large customers for a significant portion of our revenue. Our sales may be impacted by significant changes in our customers' market share, cyclicality, unpredictability of their new product launch activity and possible changes in their supply chain management. Many healthcare companies are consolidating to create new companies with greater market power. As the healthcare industry continues to consolidate, our customers may delay demand as they integrate operations and products. A consolidation of our customers may also impact demand for our products as the consolidated company implements their supply chain management philosophy. Consolidation of our competitors may also increase pressure as they combine product and services offerings. Consolidation of our customers or competitors may increase pricing pressure or reduce our revenue, either of which would impact our operating results. · If we are unable to continue to improve our current products and develop new products, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products or our products could become obsolete, and our business would be adversely affected. We sell our products to customers in markets that are characterized by technological change, product innovation and evolving industry standards. We are continually engaged in product development and improvement programs, both in collaboration with our customers and independently. Our customers may engage in additional in-house development and manufacturing, and if the product advances we make are not sufficient for their needs, they may instead rely on internal capabilities. In addition, our independent competitors may produce products that are more appealing to our customers and thereby impair our ability to compete effectively with them. Our competitors' product development capabilities could also become more effective than ours, and their new products may get to market before our products, may be more effective or less expensive than our products or render our products obsolete. Increased regulatory pressures and longer approval processes may also impair our ability to develop and assist our customers in developing innovative products, or to do so on a commercially effective timeline. If one or more of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. · We face competition from our customers' in-house capabilities, established independent suppliers and potential new market entrants, and if we lose customers it could have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. Our customers have varying degrees of development and manufacturing capabilities, and one or more of them may seek to expand their in-house capabilities in the future, including adding capacity in existing sites or expanding into low labor cost areas such as Asia. Many of our customers are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do and can commit significant resources to product development and manufacturing. Many of our independent competitors are smaller companies, many of which have close customer relationships and either a low cost structure or highly specialized design or production capabilities. Our independent competitors may continue to consolidate and some of our current and future competitors, either alone or in conjunction with their respective parent corporate groups, may have financial resources and research and development, sales and marketing and manufacturing capabilities or brand recognition that are greater than ours. In addition, the innovative nature of our markets may attract new entrants to the field. Our products may not be able to compete successfully with the products of other companies, which could result in the loss of customers and, as a result, decreased revenue and operating results. · If product liability lawsuits are brought against us or our customers our business may be harmed. The manufacture and sale of our healthcare and other products, including our aerospace products, expose us to potential product liability claims and product recalls, including those which may arise from misuse or malfunction of, or design or manufacturing flaws in, our products, or use of our products with components or systems not manufactured by us. Product liability claims or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or otherwise require us to pay significant damages, which could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. The product liability insurance that we carry is limited in scope and amount and may not be adequate to protect us against product liability claims. We may be unable to maintain this insurance at reasonable costs and on reasonable terms, if at all. 14 · Any claims beyond our insurance coverage may result in substantial costs and a reduction in its available capital resources. The Company maintains property insurance policies covering physical damage to its equipment, facilities, buildings and inventory; employer’s liability insurance generally covering death or work injury of employees; product liability insurance covering product liability claims arising from the use, consumption or operation of its products; general liability insurance covering certain incidents to third parties that occur on or in the premises of the Company; business interruption insurance, and directors and officers liability insurance, among others. The Company does not maintain key man life insurance on any of its senior management or key personnel. The Company’s insurance coverage, however, may not be sufficient to cover all claims. · Our direct sales efforts may be impaired by consolidation of customers or an inability to compete with regard to pricing or products. The Company’s direct sales success relies upon its ability to provide products to customers on competitive price, delivery and quantity terms. Some of our customers utilize a single or small group of suppliers, and some producers utilize a small or limited group of distributors. If consolidation in the hospital industry continues we may lose customers that are absorbed into larger hospital companies that work with a limited number of competitive suppliers, of whom we are not a member. In addition, our competitors may provide products similar to ours on a more price competitive basis, or we may find that we are unable to secure necessary products on a price or quantity basis required by our customers. Further, we may be unable to secure distribution rights for products required by our customers, causing them to consolidate their purchasing with competitors who are able to provide such products. Finally, some of the producers for whom we provide distribution services might decide to sell directly to customers, bypassing our distribution services. If any of these events should occur, it could impair our direct sales business and cause a decline in revenue and profit. · Our operating results are subject to significant potential fluctuation and historical results should not be relied on as an indication of our future results. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year in the future due to a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: o the timing of significant orders and shipments, including the effects of changes in inventory management practices by our customers; o the number, timing and significance of new products and product introductions and enhancements by us, our customers and our competitors; o changes in pricing policies by us and our competitors; o changes in medical treatment or regulatory practices; o delays caused by the regulatory approval process for our new products; o restrictions and delays caused by regulatory review of our customers' products; o our ability to meet customer demand for certain products or types of product; o recalls of our customers' products; o availability and cost of raw materials; and o general economic factors. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. We cannot assure you that our revenue will increase or be sustained in future periods or that we will be profitable in any future period. Any shortfalls in revenue or earnings from levels expected by securities or industry analysts could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock in any given period. · If we do not retain key individuals and retain and attract skilled manufacturing workers, we may not be able to operate successfully, and we may not be able to meet our strategic objectives. Our success depends in part upon the retention of key managerial, sales and technical personnel, particularly skilled manufacturing workers. We compete for such personnel with other companies and other organizations, many of which are larger and have greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we do. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our current personnel or in hiring or retaining qualified personnel in the future. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate successfully. We compete with numerous precision manufacturing companies to attract and retain qualified and highly skilled manufacturing employees. Our Northeast Indiana facilities, in particular, face significant and increasing competition, including from certain of our customers and other companies, including orthopedic related start-up companies located in or near Warsaw, Indiana. Some of these competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. If we are not able to retain and attract skilled manufacturing employees, we may be unable to support our anticipated growth, which could adversely affect our profitability. 15 · A significant shift in technologies or methods used in the treatment of damaged or diseased bone and tissue could make our products obsolete or less attractive. The development of new technologies could reduce or shift demand for our products. For example, pharmaceutical advances could result in non-surgical treatments gaining more widespread acceptance as a viable alternative to orthopedic implants. The emergence of successful new biological tissue-based or synthetic materials to regenerate damaged or diseased bone and to repair damaged tissue could minimize or delay the need for implant surgery and provide other biological alternatives to orthopedic implants. New surgical procedures could diminish demand for our instruments or implants. New sterilization methods could also limit the demand for our sterilization cases. Any of these or other shifts in technologies or methods used in the treatment of damaged or diseased bone and tissue could adversely affect demand for our products. · We depend on third party suppliers, and in some cases a single third party supplier, for key components and raw materials used in our manufacturing processes and the loss of these sources could harm our business. We use plastic, titanium, cobalt chrome, stainless steel and nickel alloys, and various other raw materials in our products. Although we generally believe these materials are readily available from multiple sources, from time to time we rely on a limited number of suppliers and in some cases on a single source vendor. For example, we obtain patented Radel® R plastic, which is designed to withstand intense heat produced during frequent sterilizations, for use in our instrument handles and plastic cases from a single supplier. Further, some of our raw materials are produced in areas of the world that are subject to political and other disruptions that could impair supply. Any supply interruption in a limited or sole-sourced component or raw material could materially harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply, if any, could be found. Further, our efforts to cover such materials could be costly and impair our ability to meet our contractual obligations for certain products on a profitable basis. We may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time period or on commercially reasonable terms if at all. This could interrupt our business, cause us to become involved in litigation with suppliers or customers, impair our profitability and/or reduce the quality of our products. · Our current or future levels of indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business, finance acquisitions and pursue new business strategies. As of January 1, 2011, our total indebtedness, including short-term debt, long-term debt and capital lease obligations was $95.3 million and we had $113.0 million of our $200.0 million revolving credit facility remaining available. Additionally, we have the ability, subject to lender approval, to increase the capacity of the revolving credit facility by $100.0 million. Our revolving credit facility, maturing in November 2015, contains covenants limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the future we may incur additional debt to finance acquisitions, business opportunities, capital expenditures or other capital requirements. Our indebtedness could: · make us more vulnerable to unfavorable economic conditions; · make it more difficult to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; · make us susceptible to fluctuations in market interest rates that affect the cost of our borrowings to the extent that our variable rate debt is not covered by interest rate derivative agreements; and · make it more difficult to pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances and collaborations. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors. Some of these factors are beyond our control. We believe that, based upon current levels of operations, we will be able to meet our debt service obligations when due. Significant assumptions underlie this belief, including, among others, that we will continue to be successful in implementing our business strategy and that there will be no material adverse developments in our business, liquidity or capital requirements. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness and to meet our other obligations and commitments, we may be required to refinance our debt or to dispose of assets to obtain funds for such purpose. We cannot be certain that refinancing or asset dispositions could be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt instruments. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness or other obligations in the future, the risks associated with our indebtedness described above, including our possible inability to service our debt, would increase. 16 · Our revolving line of credit contains restrictions that limit our ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt, make acquisitions and make other investments. Our revolving line of credit contains covenants that restrict our ability to make distributions to stockholders or other payments unless we satisfy certain financial tests and comply with various financial ratios. If we do not satisfy these tests or comply with these ratios, our creditors could declare a default under our debt instruments, and our indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. Our ability to comply with the provisions of our revolving line of credit may be affected by changes in economic or business conditions beyond our control. Our revolving line of credit also contains covenants that limit our ability to incur indebtedness, invest in our foreign operations, acquire other businesses and make capital expenditures, and impose various other restrictions. These covenants could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. We may be unable to comply with the foregoing financial ratios or covenants and, if we fail to do so, we may be unable to obtain waivers from our lenders. · Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future through debt or equity offerings. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: o revenue generated by sales of our products; o expenses incurred in manufacturing and selling our products; o costs of developing new products or technologies; o costs associated with capital expenditures; o costs associated with our expansion; o costs associated with regulatory compliance, including maintaining compliance with the quality system regulations imposed by the FDA; o the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; o working capital requirements related to growing new acquisitions or existing business; o expansion of our international or domestic facilities; and o costs of litigation or other legal issues that arise. As a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds, and these funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or convertible debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business strategy, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. · We may not realize all of the sales expected from new product development programs. We incur substantial expenses in developing and testing new products and related devices. Our realization of additional revenue from new product development efforts is inherently subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, including, directly or indirectly, end-user acceptance of the product, reimbursement approval of third-party payers such as Medicaid, Medicare and private insurers and, in some cases, FDA or comparable foreign regulatory approval of the product. In addition, our customers typically have no contractual requirement to purchase from us the products that we develop, and they could seek to have another supplier or in-house facility manufacture products that we have developed (or substitutes for them). We also incur costs and make capital expenditures for new product development and production based upon certain estimates of production volumes for our existing and anticipated products. If the actual demand for our products is less than planned, our revenue and net income may decline. · Our earnings would be negatively impacted if we write off goodwill or intangible assets created as a result of our various acquisitions. As a result of acquisitions we have accumulated a substantial amount of goodwill, amounting to $154.2 million as of January 1, 2011, or approximately 34.3% of our total assets as of such date. Goodwill and certain intangible assets are not amortized but rather are tested for impairment by us annually or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances develop that would likely result in impairment. Examples of such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal or business climate, an adverse regulatory action, unanticipated competition or financial restatements. 17 · If we are unable to obtain or retain technology required to produce our products, our business could be harmed. We hold licenses with third parties that are necessary to utilize certain technologies used in the design and manufacturing of some of our products. We also need to obtain access to the latest technology in production and manufacturing, which we plan to do through licensing new techniques and processes, or acquiring new machinery. It may be that we are unable to retain our current licenses, or that we will not be able to acquire access to new technologies on a cost efficient basis, if at all. The loss of such licenses, or inability to obtain new technology would prevent us from manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, which could harm our business. · If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and property rights, or are subject to intellectual property claims by third parties, our business could be harmed. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyrights, know-how, trademarks, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights to our technologies and products. We cannot guarantee that the steps we have taken or will take to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate or that they will deter infringement, misappropriation or violation of our intellectual property. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any litigation could result in substantial expenses and may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, the laws of some of the countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our products and intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws, or at all. We may be unable to protect our rights in trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology in these countries. If our trade secrets become known, we may lose our competitive advantages. We seek to protect our trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part, with confidentiality agreements with our employees, independent distributors and customers. We cannot confirm, however, that: o these agreements will not be breached; o we will have adequate remedies for any breach; or o trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by our competitors. In addition, third parties may claim that we are infringing, misappropriating or violating their intellectual property rights. We could be found to infringe those intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to manufacture any affected product. In addition, any protracted litigation to defend or prosecute our intellectual property rights could drain our financial resources, divert the time and effort of our management and cause customers to delay or limit their purchases of the affected product until resolution of the litigation. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and could harm our reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: o cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which could adversely affect our revenue; o obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and o redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming if it is possible to do so. · We are subject to risks resulting from significant changes to product or manufacturing process within our industry. Our industry relies on existing technology to create implants and associated instruments. Our business may be impacted if there is a significant, game changing, technological manufacturing process or product innovation which is protected by intellectual property and we are not able to react to this change or we are locked out of the new technology by intellectual property that is owned by our competitors. · We are subject to risks associated with our foreign operations. We have significant international operations and we continue to expand and grow these operations. We have operations in the United Kingdom, France, Ireland and Malaysia. Certain risks are inherent in international operations, and could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or profitability, including, but not limited to: o difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; 18 o foreign customers who may have longer payment cycles than customers in the United States; o tax rates in certain foreign countries that may exceed those in the United States and foreign earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country; o general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate or where end users of orthopedic devices reside; o difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; o changes in governmental approaches to foreign industry; o changes in tax, training or other incentives upon which we relied (or rely) in deciding to do business in a particular country; o wars, insurrections or other strife; o difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights; and o compliance obligations under a variety of foreign laws and regulations. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or our business as a whole. · Efforts to acquire additional companies or product lines may divert our managerial resources away from our business operations, and if we complete additional acquisitions, we may incur or assume additional liabilities or experience integration problems. In the past five years, we have completed six acquisitions. In the future, we may seek to acquire additional businesses or product lines for various reasons, including providing new product manufacturing capabilities, adding new customers, increasing penetration with existing customers or expanding into new geographic markets. Our ability to successfully grow through additional acquisitions depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financings. These additional efforts could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and integration of our recently completed acquisitions. If we complete additional acquisitions, we may also experience: § difficulties integrating any acquired companies, personnel and products into our existing business; § delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products; § diversion of our management's time and attention from other business concerns; § limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; § higher costs of integration than we anticipated; § difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these businesses; § difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout our acquired companies; or § adverse customer reaction to the business combination. Additional acquisitions could also materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt and acquisition expenses or requiring us to amortize acquired assets. · Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenue and financial results. We generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Currency exchange rates are subject to fluctuation due to, among other things, changes in local, regional or global economic conditions, the imposition of currency exchange restrictions and unexpected changes in regulatory or taxation environments. To the extent that we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs incurred in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on our financial results. · We may be adversely affected as a result of the long lead times required for sales of certain new products. We often compete for business at the beginning of the development of new medical devices or upon customer redesign of existing medical devices. Our customers generally must obtain clearance or approval from the FDA before commercially distributing their products. Unless exempt, a new medical device must be approved for commercial distribution in the United States by the FDA through the 510(k) pre-market Notification Process or, in some cases, through the more burdensome pre-market approval, or PMA, process. In recent years it has taken three to nine months from the date of submission to the FDA to obtain 510(k) clearance and one to three years from the date of submission to the FDA to obtain approval through the PMA process, but in each case the approval may take significantly longer. This results in long lead times for some of our customers' new products, which may make it difficult in the short term for us to obtain sales of new products to replace any unexpected decline in sales of existing products. 19 · We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages, other labor matters, or new labor laws. Currently, none of our facilities are unionized. However, over the last 10 years, our employees at two of our locations have attempted to unionize. In addition, some of our orthopedic device customers have unionized work forces. While we have not experienced any adverse effects from work stoppages or slow-downs at our customers' facilities, work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by us, our suppliers or our customers or their suppliers could result in slow-downs or closures of facilities where our products are made or used. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter strikes, further unionization efforts, new labor laws, or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. · If a natural or man-made disaster strikes one or more of our manufacturing facilities, we may be unable to manufacture certain products for a substantial amount of time and our revenue could decline. We have sixteen manufacturing facilities located in the United States, United Kingdom, France, Ireland and Malaysia. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment and personnel know-how that we use to produce our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. In the event that one or more of our facilities was affected by a disaster, we would be forced to attempt to shift production to our other manufacturing facilities or rely on third-party manufacturers, and our other facilities or a third-party manufacturer may not have the capability to effectively supply the affected products. Although we have insurance for damage to our property and the interruption of our business, this insurance may not be sufficient in scope or amount to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. · The prolonged period of financial difficulties over the past several years and uncertainty in global economic conditions could continue to adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Over the last several years, the United States and other countries around the world have experienced deteriorating and uncertain economic conditions, including unprecedented financial market disruption. If this trend in economic conditions does not continue to improve or reverts to further deterioration, it could lead to delayed or decreased demand for our product. It may additionally adversely affect our customers' access to capital, willingness to spend capital on our products, or ability to pay for products they will order or have already ordered from us. It could also impair our access to markets, capital on favorable terms, access to raw materials, and other difficulties. Furthermore, if our suppliers face challenges in selling their products or otherwise in operating their businesses, they may become unable to continue to offer the key components and raw materials needed in our manufacturing processes. The foregoing may impact our business, accuracy of our forecasts, profitability and have other adverse impacts on our results. · We may experience difficulties, delays or unexpected costs from consolidation of facilities. We may be required to further consolidate our operations in order to improve our cost structure, achieve increased operating efficiencies, and improve our competitive standing or results of operations and/or to address unfavorable economic conditions. We may also lose favorable tax incentives or not be able to renew a lease on acceptable terms, resulting in the need to consolidate. As part of these actions, we may further reduce staff, make changes to certain capital projects, close certain production operations and abandon leases for certain facilities that will not be used in our operations. In conjunction with any actions, we will continue to make significant investments and build the framework for our future growth. We may not realize, in full or in part, all of the anticipated benefits and savings from these efforts due to unforeseen difficulties, delays or unexpected costs. If we are unable to achieve or maintain all of the resulting savings or benefits to our business or other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. As a result of the global economic downturn, we have worked and will continue to work to increase cost efficiencies and to reduce discretionary expenditures, and in the event the economy does not continue to recover, or if it further deteriorates, we may also be required to consider further steps to improve our cost structure. Additionally, the anticipated benefits of our cost reduction initiatives are based on forecasts which could vary substantially from actual results, and we cannot provide assurance that any such cost saving initiatives will not have a material adverse effect on our business. 20 · Significant changes to U.S. federal, state and foreign tax laws and regulations that apply to our operations and activities could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our operations are subject to the tax laws, regulations and administrative practices of the United States, U.S. state jurisdictions and other countries in which we do business. Significant changes in these rules could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations. For example, our effective tax rate reflects the impact of undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are intended to be invested indefinitely outside the United States. Substantial reform of U.S. tax law regarding tax on certain foreign profits could result in an increase in our effective tax rate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Risks Related to Our Industry · Orthopedic device manufacturers have significant leverage over their independent suppliers and consolidation could increase their leverage, which could result in the loss of customers or force us to reduce our prices. We compete with many distributors and manufacturers to develop and supply implants, surgical instruments and cases to a limited number of large orthopedic device manufacturers. As a result, orthopedic device manufacturers have historically had significant leverage over their independent suppliers. For example, independent suppliers like us are subject to continuing pressure from the major orthopedic device manufacturers to reduce the cost of products while maintaining quality levels. In the past, the medical device industry has experienced substantial consolidation. If the medical device industry, and the orthopedic device industry in particular, continue to consolidate, competition to provide products to orthopedic device manufacturers may become more intense. Orthopedic device manufacturers may seek to use their market power to negotiate price or other concessions for our products. If we are forced to reduce prices or if we lose customers because of competition, our revenue and results of operations would suffer. · Our business is indirectly subject to healthcare industry cost containment measures and other industry trends affecting pricing that could result in reduced sales of or prices for our products. Acceptance of our customers' products by hospitals, outpatient centers and physicians depend on, among other things, reimbursement approval of third-party payers such as Medicaid, Medicare and private insurers. The continuing efforts of government, insurance companies and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce those costs could lead to lower reimbursement rates or non-reimbursement for medical procedures that use our products. As that occurs, medical device manufacturers might insist that we lower prices on products related to the affected medical device or they might significantly reduce or eliminate their purchases from us of these related products, which could affect our profitability. · We and our customers are subject to substantial government regulation that is subject to change and could force us to make modifications to how we develop, manufacture and price our products. The medical device industry is regulated extensively by governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign regulatory agencies. Some of our manufacturing processes are required to comply with quality systems regulations, including current good manufacturing practice and quality system requirements that cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of our products. Further, some of our facilities, records and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic unscheduled inspections by the FDA or other agencies. Failure to comply with applicable medical device regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, repairs, replacements, refunds, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspensions of production, refusal of the FDA or other regulatory agencies to grant future pre-market clearances or approvals, withdrawals or suspensions of current clearances or approvals and criminal prosecution. In addition, orthopedic implants and other medical devices produced by our customers are subject to intensive regulation and potential pre-approval requirements by the FDA and similar international agencies that govern a wide variety of product activities from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. Recently, the FDA has imposed more significant requirements on supplier control procedures that may require additional audits, process validations and potentially increased costs to get products to market. Compliance with these regulations may be time consuming, burdensome and expensive for our customers and, indirectly, for us to the extent that our customers' compliance depends on our operations. These regulations could negatively affect our customers' abilities to sell their products, which in turn would adversely affect our ability to sell our products. This may result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated revenue. The regulations to which we and our customers are subject are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and state levels. Recently, the FDA has proposed a substantial 510(k) reform amendment that could change significantly the requirements and review process. The FDA may also review all current and past 510(k)’s to assure they are compliant to current regulatory requirements. In addition, these regulations may contain proposals to increase governmental involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates or otherwise change the environment in which healthcare industry participants operate. Foreign governmental authorities that regulate the manufacture and sale of medical devices have become increasingly stringent and, to the extent we sell our products in foreign countries, we may be subject to rigorous regulation in the future. Regulatory changes could result in restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations, higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated revenue. 21 · If our customers fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, FDA clearances or approvals to commercially distribute our future products our ability to sell our products could suffer. Some of our medical devices are subject to rigorous regulatory pre-approval by the FDA and other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. Our customers are typically responsible for obtaining the applicable regulatory approval for the commercial distribution of our products. The process of obtaining this approval, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that our customers will obtain the required approvals on a timely basis, if at all. The FDA, for example, assigns medical devices to one of three classes which determine, among other things, the type and degree of FDA approval required to commercially distribute the device in the United States. We produce Class I, II and III devices. Class I devices are deemed to present little risk to patients and are generally exempt from FDA approval requirements. Class II devices can generally be commercially distributed only after the device has received 510(k) clearance. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if certain design, testing and validation requirements are met and it is demonstrated that the device is "substantially equivalent" to a device that was legally marketed prior to May 28, 1976, or to another commercially available device subsequently cleared through the 510(k) Pre-Market Notification process. This process generally takes three to six months, but recently has taken substantially longer, up to nine months or longer, due to increased review time and scrutiny of requirements to assure a more safe and effective product. Before a Class III device can be commercially distributed in the United States, a pre-market approval, or PMA, must be obtained from the FDA. The PMA process can be expensive and uncertain, requires detailed and comprehensive scientific and other data and generally takes between one and three years, but may take significantly longer. The commercial distribution of any products we develop that require regulatory clearance may be delayed. In addition, because we cannot assure you that any new products or any product enhancements we develop for commercial distribution in the United States will be exempt from the FDA market clearance requirements or subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, the regulatory approval process for our products or product enhancements may take significantly longer than anticipated by us or our customers. · We may be adversely affected by the impact of environmental and safety regulations. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and occupational health and safety, including laws regulating air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the management and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could incur fines, penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Environmental laws tend to become more stringent over time, and we could incur material expenses in the future relating to compliance with future environmental laws. In addition, we could be held responsible for costs and damages arising from any contamination at our past or present facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites. Such costs could be material. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur material liabilities as a result of any contamination or injury. · The impact of the recently enacted federal healthcare reform legislation on our business remains uncertain. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress adopted and President Obama signed into law comprehensive health care reform legislation through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act (H.R. 3590) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (H.R. 4872). Among other initiatives, these bills impose a 2.3% excise tax on domestic sales of medical devices following December 31, 2012, which is estimated to contribute approximately $27 billion to healthcare reform. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. The excise tax may impact results of operations following December 31, 2012, however we cannot predict with certainty what healthcare initiatives, if any, will be implemented at the state level, or what the ultimate effect of federal health care reform or any future legislation or regulation will have on us. Many of the details of the new law will be included in new and revised regulations, which have not yet been promulgated, and require additional guidance and specificity to be provided by the Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Labor and Department of the Treasury. Accordingly, while it is too early to understand and predict the ultimate impact of the new legislation on our business, the legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. 22 · Changing laws and increasingly complex corporate governance and public disclosure requirements could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Changing laws, regulations and standards, including those relating to corporate governance and public disclosure such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and newly enacted SEC regulations, have created additional compliance requirements for companies such as ours. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are like to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock · Our common stock may be volatile and could decline substantially. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of companies operating in the medical device industry, including our company, which has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Price declines in our common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including: o actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; o our announcements or our competitors' announcements regarding new products, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments o loss of any of our key management or technical personnel; o conditions affecting orthopedic device manufacturers or the medical device industry generally; o product liability lawsuits against us or our customers; o clinical trial results with respect or our customers' medical devices; o changes in our growth rates or our competitors' growth rates; o developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights, or those of our competitors; o FDA and international actions with respect to the government regulation of medical devices and third-party reimbursement practices; o public concern as to the safety of our products; o changes in health care policy in the United States and internationally; o conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; o our inability to raise additional capital; o changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or the medical device industry generally, or lack of analyst coverage of our common stock; o sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and five percent stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of common stock; o changes in accounting principles; and o announcement of financial restatements. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company's securities or financial restatements, litigation has often been brought against that company. If litigation of this type is brought against us, it could be extremely expensive and divert management's attention and the Corporation's resources. · Our Certificate of Incorporation, our Bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our Certificate of Incorporation and our Bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: o providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms; o requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws; o eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; o prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; o establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; o limiting the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal the by-laws; and o authorizing of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and shares of our common stock. 23 We are also protected by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents us from engaging in a business combination with a person who becomes a 15.0% or greater stockholder for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such status unless certain board or stockholder approvals were obtained. · As a result of our 2007 discovery of accounting irregularities at our Sheffield, UK operating unit and the related restatement, the SEC is conducting an informal investigation, which may not be resolved favorably. Following the discovery of the accounting irregularities at our Sheffield, UK operating unit, the Audit Committee self-reported the matter to the staff of the SEC in October 2007. Thereafter, the SEC commenced an informal inquiry regarding this matter. We have fully cooperated with the SEC in its investigation. At this time we are unable to predict the time period necessary to resolve the investigation or the ultimate resolution thereof. To date, considerable legal, tax and accounting expenses have been incurred in connection with our Audit Committee's investigation into this matter and expenditures may continue to be incurred in the future with regard to the SEC's investigation. It is also possible that the investigation may continue to require management's time and attention and accounting and legal resources, which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. Moreover, any action by the SEC against us, or members of our management, may cause us to be subject to injunctions, fines and other penalties or sanctions or result in private civil actions, loss of key personnel or other adverse consequences and may require us to devote additional time and resources to these matters. The investigation may adversely affect our ability to obtain, and/or increase the cost of obtaining, directors' and officers' liability insurance and/or other types of insurance, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the SEC investigation and the remedies applied may affect certain of our business relationships and consequently may have an adverse effect on our business in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 