Item 1A. Risk Factors. Industry cyclicality, especially fluctuations in the supply of broiler products, affects the prevailing market price of broiler products, our sales and our earnings. Profitability in the broiler industry is materially affected by the prevailing price of broiler products, which is primarily determined by supply and demand factors in the market. In recent years, including fiscal 2006, the profitability of companies in the broiler industry has been adversely affected from time to time by excess supplies of broiler products in the market. As a result of the efficiencies in the U.S. broiler market, even modest increases in the broiler supply in the United States can significantly decrease the market prices at which we can sell our broiler products. Such increases in domestic supply can arise, and have occurred in late fiscal 2005 and in fiscal 2006, as a result of unanticipated decreases in export demand, among other reasons. Given the perishable nature of broiler products, we are unable to manage inventories to address any short-term changes in market prices. As a result, from time to time we are forced to sell our broiler products at a loss. Because we sell a relatively small percentage of our products under fixed-price contracts, increases in the overall supply of broiler products and any related decrease in broiler prices adversely affect our operating results. This has resulted and will continue to result in fluctuations in our earnings. Fluctuations in commodity prices of feed ingredients materially affect our earnings. A significant portion of the cost of producing our broiler products consists of amounts spent in connection with purchasing corn and soybean meal, our primary feed ingredients. As a result, fluctuations in feed ingredient prices materially affect our earnings. While prices of these items increase from time to time, we may not be able to pass through any increase in the cost of feed ingredients to our customers, particularly if increased prices for feed ingredients coincide with periods of excess supplies of broiler products. High feed ingredient prices have had a material adverse effect on our operating results in the past. Since the end of fiscal 2006, prices for corn and soybean meal have increased. We periodically seek, to the extent available, to enter into advance purchase commitments or commodity futures contracts for the purchase of a portion of our feed ingredients in an effort to manage our feed ingredient costs. However, the use of such instruments may not be successful in limiting our exposure to market fluctuations in the cost of feed and may limit our ability to benefit from favorable price movements. Furthermore, the production of feed ingredients is positively or negatively affected by weather patterns throughout the world, the global level of supply inventories and demand for feed ingredients, the availability and cost of transportation, as well as the agricultural policies of the United States and foreign governments. In particular, weather patterns often change agricultural conditions in an unpredictable manner. A sudden and significant change in weather patterns could affect the supply of feed ingredients, as well as both the industry’s and our ability to obtain feed ingredients, grow broilers and deliver products. We believe that high energy prices have led to significantly increased demand for ethanol, the primary raw ingredient of which is corn. This has, in turn, led to significant increases in the price of corn. Additionally, we believe that large scale speculators in the futures markets can influence prices for feed ingredients. Any such change or influence could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” 8 Table of Contents Whether or not the merger with Pilgrim is completed, the announcement and pendency of the merger could cause disruptions in our business, which could adversely affect our operations and results. Whether or not the merger with Pilgrim is completed, the announcement and pendency of the merger could cause disruptions in our business. Specifically: • current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company, which might adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key managers and other employees; • the attention of management may be directed toward the completion of the merger; and • current or potential customers may delay or modify decisions regarding new programs or changes in services, products or providers. These disruptions could be exacerbated by a delay in the completion of the merger or termination of the merger agreement and could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results if the merger is not completed. Outbreaks of livestock diseases, particularly an outbreak of avian influenza among humans, could adversely affect our business. Events beyond our control, such as the outbreak of disease, could significantly restrict our ability to conduct our operations and adversely affect our business. An outbreak of disease could result in governmental restrictions on the import and export of our fresh broiler products, pork or other products to or from our suppliers, facilities or customers, or require us to destroy one or more of our flocks. This could result in the cancellation of orders by our customers and create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products successfully and on our business, reputation and prospects. For example, because several chickens in Delaware and Texas tested positive for avian influenza in 2004, several countries imposed import bans and the infected flocks were destroyed. If a similar outbreak were to occur in areas where our contract growers are located, we may be forced to destroy our flocks, even if those flocks were not infected. See “—Foreign embargos, decreased export demand, oversupply of broiler products and competing products and bans on exported chicken and livestock would have an adverse effect on our business.” These risks are particularly acute if an outbreak of a livestock disease, such as avian influenza, were to occur among humans. Although avian influenza is not spread through the consumption of cooked chicken, increased media attention regarding the risks of avian influenza or consumer panic in the event of a serious outbreak of avian influenza among humans could result in reduced demand for our products. In fact, outbreaks of avian influenza that occurred internationally in 2005 and 2006 caused demand for our products in affected countries to decrease. In addition, the risk of an avian influenza outbreak or pandemic flu among humans or the perceived risk of such an outbreak could result in aggressive action by the governments of the United States and the countries to which we export our products to limit the spread of such an outbreak. Government action in response to an avian influenza outbreak among humans could adversely affect our ability to export our products and impose burdensome regulations on our operations or those of our contract growers, which would in turn increase our costs of doing business. Significant competition in the broiler industry with other vertically integrated broiler companies, especially companies with greater resources, may make us unable to compete successfully in this industry, which would adversely affect our business. The broiler industry is highly competitive. Some of our competitors have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. In general, the competitive factors in the U.S. broiler industry include price, product quality, brand identification, breadth of product line and customer service. Competitive factors vary by major market. In the foodservice market, we believe competition is based on consistent quality, product development, customer service and price. In the U.S. retail market, we believe that competition is based on product quality, brand awareness, customer service and price. We also face competition from non-vertically integrated further processors with regard to our further-processed products. The highly competitive conditions in the broiler industry could force us to reduce prices for our products, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The loss of one of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Sales to our top ten customers represented approximately 45.1% of our net sales during fiscal 2006 and during such period, approximately 14.2% of our net sales were to our largest customer. We do not have long-term contracts with any of our major customers and, as a result, any of our major customers could significantly decrease or cease their business with us with limited or no notice. If we lost one or more of our major customers, or if one or more of our major customers significantly decreased its purchases from us, our business, sales and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Foreign embargos, decreased export demand, oversupply of broiler products and competing products and bans on exported chicken and livestock would have an adverse effect on our business. We are an exporter to Russia, Eastern Europe, Commonwealth of Independent States, Asia, the Pacific Rim, the Middle East, Africa, South and Central America, Mexico and the Caribbean Islands. Any decrease in exports to foreign countries based on 9 Table of Contents embargos, decreased demand, oversupply of broiler products or competing products or bans on exported chicken may have an adverse effect on our ability to export chicken and other products. Such occurrences would also likely increase the supply of broilers and competing products in the United States, which would likely result in lower prices for broiler products and could adversely affect our business. For example, in 2002 and 2003, export sales to Russia declined due to an embargo on certain imported meats, leading to a domestic oversupply and a decrease in the market price of chicken. In 2005 and 2006, concerns regarding avian influenza decreased export demand in many of the counties to which we export products. During fiscal 2006, export sales to Russia declined significantly due to reduced demand in Russia caused by avian influenza. The decrease in exports to Russia contributed to domestic oversupply and a decrease in the market price of chicken. Russia has import quotas on chicken and other meats that reduce U.S. broiler imports to approximately 70% of 2002 levels. In addition, for several months in 2004, China, Japan and several smaller chicken importing countries banned all imports of broiler products from the United States due to several chickens in Delaware and Texas testing positive for avian influenza. Also as a result of this event, Russia and Hong Kong banned the import of broiler products from Delaware and Texas for a period of time. Any implementation of similar bans in the future or the implementation of quotas or other import restrictions or decrease in export demand could adversely affect our domestic and export sales and our results of operations. Immigration legislation could cause our costs of doing business to increase or cause us to change the way in which we do business. Immigration legislation continues to be considered by the United States Congress. It is likely that the new Congress will address the immigration issue during the session that begins in January 2007. In addition to the federal legislation, some states are considering, and the State of Georgia, where we have operations, has passed, immigration legislation. While we believe the new Georgia legislation will not alter the way we conduct our business, the details of the regulations that will implement the law have not been finalized, including the documentation required for an employee to prove he or she is eligible for employment. We currently participate in the United States government Basic Pilot Program for verifying a person’s employment eligibility, but that government program may not be the approved method for employment eligibility verification under the Georgia law. If proposed federal immigration legislation becomes law or if states in which we do business enact and enforce immigration laws, such laws may contain provisions that could make it more difficult or costly for Gold Kist to hire legal immigrant workers. In such case, we may incur additional costs to run our business or may have to change the way we conduct our operations, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may experience difficulties with the implementation of our Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) software and related manufacturing process changes. We are implementing a new ERP system that includes accounting, material resource planning, production planning, inventory management and certain other functions. This is a complex, multi-step implementation. If there are problems with the implementation, there could be significant disruption in plant processes causing inefficient production, delays in financial reporting and Sarbanes-Oxley 404 compliance issues, which could adversely affect our operating results. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims and liabilities under environmental, health, safety and other laws and regulations, which could be significant. Our operations are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health, safety and other laws and regulations, including those governing air emissions, wastewater discharges and the use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials. The applicable requirements under these laws are subject to amendment, to the imposition of new or additional requirements and to changing interpretations by governmental agencies or courts. In addition, we anticipate increased regulation by various governmental agencies concerning food safety, the use of medication in feed formulations, the disposal of animal by-products and wastewater discharges. Furthermore, business operations currently conducted by us or previously conducted by others at real property owned or operated by us, business operations of others at real property formerly owned or operated by us and the disposal of waste at third party sites expose us to the risk of claims under environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. For example, we have received notice letters designating us as a potentially responsible party for alleged environmental contamination at a site that we previously owned. Other properties we own or owned in the past have been designated for cleanup under federal and state environmental remediation statutes, which could result in further liabilities to us. In addition, we are subject to potential claims for residual environmental liabilities arising out of our sale of our Agri-Services business in 1998. The agreements related to our disposition of certain properties require that we indemnify the buyer of such properties with regard to any associated environmental liabilities. We could incur material costs or liabilities in connection with claims related to any of the foregoing. The discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, changes in environmental, health, safety and other laws and regulations, enforcement of existing or new laws and regulations and other unanticipated events could give rise to expenditures and liabilities, including fines or penalties, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The Department of Labor in 2006 contacted many members of the U.S. poultry industry, including Gold Kist, who were included in a wage and hour audit initiated by the U.S. Department of Labor in 2000. The Department of Labor has been of the opinion that many poultry companies have not been accurately compensating employees for the time spent on such activities as donning and doffing work equipment. Following the recent Supreme Court decision in IBP, Inc. v. Alvarez, 546 U.S. 21 (2005), the Department of Labor has reasserted its concerns in this area. We have been reviewing our operations and pay practices to determine 10 Table of Contents the appropriate response to the Department of Labor. Prior to being contacted by the Department of Labor, we designed plans which were implemented in May 2006 to modify practices at our facilities to address concerns described by the Supreme Court and the Department of Labor. As of September 30, 2006, we have not reserved any amounts in this matter because we do not believe a loss is considered probable or estimable. If our products become contaminated, we may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls. Our products may be subject to contamination by disease producing organisms, or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes, Salmonella and generic E. coli. These pathogens are found generally in the environment and, therefore, there is a risk that they, as a result of food processing, could be present in our processed products. These pathogens can also be introduced to our products as a result of improper handling at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. These risks may be controlled, but may not be eliminated, by adherence to good manufacturing practices and finished product testing. We have little, if any, control over proper handling procedures once our products have been shipped for distribution. Even if a product is not contaminated when it leaves our facility, illness and death may result if the pathogens are not also eliminated at the further processing, foodservice or consumer level. Increased sales of further-processed products could lead to increased risks in this area. Even an inadvertent shipment of contaminated products is a violation of law and may lead to increased risk of exposure to product liability claims, product recalls (which may not entirely mitigate the risk of product liability claims) and increased scrutiny by federal and state regulatory agencies and may have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation and prospects. We have anti-takeover defenses that could make it more difficult for another company to acquire control of Gold Kist or limit the price investors might be willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws delay removal of incumbent directors and can make it more difficult to successfully complete a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. These provisions include our Shareholder Rights Agreement, commonly known as a “poison pill”. Provisions in our Certificate of Incorporation give our Board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely effected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from acquiring, the majority of outstanding voting stock. In addition, the staggered terms of our Board of Directors could have affect of delaying or deferring a change in control. In addition, certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the DGCL, including Section 203 of the DGCL, may have the affect of delaying or preventing changes in control for management of Gold Kist. The above factors may have the affect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in control for management of Gold Kist, including transactions in which our stockholders may otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. Increased water, energy and gas costs would increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. We require a substantial amount, and as we expand our business we will require additional amounts, of water, electricity and natural gas to produce and process our broiler products. The prices of water, electricity and natural gas fluctuate significantly over time and prices for natural gas in the first half of 2006 were at historically high levels particularly due to disruptions caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. One of the primary competitive factors in the U.S. broiler market is price, and we may not be able to pass on increased costs of production to our customers. As a result, increases in the cost of water, electricity or natural gas could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Increased costs of transportation would negatively affect our profitability. Our transportation costs are a material portion of the cost of our products. We primarily ship our products and receive our inputs via truck and rail and rely on third party transportation companies for the delivery of most of our products and inputs. The costs associated with the transportation of our products and inputs fluctuate with the price of fuel, the costs to our transportation providers of labor and the capacity of our transportation sources. Increases in costs of transportation have and could in the future negatively affect our profitability. We are exposed to risks relating to product liability, product recalls, property damage and injury to persons for which insurance coverage is expensive, limited and potentially inadequate. Our business operations entail a number of risks, including risks relating to product liability claims, product recalls, property damage and injury to persons. Insurance for these risks is expensive and difficult to obtain, and we may not be able to maintain this insurance in the future on acceptable terms, in amounts sufficient to protect us against losses due to any such events or at all. 11 Table of Contents Moreover, our insurance coverage may not adequately protect us from all of the liabilities and expenses that we incur in connection with such events. If we were to suffer a loss that is not adequately covered by insurance, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Any acquisition we make could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We may seek to expand our business through the acquisition of companies, technologies, products and services from others. Acquisitions may involve a number of problems, including: • difficulty integrating acquired technologies, operations and personnel with our existing business; • diversion of management attention in connection with negotiating acquisitions and integrating the businesses acquired; • exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and • necessity of obtaining additional debt financing for any acquisition. We may not be able to address these problems and successfully develop these acquired companies or businesses into profitable units of Gold Kist. The loss of key members of our management may adversely affect our business. We believe our continued success depends on the collective abilities and efforts of our senior management. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies on any of our employees. The loss of one or more key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Additionally, if we are unable to find, hire and retain needed key personnel in the future, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The inability to maintain good relations with our employees could adversely affect our business. As of September 30, 2006, we had approximately 16,800 employees, approximately 2,600 of which are covered by collective bargaining agreements and approximately 385 of which are members of labor unions. We may be unable to maintain good relationships with these labor unions or to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms in the future. If we fail to maintain good relationships with our employees generally or with such labor unions or fail to negotiate satisfactory collective bargaining agreements, or if non-unionized operations were to become unionized, we could face labor strikes or work stoppages or other activity that could adversely affect our business and operations. Additionally, we have recently been sued in four separate actions claiming violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act based upon our alleged failure to pay employees for all hours worked by not including time spent donning and doffing specialized protective gear. The plaintiffs have filed the lawsuits as opt-in collective actions under the Fair Labor Standards Act, claiming that an unspecified number of allegedly “similarly situated” employees and former employees should be permitted to join together with the employee to pursue these lawsuits as collective actions against us. Although we intend to defend this lawsuit vigorously, an adverse outcome could increase our cost of doing business. The Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002 could increase our costs of doing business. The Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, which we refer to as the Bioterrorism Act, includes a number of provisions designed to help guard against the threat of bioterrorism, including new authority for the Secretary of Health and Human Services to take action to protect the nation’s food supply against intentional contamination. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, is responsible for developing and implementing these food safety measures. The FDA has been in the process of issuing new rules, and it is difficult for us to predict what impact they might have on our business. Compliance with these rules may increase our costs of doing business by increasing the amounts that we spend on plant security and product safety. If we are unable to pass these higher costs on to our customers, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 