ITEM 1A. Risk FactorsThe following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating us and this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain statements in ‘‘Risk Factors’’ are forward-looking statements. See ‘‘Forward-Looking Statements’’ above.Risks Relating to Our BusinessWe operate in a highly competitive industry, and if we are unable to compete successfully we could lose customers and our sales may decline.The MRO product distribution industry is highly competitive. We face significant competition from national and regional distributors that market their products through the use of direct sales forces as well as direct marketing, websites and catalogs. In addition, we face competition from traditional channels of distribution such as retail outlets, small wholesalers and large warehouse stores and from buying groups formed by smaller distributors, internet-based procurement service companies, auction businesses and trade exchanges. We expect that new competitors may develop over time as internet-based enterprises become more established and reliable and refine their service capabilities.In addition, the MRO product distribution industry is undergoing changes driven by industry consolidation and increased customer demands. Traditional MRO product distributors are consolidating operations and acquiring or merging with other MRO product distributors to achieve economies of scale and increase efficiency. This consolidation trend could cause the industry to become more competitive and make it more difficult for us to maintain our operating margins. Competition in our industry is primarily based upon product line breadth, product availability, technology, service capabilities and price. To the extent that existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing price or by increasing support service offerings, we may be required to lower our prices or to make additional expenditures for support services, thereby reducing our profitability.Adverse changes in global economic conditions may negatively affect our industry, business and results of operations.Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia experienced substantial disruption from the second half of 2008 through early 2010, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. During this time period, governments took unprecedented actions intended to address these market conditions and the effectiveness of these actions is not yet fully known. Although macroeconomic conditions in the United States generally improved in 2013, the overall health of the economy remains fragile. High unemployment rates and continuing challenges in the housing sector, among other factors, continue to weigh on the economy.The MRO product distribution industry is affected by changes in economic conditions outside our control, which can result in increased vacancies and lower effective rents in the residential rental housing market and a general decrease in product demand from our customers. In addition, a significant number of our facilities maintenance customers are educational institutions and health care facilities, which depend on public funding. If tax revenue for federal, state and local governments decreases substantially during an economic recession, governments could cut public funding in response to the reduced revenue, which would result in reduced funding to our existing and potential customers. 14Table of ContentsSuch economic developments may affect our business in a number of ways. Reduced demand may drive us and our competitors to offer products at promotional prices, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. In addition, credit availability may adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders for our products. If demand for our products slows down or decreases, we will not be able to improve our revenues and we may run the risk of failing to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. Reduced revenues as a result of decreased demand may also reduce our working capital and otherwise hinder our ability to improve our performance in connection with our long-term strategy.One of the key markets in which we operate is impacted by trends in home improvement, home remodeling and home building. Adverse changes in economic factors specific to these industries may negatively impact the rate of growth of our net sales.The residential facilities market is impacted by trends in home improvement, home remodeling and new home construction. Trends in these areas are in turn dependent upon a number of factors, including demographic trends, interest rates, credit markets, tax policy, employment levels, consumer confidence and the general economy. Unfavorable changes in demographics or a weakening of the national economy or of any regional or local economy in which we operate could adversely affect consumer spending, result in decreased demand for repair, improvement, remodeling or construction products and adversely affect our business.An impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets, or a change in useful lives of intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.Goodwill represents the difference between the purchase price of acquired companies and the related fair values of net assets acquired. We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. We compare the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, to the fair value of the unit. Carrying value is based on the assets and liabilities associated with the operations of that reporting unit. If the carrying value is less than the fair value, no impairment exists. If the carrying value is higher than the fair value, then there is an indication of impairment. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indication of impairment exists. Factors may include, among others: a significant decline in our expected future cash flows; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and slower growth rates. Any adverse change in these factors would have a significant impact on the recoverability of these assets and negatively affect our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. We compute the amount of impairment by comparing the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. We are required to record a non-cash impairment charge if the testing performed indicates that goodwill has been impaired.As with goodwill, we test our indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. We estimate the fair value of the trademarks based on an income valuation model using the relief from royalty method, which requires assumptions related to projected revenues from our annual long-range plan, assumed royalty rates that could be payable if we did not own the trademarks, and a discount rate.In the future, we may determine that some of our indefinite-lived assets have definite lives, in which case we would begin amortizing the cost over the remaining useful life.We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets or whether indefinite-lived intangibles will convert to definite-lived and corresponding amortization will be recorded. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, or should we determine that certain intangible assets have definite lives, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations.Fluctuations in the cost of raw materials, fuel prices or currency exchange rates could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability.As a distributor of manufactured products, our profitability is related to the prices we pay to the manufacturers from which we purchase our products and to the cost of transporting the products to us and our customers. The price that our suppliers charge us for our products is dependent in part upon the availability and cost of the raw materials used to produce those products. Such raw materials are often subject to price fluctuations, frequently due to factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general U.S. and international economic conditions, labor costs, competition and government regulations. Increases in the cost of raw materials, such as copper, oil, stainless steel, aluminum, zinc, plastic and polyvinyl chloride ("PVC") and other commodities and raw materials have occurred in the past and adversely impacted our operating results. Transportation prices are significantly dependent on fuel prices, which generally change due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in worldwide demand, disruptions in supply, changes in the political climate in the Middle East and other regions and changes in government regulations, including existing and 15Table of Contentspending legislation and regulations relating to climate change. For example, efforts to combat climate change through reduction of greenhouse gases may result in higher fuel costs through taxation or other means. Fluctuations in raw materials and fuel prices may increase our costs and significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. The nature and extent of such an impact is difficult to predict, quantify and measure. To the extent the costs of products increase or decrease, the prices we charge for our products may correspondingly increase or decrease, adversely affecting our revenues and profitability.In addition, many of our suppliers incur costs of production in non-U.S. currencies. Accordingly, depreciation of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies could increase the price we pay for these products. For example, a substantial portion of our products are sourced from suppliers in China and the value of the Chinese Yuan has increased relative to the U.S. dollar since July 2005, when it was allowed to fluctuate against a basket of foreign currencies. Most experts believe that the value of the Yuan will continue to increase relative to the U.S. dollar over the next few years. Such a move would most likely result in an increase in the cost of products that are sourced from suppliers in China.Loss of supplier agreements, lack of product availability or loss of delivery sources could decrease our revenues and profitability.Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers or other suppliers. While in many instances we have agreements, including supply chain agreements, with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. One supplier represented 5.1% of our total purchases during the fiscal year ended December 27, 2013. Even though we can replace each of our supplier, and other than the foregoing supplier, no other individual supplier represented more than 5% of our total purchases during the fiscal year ended December 27, 2013, the loss of several supplier agreements, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products from our suppliers, could have a short-term material impact on our business.In addition, supply interruptions could arise from shortages of raw materials, labor disputes, natural or man-made disasters, or weather conditions affecting products or shipments, transportation disruptions or other factors beyond our control. Loss of a key foreign supplier could disrupt our supply chain for approximately 60 to 90 days, or longer, and loss of key suppliers from an individual country could result in disruptions of approximately 120 to 150 days, or longer. Short and long-term disruptions in our supply chain would result in higher inventory levels as we replace similar products domestically, a higher cost of product and ultimately a decrease in our revenues and profitability. Although we are not substantially dependent on any individual supplier, a disruption in the timely availability of our product by our key suppliers could result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability.A change in supplier rebates could adversely affect our income and gross margins.The terms on which we purchase products from many of our suppliers entitle us to receive a rebate based on the volume of our purchases. These rebates effectively reduce our costs for products. If market conditions change, suppliers may adversely change the terms of some or all of these programs. Although these changes would not affect the recorded costs of products already purchased, they may lower our gross margins on products we sell or income we realize in future periods. Further, if we fail to meet specified volume thresholds for certain suppliers, we may not receive the most favorable rebates available, which could increase our expected costs and decrease our gross margins.In some cases, we are dependent on long supply chains, which may subject us to interruptions in the supply of many of the products that we distribute.A significant portion of the products that we distribute is imported from foreign countries, including China. We are thus dependent on long supply chains for the successful delivery of many of our products. The length and complexity of these supply chains make them vulnerable to numerous risks, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause significant interruptions or delays in delivery of our products. Factors such as labor disputes, currency fluctuations, changes in tariff or import policies, severe weather or terrorist attacks or armed hostilities may disrupt these supply chains. In addition to these factors, loading container cargo in Chinese ports can be disrupted or delayed by congestion in port terminal facilities, inadequate equipment to load, dock and offload container vessels or energy-related tie-ups. In any such case, our product shipments will be delayed. We expect more of our name brand and exclusive brand products will be imported in the future, which will further increase these risks. A significant interruption in our supply chains caused by any of the above factors could result in increased costs or delivery delays and result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. 16Table of ContentsIf the government of China were to reduce or withdraw the tax benefits they provide our Chinese suppliers, the cost of some of our products could increase and therefore our profitability may be significantly reduced.China’s turnover tax system consists of value-added tax ("VAT"), consumption tax and business tax. Export sales are exempted under VAT rules and an exporter who incurs input VAT on the manufacture of goods can claim a tax rebate from Chinese tax authorities. Currently, our Chinese suppliers benefit from the tax rebates that China provides them to export their products. If these tax rebates are reduced or eliminated, some of our Chinese-sourced products could become more expensive for us, thereby reducing our profitability.We could face potential product quality and product liability claims relating to the products we distribute, as well as other legal claims, which could result in a decline in revenues and profitability and negatively impact customer confidence.We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with the products we sell and distribute. As we do not have direct control over the quality of the products manufactured or supplied by such third party suppliers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of the products we distribute. It is possible that inventory from a manufacturer or supplier could be sold to our customers and later be alleged to have quality problems or to have caused personal injury or property damage, subjecting us to potential claims from customers or third parties. The risk of claims may be greater with respect to our exclusive brand products, as these products are customarily manufactured by third party suppliers outside the United States, particularly in China. We have been subject to claims in the past, which have been resolved without material financial impact. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant time periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome, and could result in settlement payments and adjustments not covered by or in excess of insurance. In addition, we may not be able to obtain insurance on terms acceptable to us or at all. An unsuccessful product liability defense could be very costly and could result in a decline in revenues and profitability. In addition, uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system may adversely affect us in resolving claims arising from our exclusive brand products manufactured in China. Because many laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform. Finally, even if we are successful in defending any claim relating to the products we distribute, claims of this nature could negatively impact customer confidence in our products and our company.We also operate a large fleet of trucks and other vehicles and therefore face the risk of accidents. While we currently maintain insurance coverage to address a portion of these types of liabilities, we cannot make assurances that we will be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or that any such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. We are involved from time to time in a number of legal proceedings, including government inquiries and investigations, as well as product liability, employment, tort and other litigation. We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies. Defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. Disruption in our information technology could significantly lower our revenues and profitability. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology that encompasses all of our major business functions. We rely upon our information technology to manage and replenish inventory, to fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis and to coordinate our sales and marketing activities across all of our brands. We believe that our information technology plays a key role in our ability to achieve operating and financial efficiencies. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our information technology could be penetrated by outside parties (such as computer hackers or cyber terrorists) intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in a loss of assets or reputational damage. Any substantial disruption of our information technology for any prolonged time period could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and, accordingly, could significantly lower our revenues and profitability.Information technology enhancements require substantial ongoing capital expenditures and could involve execution and operational risk to our business. Information technology plays an increasingly important role in the distribution industry and is central in maintaining a competitive advantage. We have long recognized the importance of technology and have consistently invested in information technology to differentiate ourselves from our competitors and make us even more relevant to customers. The pace of this investment is expected to continue, and most likely increase, as we continue to improve our business through the deployment of new technology. Future technology enhancements - which may be required to achieve our long-term growth plans - are continually planned in many 17Table of Contentsareas of our business. These enhancements may require substantial capital expenditures, and the implementation of any new technology carries execution and operational risk.Our allowance for doubtful accounts may prove inadequate or we may be negatively affected by credit risk exposures.Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. We periodically review our allowance for doubtful accounts for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due accounts. We cannot be certain that our allowance for doubtful accounts will be adequate over time to cover losses in our accounts receivable because of adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. The current economic environment is dynamic and the creditworthiness of our customers and the value of collateral underlying our accounts receivable can change significantly over very short periods of time. Our allowance may not keep pace with changes in the creditworthiness of our customers or collateral values. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, if the risk of a market, industry, or group of customers changes significantly, or if our allowance for doubtful accounts is not adequate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer.The loss of any of our significant customers could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. Our 10 largest customers generated approximately $113.0 million, or approximately 7%, of our sales in the fiscal year ended December 27, 2013, and our largest customer accounted for approximately 1% of our sales in the fiscal year ended December 27, 2013. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the integration of our acquisitions of JanPak and CleanSource, or any future acquisitions or manage other consequences of our acquisitions, which could impede our ability to remain competitive and, ultimately, our revenues and profitability. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired personnel and other corporate cultures into our business, difficulties associated with information technology conversions, the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers, the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, the difficulties in achieving target synergies and the diversion of management attention and resources from existing operations. We may not be able to fully integrate the operations of JanPak and CleanSource, or any future acquired businesses with our own in an efficient and cost-effective manner or without significant disruption to our existing or acquired operations. Our failure to integrate future acquired businesses effectively or to manage other consequences of our acquisitions, including increased indebtedness, could impede our ability to remain competitive and, ultimately, impact our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to facilitate our growth strategy by identifying or completing transactions with attractive acquisition candidates, which could impede our revenues and profitability. Our acquisitions have contributed significantly to our growth. An important element of our growth strategy is to continue to seek additional businesses to acquire in order to add new customers within our existing markets and to acquire brands in new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates or complete the acquisition of any identified candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Furthermore, we believe that our industry is currently in a process of consolidation, and competition for attractive acquisition candidates is therefore likely to escalate, thereby limiting the number of acquisition candidates and/or increasing the overall costs of making acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain financing necessary to complete acquisitions on attractive terms or at all. Difficulties we may face in identifying or completing acquisitions could impede our revenue growth and profitability.18Table of ContentsOur ability to both maintain our existing customer base and to attract new customers is dependent in many cases upon our ability to deliver products and fulfill orders in a timely and cost-effective manner. To ensure timely delivery of our products to our customers, we frequently rely on third parties, including carriers such as UPS and other national shippers as well as various local and regional trucking contractors and logistics consulting and management companies. Outsourcing this activity generates a number of risks, including decreased control over the delivery process and service timeliness and quality. Any sustained inability of these third parties to deliver our products to our customers could result in the loss of customers or require us to seek alternative delivery sources, if they are available, which may result in significantly increased costs and delivery delays. Furthermore, the need to identify and qualify substitute service providers or increase our internal capacity could result in unforeseen operational problems and additional costs. Moreover, if demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current service providers, or others, on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Disruption in our distribution centers could significantly lower our revenues and profitability. Our distribution centers are essential to the efficient operation of our national distribution network. Any serious disruption to these distribution centers due to fire, earthquake, severe weather, act of terrorism or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory. In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace these centers. As a result, any such disruption could significantly lower our revenues and profitability.We may be unable to retain senior executives and attract and retain other qualified employees, which might hinder our growth and could impede our ability to run our business and potentially reduce our revenues and profitability. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, sales, operational and marketing personnel. We face significant competition for these types of personnel in our industry. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct and expand our operations successfully and, in such an event, our revenues and profitability could decline. In addition, key personnel may leave us and compete against us. Our success also depends, to a significant extent, on the continued service of our senior management team. The loss of any member of our senior management team or other qualified employees could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, or lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of key employees. We may not be able to protect our trademarks and service marks, which could diminish the strength of our trademarks or limit our ability to use our trademarks and, accordingly, undermine our competitive position. We believe that our trademarks (including both trademarks and service marks) are important to our success and our competitive position. For instance, we market and sell products primarily through thirteen distinct and targeted brands: Wilmar®, Barnett®, AmSan®, JanPak® , CleanSource®, Sexauer®, Hardware Express®, Copperfield®, Maintenance USA®, U.S. Lock®, LeranSM, Trayco®, and AF Lighting®. We believe many of our customers have developed strong consumer loyalty to these targeted brands. Accordingly, we devote resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and our exclusive brand products. However, the actions we have taken may be inadequate to prevent imitation and/or infringement of our trademarks by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. Our rights in our trademarks are subject to rights of others whose actual or constructive use of such trademark (or a confusingly similar mark) commenced before the date our rights vested. Future actions by third parties may diminish the strength of our trademarks or limit our ability to use our trademarks and, accordingly, undermine our competitive position.Certain private equity investment funds affiliated with GS Capital Partners VI Fund, L.P. and its related entities (“GS Capital Partners”) and P2 Capital Partners, LLC and its related entities (“P2 Capital Partners”) own a significant majority of our equity, and their interests may not be aligned with our note holders or creditors.GS Capital Partners and P2 Capital Partners own substantially all of our equity. These private equity investment funds have the power, subject to certain exceptions, to direct our affairs and policies and to elect the majority of the members of our Board of Directors. Through such representation on our Board of Directors, they are able to substantially influence the appointment of management and entry into extraordinary transactions, including mergers and sales of assets.The interests of GS Capital Partners and P2 Capital Partners could conflict with the interests of the note holders or creditors. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of GS Capital Partners and P2 Capital Partners as equity holders might conflict with the interests of the note holders or creditors. GS Capital Partners and P2 19Table of ContentsCapital Partners may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, although such transactions might involve risks to the note holders or creditors. In addition, GS Capital Partners and P2 Capital Partners or their respective affiliates may in the future own businesses that directly or indirectly compete with ours or our suppliers or customers of ours. Risks Relating to Our IndebtednessOur substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. As of December 27, 2013, our total indebtedness was $809.1 million, of which $18.3 million represents the unamortized fair value premium recorded in connection with the Merger, $10.5 million was outstanding in the form of letters of credit and $0.2 million relates to capital lease obligations. As of December 27, 2013, we had $365.0 million HoldCo Notes outstanding, $300.0 million OpCo Notes outstanding, and $115.0 million outstanding on the ABL Facility. Also, as of December 27, 2013, we had $7.7 million of total cash and cash equivalents and $145.8 million in availability under the ABL Facility. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our financial health. For example it could: •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the HoldCo Notes, OpCo Notes, the ABL Facility, and our other indebtedness,•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions or a downturn in our business,•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt service, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes,•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate,•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged, •limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, and•result in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under the HoldCo Notes, OpCo Notes, the ABL Facility, or our other indebtedness or fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in the indentures, the ABL Facility, or our other debt; such event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit certain of our lenders to foreclose on our assets securing such indebtedness.We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to timely pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. Our ability to incur additional debt will be limited by the terms and conditions of our credit facility. Any of the above listed factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The indentures governing the HoldCo Notes and OpCo Notes and the agreement governing the ABL Facility include restrictive and financial covenants that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. The indentures governing the HoldCo Notes and OpCo Notes, and the agreement governing the ABL Facility, each contain covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interest. These include restrictions on our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness, •pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock,•prepay, redeem or repurchase specified indebtedness,•merge, consolidate or sell assets or enter into other business combination transactions,•make acquisitions, capital expenditure investments or other investments,•enter into transactions with affiliates,•incur certain liens,•enter into sale-leaseback transactions,•use proceeds from sale of assets, •limit the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries, and•change our business. In addition, the ABL Facility requires the Company and its restricted subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio (defined as the ratio of EBITDA, as defined in the credit agreement, to the sum of cash interest, principal payments on indebtedness and accrued income taxes, dividends or distributions and repurchases, redemptions or retirement of the 20Table of Contentsequity interest of the Company) of at least 1.00:1.00 when the excess availability is less than or equal to the greater of: (i) 10% of the total commitments under the ABL Facility; and (ii) $25.0 million.Despite current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to finance acquisitions, investments, or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions contained in the documents governing our indebtedness. As of December 27, 2013, we were able to incur up to a maximum of $145.8 million in total additional indebtedness under the ABL Facility, based on year-end inventory and trade accounts receivable balances. Although the ABL Facility and the indentures governing the HoldCo Notes and OpCo Notes contain some limitations on our ability to incur indebtedness, we may still incur substantial indebtedness to refinance existing indebtedness or for other purposes. If new indebtedness is added to our current indebtedness levels, the substantial leverage risks described above that we now face would intensify. The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may impair our access to sufficient capital. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, as credit markets may be uncertain and potentially volatile. In addition, we may not be able to refinance our outstanding debt when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Decreased access to the credit markets and other financing sources could also restrict our ability to make acquisitions and grow our business. Furthermore, if our operating results, cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our debt, we could be forced to reduce or delay planned capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure or refinance our debt or seek additional equity capital, and we may be unable to take any of the actions on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Further, any of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations or may have an adverse impact on our business. The terms of the ABL Facility and the indentures governing the HoldCo Notes and OpCo Notes and any future indebtedness will limit our ability to take certain of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay our debts, to refinance our indebtedness or to successfully undertake any of these other actions could have a material adverse effect on us. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.21Table of Contents