ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are subject to risks and uncertainties. You should not place undue reliance on those statements because they are subject to numerous uncertainties and factors relating to our operations and business environment, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future results of operations, including descriptions of our business strategy. These statements often include words such as “may,” “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “plan,” “estimate” or similar expressions. These statements are based on assumptions that we have made in light of our experience in the industry as well as our perceptions of historical trends, current conditions, expected future developments and other factors we believe are appropriate under the circumstances. As you read and consider this report, you should understand that these statements are not guarantees of performance or results. They involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Although we believe that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, you should be aware that many factors could affect our actual financial results or results of operations and could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. These factors include: · material facilities and systems disruptions and shutdowns, · the highly competitive nature of the maintenance, repair and operations distribution industry, · economic slowdowns, · general market conditions, · our ability to purchase products from suppliers on favorable terms, · the length of our supply chains, · fluctuations in the cost of raw materials and fuel prices, · currency exchange rates, · the loss of significant customers, · our ability to accurately predict market trends, · product cost and price fluctuations due to market conditions, · failure to locate, acquire and successfully integrate acquisition candidates, · dependence on key employees, · our inability to protect trademarks, · adverse publicity and litigation, · our level of debt, · interest rate fluctuations, · future cash flows, · changes in consumer preferences, · labor and benefit costs, and · the other factors described under “Risk Factors.” You should keep in mind that any forward-looking statement made by us in this report, or elsewhere, speaks only as of the date on which we make it. New risks and uncertainties arise from time to time, and it is impossible for us to predict these events or how they may affect us. In light of these risks and uncertainties, you should keep in mind that any forward-looking statement made in this report or 14 elsewhere might not occur. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all information contained in this report is materially accurate as of the date of this report. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating us and this annual report on Form 10-K. Certain statements in “Risk Factors” are forward-looking statements. See “Forward-Looking Statements” above. Risks Relating to Our Business Disruption in our information technology system could significantly lower our revenues and profitability. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology system that encompasses all of our major business functions. We rely upon our information technology system to manage and replenish inventory, to fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis and to coordinate our sales and marketing activities across all of our brands. We believe that our information technology system plays a key role in our ability to achieve operating and financial efficiencies. Any substantial disruption of our information technology system for any prolonged time period could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and, accordingly, could significantly lower our revenues and profitability. Disruption in our national distribution center could significantly lower our revenues and profitability. We currently maintain a national distribution center located in Nashville, Tennessee, which is essential to the efficient operation of our national distribution network. Any serious disruption to this distribution center due to fire, earthquake, act of terrorism or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory and could materially impair our ability to distribute our products to our customers. In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace the center. As a result, any such disruption could significantly lower our revenues and profitability. We operate in a highly competitive industry and if we are unable to compete successfully we could lose customers and our sales may decline. The MRO product distribution industry is highly competitive. We face significant competition from national and regional distributors which market their products through the use of direct sales forces as well as direct marketing and catalogs. In addition, we face competition from traditional channels of distribution such as retail outlets, small dealerships and large warehouse stores and from buying groups formed by smaller distributors, Internet-based procurement service companies, auction businesses and trade exchanges. We expect that new competitors may develop over time as Internet-based enterprises become more established and reliable and refine their service capabilities. In addition, the MRO product distribution industry is undergoing changes driven by industry consolidation and increased customer demands. Traditional MRO product distributors are consolidating operations and acquiring or merging with other MRO product distributors to achieve economies of scale and increase efficiency. For example, two of our competitors, Hughes Supply and Hughes MRO, have agreed to be acquired by Home Depot, which is our competitor as well. This consolidation trend could cause the industry to become more competitive and make it more difficult for us to maintain our operating margins. Competition in our industry is primarily based upon product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities and price. To the extent that existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing price or by increasing support service offerings, we may be required to lower our prices or to make additional expenditures for support services, thereby reducing our profitability. 15 Slowdowns in general economic activity and other unforeseen events may detrimentally impact our customers and thereby significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. The MRO product distribution industry is affected by changes in economic conditions outside our control, including national, regional and local slowdowns in general economic activity and job markets, which can result in increased vacancies in the residential rental housing market and a general decrease in product demand from professional contractors and specialty distributors. For example, the slowdown in economic activity during 2002 and 2003 resulted in less apartment unit refurbishment and renovation which reduced demand for our products and depressed revenue growth. Economic slowdowns, adverse economic conditions or cyclical trends in our customer markets and other unforeseen events, such as terrorist attacks or armed hostilities, could negatively affect our industry or the industries in which our customers operate and significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. Loss of key suppliers, lack of product availability or loss of delivery sources could decrease our revenues and profitability. We believe our ability to offer a combination of well recognized product lines and high-quality low-priced private label product lines has been a significant factor in attracting and retaining many of our customers and is one of our core competitive strengths. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers or other suppliers. While in many instances we have agreements, including supply chain agreements, with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. The loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from our suppliers, or the loss of our key supplier agreements, could cause our revenues and profitability to decrease. In addition, supply interruptions could arise from shortages of raw materials, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting products or shipments, transportation disruptions or other factors beyond our control. Loss of a key foreign supplier could disrupt our supply chain for approximately 60 to 90 days, or longer, and loss of key suppliers from an individual country could result in disruptions of approximately 120 to 150 days, or longer. Short and long term disruptions in our supply chain would result in higher inventory levels as we replace similar product domestically, a higher cost of product and ultimately a decrease in our revenues and profitability. Although no individual supplier represents more than 5% of our total purchases, a disruption in the timely availability of our product by our key suppliers could result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. Our ability to both maintain our existing customer base and to attract new customers is dependent in many cases upon our ability to deliver products and fulfill orders in a timely and cost-effective manner. To ensure timely delivery of our products to our customers, we frequently rely on third parties, including couriers such as UPS and other national shippers as well as various local and regional trucking contractors. Outsourcing this activity generates a number of risks, including decreased control over the delivery process and service timeliness and quality. Any sustained inability of these third parties to deliver our products to our customers could result in the loss of customers or require us to seek alternative delivery sources, if they are available, which may result in significantly increased costs and delivery delays. Furthermore, the need to identify and qualify substitute service providers or increase our internal capacity could result in unforeseen operations problems and additional costs. Moreover, if customer demand for our products increase, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current service providers, or others, on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In some cases we are dependent on long supply chains, which may subject us to interruptions in the supply of many of the products that we distribute. A significant portion of the products that we distribute is imported from foreign countries, including China. We are thus dependent on long supply chains for the successful delivery of many of our products. The length and complexity of these supply chains make them vulnerable to numerous risks, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause significant interruptions or delays in delivery of our products. Factors such as labor disputes, currency fluctuations, changes in tariff or import policies, severe weather or terrorist attacks or armed hostilities may disrupt 16 these supply chains. We expect more of our name brand and private label products will be imported in the future, which will further increase these risks. A significant interruption in our supply chains caused by any of the above factors could result in increased costs or delivery delays and result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. Fluctuations in the cost of raw materials, fuel prices or in currency exchange rates could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. As a distributor of manufactured products, our profitability is tied to the prices we pay to the manufacturers from which we purchase our products and to the cost of transporting the products to us and our customers. The price that our suppliers charge us for our products is dependent in part upon the availability and cost of the raw materials used to produce those products. Such raw materials are often subject to price fluctuations, frequently due to factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general U.S. and international economic conditions, labor costs, competition and government regulations. Transportation prices are significantly dependent on fuel prices, which generally change due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in worldwide demand, disruptions in supply, changes in the political climate in the Middle East and other regions and changes in government regulations. Fluctuations in fuel prices may increase our costs and significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. In addition, many of our suppliers price their products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar or incur costs of production in non-U.S. currencies. Accordingly, depreciation of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies could increase the price we pay for these products. For example, a substantial portion of our products are sourced from suppliers in China. On July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China announced that the Yuan will no longer be pegged to the U.S. dollar, but will be allowed to float in a band (and, to a limited extent, increase in value) against a basket of foreign currencies, a move that increases the risk that Chinese-sourced products could become more expensive for us. Adverse currency fluctuations and increases in the costs of raw materials, such as copper prices, have occurred in the past and have impacted our operating results. If currency or fuel price fluctuations or cost increases recurred in the future and were prolonged, our revenues and profitability could be significantly diminished. The loss of any of our significant customers could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. Our 10 largest customers generated approximately $68.0 million, or 8.0% of our sales in the year ended December 30, 2005, and our largest customer accounted for approximately 4.0% of our sales in the year ended December 30, 2005. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to facilitate our growth strategy by identifying or completing transactions with attractive acquisition candidates, which could impede our revenues and profitability. Our acquisitions of Barnett in 2000, Florida Lighting in 2003, and Copperfield in 2005 have contributed significantly to our growth. An important element of our growth strategy is to continue to seek additional businesses to acquire in order to add new customers within our existing markets and to acquire brands in new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates or complete the acquisition of any identified candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Furthermore, we believe that our industry is currently in a process of consolidation, and competition for attractive acquisition candidates is therefore likely to escalate, thereby limiting the number of acquisition candidates or increasing the overall costs of making acquisitions. Difficulties we may face in identifying or completing acquisitions could impede our revenue growth and profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the integration of future acquisitions or manage other consequences of our acquisitions, which could impede our ability to remain competitive and, ultimately, our revenues and profitability. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired personnel and other corporate cultures into our business, the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers, the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen 17 liabilities of acquired companies, the difficulties in achieving target synergies and the diversion of management attention and resources from existing operations. Although we have been successful in the past in integrating acquisitions, we may not be able to fully integrate the operations of future acquired businesses with our own in an efficient and cost-effective manner or without significant disruption to our existing operations. We may also be required to incur additional debt in order to consummate acquisitions in the future, such debt may be substantial and may limit our flexibility in using our cash flow from operations. Our failure to integrate future acquired businesses effectively or to manage other consequences of our acquisitions, including increased indebtedness, could impede our ability to remain competitive and, ultimately, our revenues and profitability. We may be unable to retain senior executives and attract and retain other qualified employees which might hinder our growth and could impede our ability to run our business and potentially reduce our revenues and profitability. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, sales and marketing personnel. We face significant competition for these types of personnel in our industry. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct and expand our operations successfully and, in such an event, our revenues and profitability could decline. In addition, key personnel may leave us and compete against us. Our success also depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior management team. The loss of any member of our senior management team or other qualified employees could impair our ability to execute our business plan and growth strategy, cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, or lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of key employees. We may not be able to protect our trademarks, which could diminish the strength of our trademarks or limit our ability to use our trademarks and, accordingly, undermine our competitive position. We believe that our trademarks are important to our success and our competitive position. For instance, we market and sell products primarily through nine distinct and targeted brands: Wilmar®, Sexauer®, Maintenance USA®, Barnett®, Hardware Express®, U.S. Lock®, SunStar®, Copperfield™ and AF Lighting™. We believe many of our customers have developed strong consumer loyalty to these targeted brands. Accordingly, we devote resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, including with respect to our brand names and our private product labels. However, the actions we have taken may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our brands and concepts by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. In addition, others may assert rights in our trademarks. Our exclusive rights to our trademarks are subject to the common law rights of any other person who began using the trademark (or a confusingly similar mark) prior to the date of federal registration. Future actions by third parties may diminish the strength of our trademarks or limit our ability to use our trademarks and, accordingly, undermine our competitive position. We could face potential product quality and product liability claims relating to the products we distribute, which could result in a decline in revenues and profitability and negatively impact customer confidence. We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with the products we sell and distribute. As we do not have direct control over the quality of the products manufactured or supplied by such third party suppliers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of the products we distribute. It is possible that inventory from a manufacturer or supplier could be sold to our customers and later be alleged to have quality problems or to have caused personal injury, subjecting us to potential claims from customers or third parties. The risk of claims may be greater with respect to our private label products, as these products are customarily manufactured by third party suppliers outside the United States, particularly in China. We have been subject to claims in the past, which have been resolved without material financial impact. While we currently maintain insurance coverage to address these types of liabilities, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such insurance on acceptable terms in the future, if at all, or that any such insurance will provide adequate coverage against potential claims. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant time periods, regardless of 18 the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful product liability defense could be highly costly and accordingly result in a decline in revenues and profitability. In addition, uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system may adversely affect us in resolving claims arising from our private label products manufactured in China. Because many laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform. Finally, even if we are successful in defending any claim relating to the products we distribute, claims of this nature could negatively impact customer confidence in our products and our company. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness Our indebtedness may limit our cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business, which could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. As of December 30, 2005, our total indebtedness was $295.6 million, of which $10.6 million was outstanding in the form of letters of credit. We had approximately $162.4 million of senior indebtedness outstanding and approximately $86.4 million in additional revolving loan availability under our $100.0 million revolving loan facility. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: · our debt could limit our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; · a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available to us for our operations; · some of our debt is, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; · our debt could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or our industry; · our debt may potentially place us at a competitive disadvantage to the extent we are more highly leveraged than some of our competitors; · our debt could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our credit facility, exposing us to the risk of default on our secured debt, which could result in a foreclosure on our assets, and in turn negatively affect our ability to operate as a going concern; · our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could harm our business or prospects and could result in our filing for bankruptcy; and · our debt may make us more vulnerable to a further downturn in the economy, our industry or our business. Our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay when due the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. In addition, we may incur additional debt from time to time to finance strategic acquisitions, investments or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions contained in the documents governing our indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage, including our ability to service our debt, would increase. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. Our ability to incur additional debt will be limited by the terms and conditions of our credit facility. In July 2005, we utilized, within the terms of our credit agreement, an incremental $50.0 million term loan to partially fund the Copperfield acquisition. As 19 of December 30, 2005, the amended credit facility provides for an additional incremental term loan in the aggregate principal amount of up to $50.0 million. Despite our level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture governing our 11.5% senior subordinated notes due 2011, or the 11.5% notes, and the credit agreement governing our credit facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Specifically, the indenture permits us to incur all the indebtedness provided for in our new revolving loan facility. Furthermore, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness, as defined in the applicable agreement. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. The terms of our credit facility and the indenture governing the 11.5% notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our credit facility and the indenture governing the 11.5% notes contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: · incur additional debt, · pay dividends and make other restricted payments, · create liens, · make investments, · engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock, · enter into sale and leaseback transactions, · enter into transactions with affiliates, · transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions and · make capital expenditures. The credit facility also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios, which become more restrictive over time. A failure by us to comply with the covenants or financial ratios contained in the credit facility could result in an event of default under the facility which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. In the event of any default under our credit facility, the lenders under our credit facility are not required to lend any additional amounts to us and could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable, require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings or prevent us from making debt service payments on the 11.5% notes, any of which could result in an event of default under the 11.5% notes. If the indebtedness under our credit facility or the 11.5% notes were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory, and legislative and business factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our indebtedness under the credit facility bears interest at a variable rate. Historically, we have funded our debt service obligations and other capital requirements through internally generated cash flow and funds borrowed under our credit agreement. We expect our cash flow 20 from operations and the loan availability under our credit agreement to be our primary source of funds in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt obligations, including payments on the 11.5% notes, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of the 11.5% notes. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 