Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. As such, prospective investors and shareholders should carefully consider and evaluate all of the risk factors described below. These risk factors may change from time to time and may be amended, supplemented, or superseded by updates to the risk factors contained in 15 Table of Contents periodic reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-K that we file with the SEC in the future. These risks include the following: Because the specialized markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive, we may have difficulty growing our business. The markets in which we sell our products are highly competitive. Many of these markets require highly specialized products that are time and cost intensive to design and develop. In addition, innovative products, quality, service, utility, cost and technical support are the primary competitive factors in the separation and filtration membrane industry. Some of our competitors are much larger companies that have greater financial, technological, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Many of these competitors are also better established as suppliers to the markets that we serve. As a result, a reduction in overall demand or increased costs to design and produce our products within these markets could cause us to reduce our prices, which could lower our profit margins and impair our ability to grow our business. We must continue to invest significant resources in developing innovative products in order to maintain a competitive edge in the highly specialized markets in which we operate. Our continued success depends, in part, upon our ability to maintain our technological capabilities and to continue to identify, develop and commercialize innovative products for the separation and filtration membrane industry. For example, products for some consumer electronics applications have a short lifecycle and require constant development. If we fail to continue to develop products for those markets or keep pace with technological developments by our competitors generally, we may lose market share which could result in reduced sales and impair our financial condition. The loss of large volume customers could impact our sales and our profits. Our products are often sold to a relatively small number of large volume customers. The loss of large volume customers could impact our sales and our profits. In fiscal 2011, sales to our top five customers represented approximately 25% of our total net sales. Vertical integration by our customers of the production of our products into their own manufacturing processes could reduce our sales and our profits. Our future sales and profits will depend to a significant extent upon whether our customers choose in the future to manufacture the separation and filtration membranes used in their products instead of purchasing these components from us. If any of our existing customers choose to vertically integrate the production of our products in such a manner, the loss of sales to these customers could reduce our sales and our profits. Increases in prices for raw materials or the loss of key supplier contracts could reduce our profit margins. The primary raw materials we use in the manufacture of most of our products are polyethylene and polypropylene resins, silica and oil. In fiscal 2011, raw materials accounted for approximately 40% of our cost of sales. Although our major customer contracts generally allow us to pass increased costs on to our customers, we may not be able to pass on all raw material price increases to our customers in each case or without delay. The loss of any of our key suppliers could disrupt our business until we secure alternative supply arrangements. Furthermore, any new supply agreement we enter into may not have terms as favorable as those contained in our current supply arrangements. 16 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could harm our ability to react to changes in our business or to market developments and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our indebtedness. We have incurred a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011, our consolidated indebtedness is $709.5 million. Our cash interest requirements for the next twelve months are estimated to be $36.1 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness, as well as any additional borrowings we may make under the unused portions of the senior secured credit agreement, increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. Our substantial debt could increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility to plan for, or to react to, changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate. This limitation could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt and more cash to insulate their operations from market downturns and to finance new business opportunities. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. At December 31, 2011, we had variable rate debt of $344.5 million. An interest rate increase would result in an increase in interest expense. Our earnings may not be sufficient to allow us to meet any such increases in interest rate expense and to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do based on terms favorable to the Company or at all. To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund our operations will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. However, our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations for a variety of reasons, including those mentioned elsewhere in this "Risk Factors" section. Without sufficient cash flow, future borrowings may not be available to us under the senior secured credit agreement in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity or capital needs. If we cannot generate sufficient cash to service our debt, we will have to take such actions as reducing or delaying capital investments, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our debt or seeking additional equity capital. Any of these actions may not be effected on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, the indenture for the 7.5% senior notes and the senior secured credit agreement may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. The terms of the senior secured credit agreement and the indenture related to the 7.5% senior notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to market changes or to take certain actions. The senior secured credit agreement and the indenture related to the 7.5% senior notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests. For example, the senior secured credit agreement includes covenants restricting, among other things, our ability to incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness or guarantees; engage in mergers, acquisitions and other business combinations; or amend or otherwise alter terms of our indebtedness, including the 7.5% senior notes, and other material agreements. The senior secured credit agreement also includes 17 Table of Contents financial covenants requiring that we maintain a maximum senior leverage ratio at all times when loans or letters of credit are outstanding under the revolving credit facility. The indenture related to the 7.5% senior notes also contains numerous negative covenants including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to incur or guarantee additional debt, issue preferred stock of restricted subsidiaries, pay dividends or make other equity distributions, or purchase or redeem capital stock. A breach of any of these covenants or the inability to comply with financial covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit agreement or the indenture governing the 7.5% senior notes. If any such default occurs, the lenders and the holders of the 7.5% senior notes may elect to declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other amounts payable thereunder, to be immediately due and payable. The lenders under the credit agreement also have the right in these circumstances to terminate any commitments they have to provide further borrowings and to proceed against all collateral granted to them to secure the debt. If collateral (such as available cash) is repossessed by the lenders or holders of the 7.5% senior notes, we will be unable to access the capital and other resources necessary to operate our business, and we could incur immediate and significant losses. Some of our employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements. Any employee slowdowns, strikes or failure to renew our collective bargaining agreements could disrupt our business. Approximately 32% of our employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements. A majority of those employees are located in France and Germany and are represented under industry-wide agreements that are subject to national and local government regulations. Many of these collective bargaining agreements must be renewed annually. Labor unions also represent our employees in Owensboro, Kentucky, and Corydon, Indiana. Labor organizing activities could result in additional employees becoming unionized. We may not be able to maintain constructive relationships with these labor unions or successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements in the future. The loss of a substantial number of these employees or a prolonged labor dispute could disrupt our business. Any such disruption could in turn reduce our sales, increase our costs to bring products to market and result in significant losses. We generate most of our sales from manufacturing products that are used in a wide variety of industries and the potential for product liability exposure for our products could be significant. We manufacture a wide variety of products that are used in healthcare and consumer applications. Several of these products are used in medical devices that some consumers require in order to sustain their lives. As a result, we may face exposure to product liability claims in the event that the failure of our products results, or is alleged to result, in bodily injury and/or death. In addition, if any of our products are, or are alleged to be, defective, we may be required to make warranty payments or to participate in a recall involving those products. Consequently, end users of our products may look to us for contribution when faced with product recalls, product liability or warranty claims. The future costs associated with defending product liability claims or providing product warranties could be material and we may experience material losses in the future as a result. A successful product liability claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in any product recall could substantially reduce our available cash from operations. Reduced cash could in turn reduce our profits or impair our financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Our operations outside the United States pose risks to our business that are not present with our domestic business, including compliance with applicable anti-trust laws. Our manufacturing facilities in the United States accounted for 42% of total net sales for fiscal 2011, with facilities in Europe and Asia accounting for 38% and 20%, respectively. Typically, we sell our products in the currency of the country where the manufacturing facility that produced the products is located. In addition, as part of our growth and acquisition strategy, we may expand our operations in these or other foreign countries. Our foreign operations are, and any future foreign operations will be, subject to certain risks that are unique to doing business in foreign countries. These risks include fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, inflation, economic or political instability, shipping delays, changes in applicable laws and regulatory policies and inconsistent enforcement of such laws and policies and various trade restrictions. All of these risks could have a negative impact on our ability to deliver products to customers on a competitive and timely basis. This could reduce or impair our sales, profits, cash flows and financial position. The future imposition of, or significant increases in the level of, customs duties, import quotas or other trade restrictions could also increase our costs and reduce our profits. Countries around the world are increasingly enacting anti-corruption laws, many of which are patterned after the United States' Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"). The FCPA generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from giving, or offering to give, anything of value to foreign officials with the intent of obtaining an improper business advantage. The FCPA's foreign counterparts contain similar prohibitions, although varying in both scope and jurisdiction. Our internal policies prohibit corruption in all forms and expressly mandate compliance with the FCPA in particular. Despite such policies and the FCPA training we provide to our employees, we cannot guarantee that our employees' or intermediaries' conduct will not periodically violate the anti-corruption laws of a particular nation. Our continued overseas expansion, especially in the aforementioned emerging markets, naturally increases the risk of such violations and consequently could cause a material adverse effect on our operations or financial condition. We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental laws, and violations of such laws may increase our costs or require us to change certain business practices. We use and generate a variety of chemicals and other hazardous by-products in our manufacturing operations. As a result, we are subject to a broad range of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These environmental laws govern, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges and the handling, storage and release of wastes and hazardous substances. Such laws and regulations can be complex and change often. We regularly incur costs to comply with environmental requirements, and such costs could increase significantly with changes in legal requirements or their interpretation or enforcement. Some of our manufacturing facilities have been the subject of actions to enforce environmental requirements. We could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and sanctions and third-party property damage or personal injury claims, as a result of violations of environmental laws. Failure to comply with environmental requirements could also result in enforcement actions that materially limit or otherwise affect the operations of the facilities involved. Under certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of an environmentally contaminated site may be held liable for the entire cost of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous materials at such property. This liability could result whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of any hazardous materials. Contaminants have been detected at some of our present facilities, principally in connection with historical operations. Investigations and/or clean-ups of these contaminants have been undertaken by us or by former owners of the sites. The costs of investigating and remediating environmental conditions 19 Table of Contents at some of our facilities may be substantial. Although we believe we are entitled to contractual indemnification for a portion of these costs, if we do not receive expected indemnification payments, or if our remediation costs are higher than expected, our exposure to these costs would increase. This exposure could reduce our cash available for operations, consume valuable management time and reduce our profits or impair our financial condition. We anticipate additional investigations and clean-ups of on-site contamination under regulatory supervision or voluntarily at some of our sites. In addition, the imposition of more stringent clean-up requirements, the discovery of additional contaminants or the discovery of off-site contamination at or from one or more of our facilities could result in significant additional costs to us. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, we could lose a significant competitive advantage. Our success with our products depends, in part, on our ability to protect our unique technologies and products against competitive pressure and to defend our intellectual property rights. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may manufacture and market products similar to ours. Even though we have filed patent applications, we may not be granted patents for those applications. Our failure to secure these patents may limit our ability to protect the intellectual property rights that these applications were intended to cover. Moreover, even if we are granted a patent, that does not prove conclusively that the patent is valid and enforceable. Our existing or future patents that we receive or license may not provide competitive advantages for our products. Our competitors may invalidate, narrow or avoid the scope of any existing or future patents, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights that we receive or license. In addition, patent rights may not prevent our competitors from developing, using or selling products that are similar or functionally equivalent to our products. Patent rights are territorial; thus, the patent protection we do have will only extend to those countries in which we have issued patents. Even so, the laws of certain countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and various European countries. The loss of protection for our intellectual property could reduce the market value of our products, reduce product sales and lower our profits or impair our financial condition. We intend to enforce our intellectual property rights vigorously, and from time to time we may initiate claims against third parties that we believe are infringing our intellectual property rights if we are unable to resolve matters satisfactorily through negotiation or we may be required to participate in other administrative proceedings. Lawsuits brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be expensive, time-consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Our failure to secure, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could seriously harm our business. Security interests or liens have been granted to financial institutions on some of our patents. If we fail to satisfy our obligations, the financial institutions have rights to those patents. Due to the unique products that we produce and the particular industry in which we operate, the loss of our senior management could disrupt our business. Our senior management is important to the success of our business. There is significant competition for executive personnel with unique experience in the separation and filtration membrane industry. As a result of this unique need and the competition for a limited pool of industry-based executive experience, we may not be able to retain our existing senior management. In addition, we may not be able to fill new positions or vacancies created by expansion or turnover or attract additional senior management personnel. All of our executive officers are free to pursue other business opportunities (other than our chief executive officer, who is bound by a non-compete provision of his employment agreement), including those that may compete with us. The loss of any member of our senior management without retaining a suitable replacement (either from inside or outside our existing management team) could disrupt our business. 20 Table of Contents We may pursue future acquisitions. If we incur contingent liabilities and expenses or additional debt in connection with future acquisitions or if we cannot effectively integrate newly acquired operations, our business could be disrupted. Acquisitions involve risks that the businesses acquired will not perform in accordance with expectations or that business judgments concerning the value, strengths and weaknesses of businesses acquired will prove incorrect. Future acquisitions would likely result in the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities. Such acquisitions could also increase our interest and amortization expenses as well as periodic impairment charges related to goodwill and other intangible assets. Acquisitions could also result in significant charges relating to integration costs. We may not be able to integrate successfully any business we acquire into our existing business. Any acquired businesses may not be profitable or as profitable as we had expected. The successful integration of new businesses depends on our ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. The successful integration of future acquisitions may also require substantial attention from our senior management and the management of the acquired business. This could decrease the time that they have to service and attract customers and develop new products and services. In addition, because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays. Such expenses and delays could include difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. Our inability to complete the integration of new businesses in a timely and orderly manner could increase costs, reduce our profits and ultimately disrupt our business. We have recorded a significant amount of intangible assets, which may never generate the returns we expect. Our net identifiable intangible assets at December 31, 2011 were approximately 9% of our total assets. Such assets include trademarks and trade names, license agreements and technology acquired in acquisitions. Goodwill, which relates to the excess of cost over the fair value of the net assets of the businesses acquired, was approximately 32% of our total assets at December 31, 2011. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition and are reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of the acquired business, adverse market conditions and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations. We may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. Any future determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of intangible assets would reduce our profits for the fiscal period in which the write-off occurs. In fiscal 2009, we recorded a non-cash impairment charge to goodwill of $131.5 million. Legal proceedings could have an adverse impact on our financial condition. From time to time, we are party to legal proceedings including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, intellectual property, acquisitions and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. On September 9, 2008, the United States Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") issued an administrative complaint against us alleging that our actions and the acquisition of Microporous Holding Corporation, the parent company of Microporous Products L.P. ("Microporous") have substantially lessened competition in North American markets for lead-acid battery separators. We filed an answer to the complaint on October 15, 2008 denying the material allegations of the complaint. The matter was presented before an Administrative Law Judge ("ALJ") of the FTC and the hearing concluded on June 12, 2009. In October 2009, the ALJ granted our request to re-open the record to take additional evidence. On February 22, 2010, the FTC's ALJ issued an initial decision in which he recommended to the FTC that it order us to divest substantially all of the acquired Microporous assets, which include the manufacturing facilities located in Piney Flats, Tennessee, and Feistritz, Austria, and restore the competitive environment to that which existed prior to the acquisition, while ruling in our favor on other portions of the complaint. On March 15, 2010, we filed a Notice of Appeal with the 21 Table of Contents FTC. On November 5, 2010, we were notified that the FTC commissioners ("Commissioners") affirmed the relief initially granted by the FTC's ALJ issued on February 22, 2010. The Commissioners ordered that we proceed with the ALJ's recommendations to divest substantially all of the Microporous assets acquired in February 2008. On January 28, 2011, we filed a petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit to review the FTC's November 5, 2010 order and opinion. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether we will be successful in the appellate process or the timing of a final decision. If the appellate court affirms the FTC's decision, and we choose not to seek Supreme Court review or the Supreme Court denies our petition seeking review of the case, then we will be required to divest substantially all of the assets acquired in the Microporous acquisition, and we will be subject to some prospective restrictions on our future conduct. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption or loss due to natural disasters, epidemics, terrorist acts and other events beyond our control, which could adversely affect our business. Our operations may be subject to significant interruption if any of our facilities are damaged or destroyed. For example, certain of our products are manufactured at a single facility location for which we do not maintain a backup manufacturing facility. A natural or other disaster, such as a fire or flood, could significantly disrupt our operations, delay or prevent product manufacture and shipment for the time required to repair, rebuild or replace our manufacturing facilities, which could be lengthy, and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facilities. In addition, concerns about terrorism or an outbreak of epidemic diseases, especially in our major markets of North America, Europe and Asia could have a negative effect on travel and our business operations, and result in adverse consequences on our sales and financial performance. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents 