Item 1A. Risk Factors Our profitability is subject to risks described under this section addressing “Risk Factors.” Although the following are not necessarily the only risks our company faces, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of any or all of them. Risks Related to Our Business • We depend heavily on sales to our five largest OEM customers, and our business could be adversely affected if any of them reduced or terminated purchases from us. A limited number of large orthopedic device manufacturers, all of whom are our customers, control the predominant share of the orthopedic device market. We depend heavily on revenue from the top five companies in the orthopedic industry. Revenue from our ten largest customers represented approximately 59.9% of our revenue in fiscal year 2012 and 68.3% of our revenue in fiscal year 2011. Our largest customer accounted for approximately 32.4% of our revenue in the fiscal year 2012 and 31.6% in fiscal 2011. We expect that we will continue to depend on a limited number of large customers for a significant portion of our revenue. Our sales may be impacted by significant changes in these customers’ market share, cyclicality, inventory reductions, capital budget investment in instruments and cases, unpredictability of their new product launch activity, changes in their supply chain management, as well as the impact the global economy has on these customers’ buying patterns. • Customer or competitor consolidation could adversely affect demand and pricing, which could adversely affect our business. Many healthcare companies are consolidating to create new companies that possess greater market power. As the healthcare industry continues to consolidate, our customers may delay purchases or new product launches as they integrate operations and products. Customer consolidation may also impact demand for our products, as the consolidated company implements its supply chain management philosophy. Competitor consolidation may also increase pressure as a result of the resulting larger company’s greater product and services offerings. Consolidation of our customers or competitors may increase pricing pressure or reduce our revenue, either of which would impact our operating results. • Loss of a large Group Purchasing Organization contract, a proprietary hospital system contract, or a country specific international distributor could adversely affect Symmetry Surgical’s revenue and could adversely affect our business. We maintain positive relations with several Group Purchasing Organizations and large proprietary hospital systems. As these organizations continue to pursue cost reduction opportunities, they may demand contractual concessions which we are not willing to accept. Additionally, outside the U.S., we sell through country specific distributors who may also demand contractual concessions which may be undesirable for us in that market. While we believe we could pursue other distributors in global markets and engage GPO or hospital system hospitals directly, the loss of their contracts would impede our ability to generate demand and revenue and could adversely affect sales and profitability. • If we are unable to continue to improve our current products and develop new products, we may experience a decrease in demand for our products or our products could become obsolete. We sell our products to customers in markets that are characterized by technological change, product innovation and evolving industry standards. We are continually engaged in product development and improvement programs, both in collaboration with our customers and independently. Our customers may engage in additional in-house development and manufacturing, and if the product advances we make are not sufficient for their needs, they may instead rely on internal capabilities. In addition, our independent competitors may produce products that are more appealing to our customers and thereby impair our ability to compete effectively with them. Our competitors’ product development capabilities could also become more effective than ours, and their new products may get to market before our products, may be more effective or less expensive than our products or render our products obsolete. Increased regulatory pressures and longer approval processes may impair our ability to develop and assist our customers in developing innovative products, as well as our ability to do so on a commercially effective timeline. If one or more of these events 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. Further, in recent years we have increased our investment in new product development and there is a risk that we may not realize the financial returns expected from that investment, which could also adverse impact our business. • We face competition from our customers’ in-house capabilities, established independent suppliers and potential new market entrants, and if we lose customers it would have an adverse effect on our revenue and operating results as many of our global facilities would be underutilized. Our largest customers have varying degrees of development and manufacturing capabilities, and one or more of them may seek to expand their in-house capabilities in the future, including adding capacity in existing sites or expanding into low labor cost areas such as Asia. Many of our customers are larger than we are and have greater financial and other resources than we do and can commit significant resources to product development and manufacturing. Many of our independent competitors are smaller companies, many of which have close customer relationships and either a low cost structure or highly specialized design or production capabilities. Our independent competitors may continue to consolidate and some of our current and future competitors, either alone or in conjunction with their respective parent corporate groups, may have financial resources and research and development, sales and marketing and manufacturing capabilities or brand recognition that are greater than ours. In addition, the innovative nature of our markets may attract new entrants to the field. Our products may not be able to compete successfully with the products developed, manufactured or sold by other companies, which could result in the loss of customers and, as a result, decreased revenue and operating results. Because we have multiple global facilities with associated fixed overhead, our profits vary widely depending on volume. If we were to lose customers and/or key volumes, it could significantly impact our profits. • If product liability lawsuits are brought against us or our customers our business may be harmed. The manufacture and sale of our healthcare and other products, including our aerospace products, expose us to potential product liability claims and product recalls, including those which may arise from misuse or malfunction of, or design or manufacturing flaws in, our products, or use of our products with components or systems not manufactured by us. Product liability claims or product recalls, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or otherwise require us to pay significant damages, which could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. The product liability insurance that we carry is limited in scope and amount and may not be adequate to protect us against product liability claims. Further, significant litigation or adverse awards could render us unable to maintain this insurance at reasonable costs and on reasonable terms, if at all. • We rely on our independent sales distributors and sales representatives to market and sell our products. Success in our Symmetry Surgical segment depends largely upon marketing arrangements with independent sales distributors and sales representatives, in particular their sales and service expertise and relationships with the customers in the marketplace. Independent distributors and sales representatives may terminate their relationships with us or devote insufficient sales efforts to our products. We do not control our independent distributors, and they may not be successful in implementing our marketing plans. Our failure to maintain our existing relationships with our independent distributors and sales representatives could have an adverse effect on our operations. We have experienced turnover with some of our independent sales distributors in the past, which adversely affected short-term financial results while we transitioned to new independent sales distributors. While we believe these transitions have been managed effectively, similar occurrences could happen in the future with different results which could have a greater adverse effect on our operations than we have previously experienced. • We are subject to complex and costly regulation. Our products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other national, federal and state governmental authorities. It can be costly and time-consuming to obtain regulatory clearance and/or approval to market medical products. Clearance and/or approval might not be granted for a new or modified device or other product on a timely basis, if at all. Regulations are subject to change as a result of legislative, administrative or judicial action, which may further increase our costs or reduce sales. Unless an exception applies, the FDA 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS requires that the manufacturer of new medical products or a new indication for use of, or other significant change in, an existing medical device obtain either 510(k) pre-market notification clearance or pre-market approval before those products can be marketed or sold in the U.S. Modifications or enhancements to a product that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in the intended use of the product, technology, materials, labeling, packaging, or manufacturing process may also require a new 510(k) clearance. The FDA has proposed changes to its 510(k) pre-market clearance process and although we cannot predict with certainty the future impact of these initiatives, it appears that the time and cost to get many of our medical devices to market could increase significantly. This could impact both our OEM Solutions customers as well as Symmetry Surgical products. In addition, we are subject to regulations covering manufacturing practices, product labeling and advertising, and adverse-event reporting that apply after we have obtained clearance or approval to sell a product. Our failure to maintain clearances or approvals for existing products, to obtain clearance or approval for new or modified products, or to adhere to regulations for manufacturing, labeling, advertising or adverse event reporting could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Further, if we determine a product manufactured or marketed by us does not meet our specifications, published standards or regulatory requirements, we may seek to correct the product or withdraw the product from the market, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Many of our facilities and procedures, and those of our suppliers, are subject to ongoing oversight, including periodic inspection by governmental authorities. Compliance with production, safety, quality control and quality assurance regulations can be costly and time-consuming. The sales and marketing of medical products is coming under increased scrutiny by the FDA and other regulatory agencies and enforcement bodies. If our sales and marketing activities fail to comply with FDA regulations or guidelines, or other applicable laws, we may be subject to warnings or enforcement actions from the FDA or other enforcement bodies. • Any claims in excess of our insurance coverage limits may result in substantial costs and a reduction in its available capital resources. We maintains property insurance policies covering physical damage to its equipment, facilities, buildings and inventory; employer’s liability insurance generally covering death or work injury of employees; product liability insurance covering product liability claims arising from the use, consumption or operation of its products; general liability insurance covering certain incidents to third parties that occur on or in the premises of the Corporation; business interruption insurance, and directors and officers liability insurance, among others. Our insurance coverage, however, may not be sufficient to cover all claims. As we expand our Symmetry Surgical sales efforts into multiple international countries it may increase the risk of claims. • Our Symmetry Surgical sales efforts may be impaired by consolidation of customers or an inability to compete with regard to pricing or products. Our Symmetry Surgical segment’s direct sales success relies upon its ability to provide products to customers on competitive price, delivery and quantity terms. Some of our customers utilize a single or small group of suppliers, and some producers utilize a small or limited group of distributors. If consolidation in the hospital industry continues we may lose customers that are absorbed into larger hospital companies that work with a limited number of competitive suppliers. In addition, our competitors may provide products similar to ours on a more price competitive basis, or we may find that we are unable to secure necessary products on a price or quantity basis required by our customers. Further, we may be unable to secure distribution rights for products required by our customers, causing them to consolidate their purchasing with competitors who are able to provide such products. Finally, some of the manufacturers for whom we provide distribution services might decide to sell directly to customers, bypassing our distribution services. If any of these events should occur, it would impair our direct sales business and cause a decline in revenue and profit. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS • Our operating results are subject to significant potential fluctuation and historical results should not be relied on as an indication of our future results. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or year to year in the future due to a combination of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: º the timing of significant orders and shipments, including the effects of changes in inventory management practices by our customers; º the number, timing and significance of new products and product introductions and enhancements by us, our customers and our competitors; º changes in pricing policies by us and our competitors; º changes in medical treatment or regulatory practices; º delays caused by the regulatory approval process for our new products; º restrictions and delays caused by regulatory review of our customers’ products; º our ability to meet customer demand for certain products or types of products; º the utilization of our manufacturing assets; º significantly changing quality and regulatory requirements from the FDA and our customers; º recalls of our or our customers’ products; and º availability and cost of raw materials. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. We cannot assure you that our revenue will increase or be sustained in future periods or that we will be profitable in any future period. Any shortfalls in revenue or earnings from levels expected by securities or industry analysts could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock in any given period. • If we do not retain key individuals and retain and attract skilled manufacturing workers and sales representatives, we may not be able to operate successfully, and we may not be able to meet our strategic objectives. Our success depends in part upon the retention of key managerial, sales and technical personnel, and skilled manufacturing workers. We compete for such personnel with other companies and organizations, many of which are larger and have greater name recognition and financial and other resources than we do. Many of these competitors are located in the same limited geographic areas in which our current operations are located. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining our current personnel or in hiring or retaining qualified personnel in the future. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire or retain qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate successfully. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our executive officers, senior management or other key personnel. In our industry, skilled manufacturing workers are difficult to identify and hire because we compete with numerous precision manufacturing companies to attract and retain qualified and highly skilled manufacturing employees. Our Northeast Indiana and Massachusetts facilities, in particular, face significant and increasing competition, including from certain of our customers and other companies, such as orthopedic related start-up companies located in or near Warsaw, Indiana or in Massachusetts. Some of these competitors are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. If we are not able to retain and attract skilled manufacturing employees, we may be unable to support our anticipated growth, which could adversely affect our profitability. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our Symmetry Surgical segment relies on our direct sales force. Our competitors may try to recruit our key Symmetry Surgical employees, or certain key employees may elect to leave the Corporation. The loss of key Symmetry Surgical employees could impair our ability to successfully operate the Symmetry Surgical business, resulting in loss of sales and profit. • A significant shift in technologies or methods used in the treatment of damaged or diseased bone and tissue could make our products obsolete or less attractive. The development of new technologies could reduce or shift demand for our products. For example, pharmaceutical advances could result in non-surgical treatments gaining more widespread acceptance as a viable alternative to orthopedic implants. The emergence of successful new biological tissue-based or synthetic materials to regenerate damaged or diseased bone and to repair damaged tissue could minimize or delay the need for implant surgery and provide other biological alternatives to orthopedic implants. New surgical procedures could diminish demand for our instruments or implants. New sterilization methods could also limit the demand for our sterilization cases. Any of these or other shifts in technologies or methods used in the treatment of damaged or diseased bone and tissue could adversely affect demand for our products. In recent years we have seen a trend to more customer specific implants which require less instrument sets and if this trend were to increase, it may reduce the demand for our reusable instruments. We have also seen a trend to try and replace reusable instruments, which we largely make, with disposable instruments, which we do source on a limited basis. If this trend gains significant momentum, we would have to retool our facilities to support this demand. We have also seen several large manufacturers begin reprocessing of single use devices for resale despite single use labeling. If this trend gains momentum, it could place pricing pressure on some Symmetry Surgical instrument products. • We depend on third party suppliers, and in some cases a single third party supplier, for key components and raw materials used in our manufacturing processes and the loss of these sources could harm our business. We use plastic, titanium, cobalt chrome, stainless steel and nickel alloys, and various other raw materials in our products. Although we generally believe these materials are readily available from multiple sources, from time to time we rely on a limited number of suppliers and in some cases on a single source vendor. For example, we obtain patented Radel® R plastic, which is designed to withstand intense heat produced during frequent sterilizations, for use in our instrument handles and plastic cases from a single supplier. Further, some of our raw materials are produced in areas of the world that are subject to political and other disruptions that could impair supply. Any supply interruption in a limited or sole-sourced component or raw material could materially harm our ability to manufacture our products until a new source of supply, if any, could be found. Further, our efforts to cover such materials could be costly and impair our ability to meet our contractual obligations for certain products on a profitable basis. We may be unable to find a sufficient alternative supply channel in a reasonable time period or on commercially reasonable terms if at all. This could interrupt our business, cause us to become involved in litigation with suppliers or customers, impair our profitability and/or reduce the quality of our products. In addition, changes in suppliers may require customer approval, which could delay the production and sale of the products we manufacture. In our Symmetry Surgical segment, we have several products which are sourced from a single manufacturer. If that manufacturer experiences issues with its ability to supply the product we require, raises the price of that product, or otherwise impairs our ability to obtain the product, it would reduce our sales and delay or prevent products from reaching our customers. Additionally, certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act may soon require us to report on “conflict minerals” used in our products and the due diligence plan we put in place to track whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in certain of our products, disrupt our supply of raw materials, or adversely impact the price that we pay for certain raw materials. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS • Our current and future levels of indebtedness may limit our ability to operate our business, finance acquisitions and pursue new business strategies. As of December 29, 2012, our total indebtedness, including short-term revolving lines of credit, long-term senior secured debt, subordinated debt and capital lease obligations was $213,133 and we had $102,000 of our $200,000 revolving credit facility remaining available. Our revolving credit facility, maturing in November 2015; our bank term loans, maturing in December 2016; and our senior subordinated term notes, maturing in December 2017, all contain covenants limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In December 2011, we used a substantial amount of debt to finance the acquisition of the Codman surgical instruments business for $165,687. The Codman acquisition was almost entirely financed through the use of debt, including approximately $50,000 of our line of credit, the addition of $50,000 in bank term loans, plus $65,000 in senior subordinated debt. In the future we may incur additional debt to finance acquisitions, business opportunities, capital expenditures or other capital requirements. Our indebtedness could: • make us more vulnerable to unfavorable economic conditions; • make it more difficult to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; • make us susceptible to fluctuations in market interest rates that affect the cost of our borrowings to the extent that our variable rate debt is not covered by interest rate derivative agreements; and • make it more difficult to pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances and collaborations. Our ability to service our recently increased level of indebtedness will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, including but not limited to all of the factors and risks discussed herein. Some of these factors are beyond our control. We believe that, based upon current levels of operations, we will be able to meet our debt service obligations when due. Significant assumptions underlie this belief, including, among others, that we will continue to be successful in implementing our business strategy and that there will be no material adverse developments in our business, liquidity or capital requirements. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness and to meet our other obligations and commitments, we may be required to refinance our debt or to dispose of assets to obtain funds for such purpose. We cannot be certain that refinancing or asset dispositions could be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, if at all, or would be permitted by the terms of our debt instruments. To the extent we incur additional indebtedness or other obligations in the future, the risks associated with our indebtedness described above, including our possible inability to service our debt, would increase. • Failure to satisfy the obligations and maintain compliance with our lending agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business. Each of our lending arrangements requires timely payments of interest and our Bank Term Loan requires quarterly principal payments which commenced September 2012. Additionally, both lending arrangements include various restrictive covenants where compliance is essential for credit availability. We may be unable to comply with the financial ratios or covenants and, if we fail to do so, we may be unable to obtain waivers from our lenders. Failure to comply with any payment or compliance requirements of our debt would entitle the lenders to, among other things, accelerate the maturity or terminate the availability of credit commitments. • Our lending agreements contain restrictions that limit our ability to pay dividends, incur additional debt, make acquisitions and make other investments. Our lending agreements contain covenants that restrict our ability to make distributions to stockholders or other payments unless we satisfy certain financial tests and comply with various financial ratios. Our lending agreements also contain covenants that limit our ability to incur indebtedness, invest in our foreign operations, acquire other businesses and make capital expenditures, and impose various other restrictions. These covenants could affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities as they arise. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS • Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future. Our future capital needs are uncertain and we may need to raise additional funds in the future through debt or equity offerings. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to: º revenue generated by sales of our products; º expenses incurred in manufacturing and selling our products; º costs of developing new products or technologies; º costs associated with capital expenditures; º costs associated with our expansion; º costs associated with regulatory compliance, including maintaining compliance with the quality system regulations imposed by the FDA; º the number and timing of acquisitions and other strategic transactions; º working capital requirements related to growing new acquisitions or existing business; º expansion of our international or domestic facilities; and º costs of litigation, awards or other legal issues that arise. As a result of these factors, we may need to raise additional funds, and these funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Furthermore, if we issue equity or convertible debt securities to raise additional funds, our existing stockholders may experience dilution, and the new equity or convertible debt securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stockholders. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, execute our business strategy, take advantage of future opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated customer requirements. • We may not realize all of the sales expected from new product development programs. We incur substantial expenses in developing and testing new products and related devices. These expenses have continued to increase over recent years. Our realization of additional revenue from new product development efforts is inherently subject to a number of important risks and uncertainties, including, directly or indirectly, end-user acceptance of the product, reimbursement approval by third-party payers such as Medicaid, Medicare and private insurers and, in some cases, FDA or comparable foreign regulatory approval of the product. In addition, our customers typically have no contractual requirement to purchase from us the products that we develop, and they could seek to have another supplier or in-house facility manufacture products that we have developed (or substitutes for them). We also incur costs and make capital expenditures for new product development and production based upon certain estimates of production volumes for our existing and anticipated products. If the actual demand for our products is less than planned, our revenue and net income may decline. • Our earnings would be negatively impacted if we write off goodwill or intangible assets created as a result of our various acquisitions. As a result of acquisitions, we have accumulated a substantial amount of goodwill, amounting to $229,134 as of December 29, 2012, or 37.9% of our total assets as of such date. Goodwill and certain intangible assets are not amortized but rather are tested for impairment by us annually or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances develop that would likely result in impairment. Examples of such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal or business climate, an adverse regulatory action, unanticipated competition or financial restatements. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS • If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and property rights, or are subject to intellectual property claims by third parties, our business could be harmed. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, copyrights, know-how, trademarks, license agreements and contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights to our technologies and products. We cannot guarantee that the steps we have taken or will take to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate or that they will deter infringement, misappropriation or violation of our intellectual property. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any litigation could result in substantial expenses and may not adequately protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, the laws of some of the countries in which our products are or may be sold may not protect our products and intellectual property to the same extent as U.S. laws, if at all. We may be unable to protect our rights in trade secrets and unpatented proprietary technology in these countries. If our trade secrets become known, we may lose our competitive advantages. We seek to protect our trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology, in part, with confidentiality agreements with our employees, independent distributors and customers. We cannot confirm, however, that: º these agreements will not be breached; º these agreements will be enforced by a court or other judicial body; º we will have adequate remedies for any breach; or º trade secrets, know-how and other unpatented proprietary technology will not otherwise become known to or independently developed by our competitors. In addition, third parties may claim that we are infringing, misappropriating or violating their intellectual property rights. We could be found to infringe those intellectual property rights, which could affect our ability to manufacture any affected product. In addition, any protracted litigation to defend or prosecute our intellectual property rights could drain our financial resources, divert the time and effort of our management and cause customers to delay or limit their purchases of the affected product until resolution of the litigation. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not successful, could result in substantial costs and could harm our reputation. In addition, intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following: º cease selling or using any of our products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which could adversely affect our revenue; º obtain a license from the holder of the intellectual property right alleged to have been infringed, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; and º redesign or, in the case of trademark claims, rename our products to avoid infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may not be possible and could be costly and time-consuming if it is possible to do so. • We are subject to risks associated with our foreign operations. We have significant international operations and we continue to expand and grow these operations. We have operations in the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Malaysia and Germany and sales into over 100 countries. Certain risks are inherent in international operations that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or profitability, including, but not limited to: º difficulties in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; º foreign customers who may have longer payment cycles than customers in the U.S.; º tax rates in certain foreign countries that may exceed those in the U.S. and foreign earnings that may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions including transfer pricing restrictions when products produced in one country are sold to an affiliated entity in another country; 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS º general economic and political conditions in countries where we operate or where end users of our products reside; º difficulties associated with managing a large organization spread throughout various countries; º changes in governmental approaches to foreign industry; º changes in tax, training or other incentives upon which we relied (or rely) in deciding to do business in a particular country; º wars, insurrections or other strife; º difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights; º compliance obligations under a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and º compliance with international laws and regulations, including but not limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by our distributors in global markets. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks. We cannot assure you that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect on our international operations or our business as a whole. • Efforts to acquire additional companies or product lines may divert our managerial resources away from our business operations, and if we complete additional acquisitions, we may incur or assume additional liabilities or experience integration problems. In the past seven years, we have completed eight acquisitions. In 2011 we completed two acquisitions. In August of 2011 we acquired Olsen Medical for $11,000 and in December 2011 we acquired the assets of Codman surgical instruments for $165,687. During 2012 we focused on the integration of these two acquisitions. In the future, we may seek to acquire additional businesses or product lines for various reasons, including providing new product manufacturing capabilities, adding new customers, increasing penetration with existing customers or expanding into new geographic markets. Our ability to successfully grow through additional acquisitions depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financings. These additional efforts could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and integration of our recently completed acquisitions. If we complete additional acquisitions, we may also experience: • difficulties integrating any acquired companies, personnel and products into our existing business; • delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products; • diversion of our management’s time and attention from other business concerns; • limited or no direct prior experience in new markets or countries we may enter; • higher costs of integration than we anticipated; • difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage these businesses; • difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout our acquired companies; or • adverse customer reaction to the business combination. Additional acquisitions could also materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt and acquisition expenses or requiring us to amortize acquired assets. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS • Currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our revenue and financial results. We generate a significant portion of our revenue and incur a significant portion of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. We have operations in the United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Malaysia and Germany as well as sales in over 100 countries. Currency exchange rates are subject to fluctuation due to, among other things, changes in local, regional or global economic conditions, the imposition of currency exchange restrictions and unexpected changes in regulatory or taxation environments. To the extent that we are unable to match revenue received in foreign currencies with costs incurred in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations in any such currency could have an adverse effect on our financial results. During 2012, we hedged approximately 80% of our Symmetry Surgical segment exposure as we increased our annual purchases payable in Euros with the addition of the Codman surgical instruments acquisition. • We may be adversely affected as a result of the long lead times required for sales of certain new products, including our customer launches. We often compete for business at the beginning of the development cycle of new medical devices or upon customer redesign of existing medical devices. Our customers generally must obtain clearance or approval from the FDA before commercially distributing their products. Unless exempt, a new medical device must be approved for commercial distribution in the U.S. by the FDA through the 510(k) pre-market Notification Process or, in some cases, through the more burdensome pre-market approval, or PMA, process. In recent years it has taken three to nine months from the date of submission to the FDA to obtain 510(k) clearance and one to three years from the date of submission to the FDA to obtain approval through the PMA process, but in each case the approval may take significantly longer. This results in long lead times for some of our customers’ new products, which may make it difficult in the short term for us to obtain sales of new products to increase revenue or replace any unexpected decline in sales of existing products. • We may be adversely impacted by work stoppages, other labor matters, or new labor laws. Currently, none of our U.S. facilities are unionized. However, over the last 11 years, our employees at two of our locations have engaged in some consideration of becoming unionized, although have decided against doing so. Certain foreign facilities have a works counsel or similar group in place pursuant to applicable local country laws and regulations. In addition, some of our orthopedic device customers and some suppliers have unionized work forces. While we have not experienced any adverse effects from work stoppages or slow-downs at our customers’ or suppliers’ facilities, work stoppages or slow-downs experienced by us, our suppliers or our customers or their suppliers could result in slow-downs or the interruption of production at facilities where our products are made or used. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter strikes, further unionization efforts, new labor laws, or other types of conflicts with labor unions or our employees, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. • If a natural or man-made disaster strikes one or more of our manufacturing and distribution facilities or Information Technology infrastructure, we may be unable to manufacture certain products for a substantial amount of time and our revenue could decline. We have seventeen manufacturing and distribution facilities located in the U.S., United Kingdom, France, Ireland, Malaysia and Germany. These facilities and the manufacturing equipment and personnel know-how that we use to produce and distribute our products would be difficult to replace and could require substantial lead-time to repair or replace. Our facilities may be affected by natural or man-made disasters. In the event that one or more of our facilities was affected by a disaster, we would be forced to attempt to shift production to our other manufacturing facilities or rely on third-party manufacturers, and our other facilities or a third-party manufacturer may not have the capability to effectively supply the affected products. Our Symmetry Surgical business provides global distribution from our Nashville, Tennessee headquarters. Should a disaster strike this facility, we would be forced to attempt to shift distribution to another facility in the U.S. or Europe and adversely affect our ability to ship and invoice product. Disruptions to the global transportation network could also affect our ability to ship and invoice product. Although we have insurance for damage to our property and the interruption of our business, this insurance may not be sufficient in scope or amount to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS • We may experience difficulties, delays, performance impact or unexpected costs from consolidation of facilities. During 2010, we consolidated U.S. case manufacturing facilities into one location. This consolidation resulted in higher costs and delayed deliveries. In the future, we may be required to further consolidate our operations in order to improve our cost structure, achieve increased operating efficiencies, and improve our competitive standing or results of operations and/or to address unfavorable economic conditions. We may also lose favorable tax incentives or not be able to renew a lease on acceptable terms, resulting in the need to consolidate. As part of these actions, we may further reduce staff, make changes to certain capital projects, close certain production operations and abandon leases for certain facilities that will not be used in our operations. In conjunction with any actions, we will continue to make significant investments and build the framework for our future growth. We may not realize, in full or in part, all of the anticipated benefits and savings from these efforts due to unforeseen difficulties, delays or unexpected costs. If we are unable to achieve or maintain all of the resulting savings or benefits to our business or other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. As a result of the global economic downturn, we have worked and will continue to work to increase cost efficiencies and to reduce discretionary expenditures, and in the event the economy does not continue to recover, or if it further deteriorates, we may also be required to consider further steps to improve our cost structure. Additionally, the anticipated benefits of our cost reduction initiatives are based on forecasts which could vary substantially from actual results, and we cannot provide assurance that any such cost saving initiatives will not have a material adverse effect on our business. • Significant changes to U.S. federal, state and foreign tax laws and regulations that apply to our operations and activities could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our operations are subject to the tax laws, regulations and administrative practices of the U.S., U.S. state jurisdictions and other countries in which we do business. Significant changes in these rules could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations. For example, our effective tax rate reflects the impact of undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have been provided because such earnings are intended to be invested indefinitely outside the U.S. Substantial reform of U.S. tax law regarding tax on certain foreign profits could result in an increase in our effective tax rate, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Risks Related to Our Industry • Orthopedic device manufacturers have significant leverage over their independent suppliers and consolidation could increase their leverage, which could result in the loss of customers or force us to reduce our prices. We compete with many manufacturers to develop and supply implants, surgical instruments and cases to a limited number of large orthopedic device manufacturers. As a result, orthopedic device manufacturers have historically had significant leverage over their independent suppliers. For example, independent suppliers like us are subject to continuing pressure from the major orthopedic device manufacturers to reduce the cost of products while maintaining quality levels. In the past, the medical device industry has experienced substantial consolidation. If the medical device industry, and the orthopedic device industry in particular, continue to consolidate, competition to provide products to orthopedic device manufacturers may become more intense. Orthopedic device manufacturers may seek to use their market power to negotiate price or other concessions for our products. If we are forced to reduce prices or if we lose customers because of competition, our revenue and results of operations would suffer. In recent years, the industry has experienced a lack of demand and competition has become more aggressive trying to win orders and fill their facilities. • Our business is indirectly subject to healthcare industry cost containment measures and other industry trends affecting pricing that could result in reduced sales of or prices for our products. Acceptance of our customers’ products by hospitals, outpatient centers and physicians depend on, among other things, reimbursement approval of third-party payers such as Medicaid, Medicare and private insurers. The continuing efforts of government, insurance companies and other payers of healthcare costs to contain or reduce those costs could lead to lower reimbursement rates or non-reimbursement for medical procedures that 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS use our products. As that occurs, medical device manufacturers might insist that we lower prices on products related to the affected medical device or they might significantly reduce or eliminate their purchases from us of these related products, which could affect our profitability. • We and our customers are subject to substantial government regulation that is subject to change and could force us to make modifications to how we develop, manufacture and price our products. The medical device industry is regulated extensively by governmental authorities, principally the FDA and corresponding state and foreign regulatory agencies. Some of our manufacturing processes are required to comply with quality systems regulations, including current good manufacturing practices and quality system requirements that cover the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of our products. Further, some of our facilities, records and manufacturing processes are subject to periodic unscheduled inspections by the FDA or other agencies. Failure to comply with applicable medical device regulatory requirements could result in, among other things, warning letters, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, repairs, replacements, refunds, recalls or seizures of products, total or partial suspensions of production, refusal of the FDA or other regulatory agencies to grant future pre-market clearances or approvals, withdrawals or suspensions of current clearances or approvals and criminal prosecution. In addition, orthopedic implants and other medical devices produced by our customers are subject to intensive regulation and potential pre-approval requirements by the FDA and similar international agencies that govern a wide variety of product activities from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales and distribution. Recently, the FDA has imposed more significant requirements on supplier control procedures that may require additional audits, process validations and potentially increased costs to get products to market. Compliance with these regulations may be time consuming, burdensome and expensive for our customers and, indirectly, for us, to the extent that our customers’ compliance depends on our operations. These regulations could negatively affect our customers’ abilities to sell their products, which in turn would adversely affect our ability to sell our products. This may result in higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated revenue. The regulations to which we and our customers are subject are complex, change frequently and have become more stringent over time. Federal and state legislatures have periodically considered programs to reform or amend the U.S. healthcare system at both the federal and state levels. The FDA has implemented a substantial 510(k) reform amendment that has changed the requirements and review process. The FDA may also review all current and past 510(k)s to assure they are compliant with current regulatory requirements. These regulations may potentially increase governmental involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates or otherwise change the environment in which healthcare industry participants operate. In 2012, the FDA has required all contract manufacturer companies that produce a finished medical device to register in the Electronic Registration and Listing System (FURLS). If a device requires a premarket approval or notification before being marketed in the US, then the owner/operator needs to submit the FDA premarket submission number (510(k), PMA, PDP, HDE). The FDA has also implemented new Device Registration and Listing requirements requiring all contract manufacturers and sterilizers of finished devices to register and list regardless of whether they put the device into commercial distribution or return the device to the manufacturer or specification developer will therefore also be subject to potential future FDA audit inspections. Foreign governmental authorities that regulate the manufacture and sale of medical devices have become increasingly stringent and, to the extent we sell our products in foreign countries, we may be subject to rigorous regulation in the future. Regulatory changes could result in restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations, higher than anticipated costs or lower than anticipated revenue. • If our customers fail to obtain, or experience significant delays in obtaining, FDA clearances or approvals to commercially distribute our future products our ability to sell our products could suffer. Some of our products are subject to rigorous regulatory pre-approval by the FDA and other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. Our customers are typically responsible for obtaining the applicable regulatory approval for the commercial distribution of our products. The process of obtaining this approval, particularly from the FDA, can be costly and time consuming, and there can be no assurance that our 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS customers will obtain the required approvals on a timely basis, if at all. The FDA, for example, assigns medical devices to one of three classes which determine, among other things, the type and degree of FDA approval required to commercially distribute the device in the U.S. We produce Class I, II and III devices. Class I devices are deemed to present little risk to patients and are generally exempt from FDA approval requirements. Class II devices can generally be commercially distributed only after the device has received 510(k) clearance. The FDA will clear marketing of a medical device through the 510(k) process if certain design, testing and validation requirements are met and it is demonstrated that the device is “substantially equivalent” to a device that was legally marketed prior to May 28, 1976, or to another commercially available device subsequently cleared through the 510(k) Pre-Market Notification process. This process generally takes three to six months, but recently has taken substantially longer, up to nine months or more, due to increased review time and scrutiny of requirements to assure a more safe and effective product. Before a Class III device can be commercially distributed in the U.S., a pre-market approval, or PMA, must be obtained from the FDA. The PMA process can be expensive and uncertain, requires detailed and comprehensive scientific and other data and generally takes between one and three years, but may take significantly longer. The commercial distribution of any products we develop that require regulatory clearance may be delayed. In addition, because we cannot assure you that any new products or any product enhancements we develop for commercial distribution in the U.S. will be exempt from the FDA market clearance requirements or subject to the shorter 510(k) clearance process, the regulatory approval process for our products or product enhancements may take significantly longer than anticipated by us or our customers. • We may be adversely affected by the impact of environmental and safety regulations. We are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations governing the protection of the environment and occupational health and safety, including laws regulating air emissions, wastewater discharges, and the management and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, and the health and safety of our employees. We are also required to obtain permits from governmental authorities for certain operations. If we violate or fail to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, we could incur fines, penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Environmental laws tend to become more stringent over time, and we could incur material expenses in the future relating to compliance with future environmental laws. In addition, we could be held responsible for costs and damages arising from any contamination at our past or present facilities or at third-party waste disposal sites. Such costs could be material. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur material liabilities as a result of any contamination or injury. • The impact of the recently enacted federal healthcare reform legislation on our business remains uncertain. In March 2010, the U.S. Congress adopted and President Obama signed into law comprehensive health care reform legislation through the passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act (H.R. 3590) and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act (H.R. 4872). To help offset the cost of the healthcare reforms provided therein, the legislation imposes a 2.3% excise tax on all domestic sales of medical devices after December 31, 2012. With the addition of the 2.3% excise tax, the medical device industry will bear a significant additional cost burden, or be required to find ways to pass such costs on to its customers. We cannot predict with certainty the ultimate effect the federal health care reform will have on us. Many of the details of the federal legislation have not yet been finalized or are slated for implementation in the future. Accordingly, while it is too early to estimate the ultimate impact of the excise tax or any health care reform, in general, on our business, the legislation could have a material adverse effect on our customers’ businesses and our business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. Effective August 1, 2013, certain manufacturers of medical devices covered by Medicare, Medicaid, and the Children’s Health Insurance Program who make payments or other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals will be required to track and report such payments and transfers under the regulations known as the National Physician Payment Transparency Program. Efforts to comply with these requirements may result in an increase in operational expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities and failure to comply fully could cause the Corporation to incur costs and expenses associated with remedial compliance or fines. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS • In recent years, changing laws and increasingly complex corporate governance and public disclosure requirements could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Changing laws, regulations and standards, including those relating to corporate governance and public disclosure such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and recently enacted SEC regulations, have created additional compliance requirements for companies such as ours. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in operational expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock • Our common stock may be volatile and could decline substantially. There has been significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of companies operating in the medical device industry, including our company, which has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Price declines in our common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including: º actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; º our announcements or our competitors’ announcements regarding new products, significant contracts, acquisitions or strategic investments; º loss of any of our key management or technical personnel; º conditions affecting orthopedic device manufacturers or the medical device industry generally; º product liability lawsuits against us or our customers; º clinical trial results with respect to our customers’ medical devices; º changes in our growth rates or our competitors’ growth rates; º developments regarding our patents or proprietary rights, or those of our competitors; º FDA and international actions with respect to the government regulation of medical devices and third-party reimbursement practices; º public concern as to the safety of our products; º changes in health care policy in the U.S. and internationally; º conditions in the financial markets in general or changes in general economic conditions; º our inability to raise additional capital; º changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding our common stock, other comparable companies or the medical device industry generally, or lack of analyst coverage of our common stock; º sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and five percent stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of common stock; º changes in accounting principles; and º the announcement of financial restatements. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities or financial restatements, litigation has often been brought against that company. If litigation of this type is brought against us, it could be extremely expensive and divert management’s attention and the Corporation’s resources. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS • Our Certificate of Incorporation, our Bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our Certificate of Incorporation and our Bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: º providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms; º requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws; º eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; º prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; º establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings; º limiting the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal the by-laws; and º authorizing of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, shares of preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and shares of our common stock. We are also protected by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents us from engaging in a business combination with a person who becomes a 15.0% or greater stockholder for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such status unless certain board or stockholder approvals were obtained. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 