ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Some of the statements in this report and in particular, statements found in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, that are not historical in nature may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are often identified by the words “will,” “should,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “expect,” “intend,” “estimate,” “hope,” or similar expressions. These statements reflect management’s current views with respect to future events and are subject to risks and uncertainties. There are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control. These factors, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors described below. Our actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements, and accordingly, we can give no assurances that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on our results of operations or financial condition. In view of these uncertainties, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We expressly disclaim any obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements that have been made to reflect the occurrence of events after the date hereof. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all other information included in this report, including the financial statements and the related notes herein, as well as in our other public filings, before making any investment decision regarding our stock. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. We are a non-operating shell company. We are a public shell company with no operations and we are seeking to effect a merger, acquisition or other business combination with an operating company by using a combination of capital stock, cash on hand, or other funding sources, if available. There can be no assurances that we will be successful in identifying acquisition candidates or that, if identified, we will be able to consummate a transaction on terms acceptable to us. If we do not have sufficient liquid assets to satisfy our liabilities we will seek to raise additional capital through the issuance of equity or debt, including loans from related parties. Such additional capital may not be available timely or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our plans to repay our liabilities as they become due may be impacted adversely by our inability to have sufficient liquid assets to satisfy our liabilities. Our independent registered public accounting firm’s report on our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 includes an explanatory paragraph regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. As shown in our historical financial statements, we have incurred significant recurring net losses and negative cash flows from operations for the past several years and as of December 31, 2012, our financial statements reflect negative working capital and a stockholders’ equity deficiency. 2 Table of Contents We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock, and, consequently, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment is if the price of our common stock appreciates. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Our common stock is currently quoted for trading on the OTC Pink Market-which may adversely impact the liquidity of our shares and reduce the value of an investment in our stock. Effective August 14, 2006, our common stock was delisted from quotation on the Nasdaq Global Market (formerly known as the Nasdaq National Market) and on the same day our common stock became quoted on the Over-The-Counter Market on the NASD Electronic Bulletin Board (OTCBB) and it now is quoted for trading on the OTC Pink -electronic quotation system–Current Information Tier of the OTC Markets. Our common stock has historically been sporadically or “thinly traded” (meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our shares at or near ask prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent) and no assurances can be given that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained in the future or that current trading levels will be sustained. You may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you desire to liquidate your shares. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. Because our common stock is considered a “penny stock” any investment in our common stock is considered to be a high-risk investment and is subject to restrictions on marketability. Our common stock is currently traded on the OTC Pink Market and is considered a “penny stock.” The OTC Pink Market is generally regarded as a less efficient trading market than the NASDAQ Market. The SEC has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in “penny stocks.” Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC, which specifies information about penny stocks and the nature and significance of risks of the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and any salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements indicating the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for our common stock. Since our common stock is subject to the regulations applicable to penny stocks, the market liquidity for our common stock could be adversely affected because the regulations on penny stocks could limit the ability of broker-dealers to sell our common stock and thus your ability to sell our common stock in the secondary market. There is no assurance our common stock will be quoted on NASDAQ or the NYSE or listed on any exchange, even if eligible. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price for our common stock has been and is likely to continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control. 3 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock may cause our stock price to decline. A small number of our current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares of our common stock. Shares held by our officers, directors and principal stockholders are considered “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act and, are eligible for resale subject to the volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. Sales of a substantial number of shares, or the expectation that such sale may occur, could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. Moreover, the holders of a substantial number of our shares of common stock have rights to require us to file registration statements to permit the resale of their shares in the public market or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. We also have registered all common stock that we may issue under our stock incentive plan. Accordingly, these shares, when registered, can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to restrictions under the securities laws. If any of these stockholders cause a large number of securities to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock. These sales also could impede our ability to raise future capital. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could affect our stock price adversely and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and adversely affect the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: • Our board of directors has the exclusive right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • Our stockholders may not act by written consent. As a result, a holder or holders controlling a majority of our capital stock would be able to take certain actions only at a stockholders’ meeting; • No stockholder may call a special meeting of stockholders. This may make it more difficult for stockholders to take certain actions; • Our stockholders may not remove a director without cause, and our certificate of incorporation provides for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms. As a result, it could take up to three years for stockholders to replace the entire board; • Our certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors. This limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; • Stockholders must provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and • Our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock. The ability to authorize undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. 4 Table of Contents A significant portion of our voting power is concentrated and, as a result, our other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters may be limited. Elao, LLC, a limited liability company controlled by Alan Lipton and a trust established for the benefit of Mr. Lipton’s child together own approximately 38.6% of our outstanding voting stock. Two other stockholders control an additional 34.52% of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, each of these stockholders will have significant influence over the management and affairs of Odimo and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of Odimo or its assets, for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control limits the ability of our other stockholders to influence corporate matters and, as a result, these stockholders may take actions that Odimo’s other stockholders do not view as beneficial. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in its stock ownership. We have preliminarily reviewed the applicability of the annual limitations imposed by Section 382 caused by previous changes in our stock ownership and believe the availability of our net operating loss carryforwards is substantially limited. There can be no assurance that we will be able to utilize any net operating loss carryforwards in the future. This limitation may adversely affect our ability to attract certain business combination candidates and/or consummate a business combination with an operating business. Our limited resources make it impracticable to conduct a complete and exhaustive search for a business combination. Our limited resources and the lack of extensive management will likely make it impracticable to conduct a complete and exhaustive investigation and analysis of a business opportunity before we commit our resources thereto. Management decisions, therefore, will likely be made without detailed feasibility studies, independent analysis, market surveys and the like which, if we had more funds available to us, would be desirable. We will be particularly dependent in making decisions upon information provided by the promoter, owner, sponsor, or others associated with the business opportunity seeking our participation. WE CANNOT ASSURE YOU THAT FOLLOWING A BUSINESS COMBINATION WITH AN OPERATING BUSINESS, OUR COMMON STOCK WILL BE LISTED ON NASDAQ OR ANY OTHER SECURITIES EXCHANGE AND THEREFORE IT IS POSSIBLE THAT OUR SHAREHOLDERS WILL NOT BE ABLE TO LIQUIDATE THEIR INVESTMENT IN OUR STOCK AND WE MAY NOT HAVE ACCESS TO CAPITAL AVAILABLE TO COMPANIES TRADING ON THESE EXCHANGES. Following a business combination, we may seek the listing of our common stock on NASDAQ or the NYSE MKT. However, we cannot assure you that following such a transaction, we will be able to meet the initial listing standards of either of those or any other stock exchange, or that we will be able to maintain a listing of our common stock on either of those or any other stock exchange. The NASDAQ, NYSE, and NYSE MKT have adopted a “seasoning” requirement for the listing of former reverse merger companies, which includes trading in another market for an adequate period of time at certain minimum price levels, with an adequate number of round lot shareholders and completing SEC filings during this time, although there is an exception to this requirement for firmly underwritten public offerings of at least $40 million. We may be unable to comply with seasoning requirements for listing prior to the listing deadline and we may be unable to qualify for the $40 million exception, which could adversely impact our ability to access U.S. stock exchanges. If an active trading market for our shares does not develop, the value and liquidity of our shares will be materially and adversely affected. After completing a business combination, until our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ or another stock exchange, we expect that our common stock would be eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, another over-the-counter quotation system, or on the “pink sheets,” where our shareholders may find it more difficult to dispose of shares or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of our common stock. In addition, we would be subject to an SEC rule that, if it failed to meet the criteria set forth in such rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell 5 Table of Contents securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling our common stock, which may further affect our common stock’s liquidity. This would also make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital following a business combination. 