ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating us and this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Certain statements in "Risk Factors" are forward-looking statements. See "Forward-Looking Statements" above. Risks Relating to Our Business Adverse changes in global economic conditions may negatively affect our industry, business and results of operations. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced substantial disruption over the past 18 months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address these market conditions and the extent to which such government actions may prove effective remains unclear. The United States economy is currently undergoing a recession and the future economic environment may continue to worsen. The MRO product distribution industry is affected by changes in economic conditions outside our control, which can result in increased vacancies in the residential rental housing market and a general decrease in product demand from professional contractors and specialty distributors. Such economic 13 Table of Contents developments may affect our business in a number of ways. Reduced demand may drive us and our competitors to offer products at promotional prices, which would have a negative impact on our profitability. In addition, the current tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in, or cancellation of, orders for our products. If demand for our products continues to slow down or decrease, we will not be able to improve our revenues and we may run the risk of failing to satisfy the financial and other restrictive covenants to which we are subject under our existing indebtedness. Reduced revenues as a result of decreased demand may also reduce our working capital for planned growth and otherwise hinder our ability to improve our performance in connection with our long term strategy. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this and other periodic reports, and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. An impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill represents the difference between the purchase price of acquired companies and the related fair values of net assets acquired. We test goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. We compare the carrying value of a reporting unit, including goodwill, to the fair value of the unit. Carrying value is based on the assets and liabilities associated with the operations of that reporting unit. If the carrying value is less than the fair value, no impairment exists. If the carrying value is higher than the fair value, there is an indication of impairment. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indication of impairment exists. Factors may include, among others: a significant decline in our expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and slower growth rates. Any adverse change in these factors would have a significant impact on the recoverability of these assets and negatively affect our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. We compute the amount of impairment by comparing the implied fair value of reporting unit goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. We are required to record a non-cash impairment charge if the testing performed indicates that goodwill has been impaired. As with goodwill, we test our indefinite-lived intangible assets (primarily trade names) for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying value may not be recoverable. We estimate the fair value of the trademarks based on an income valuation model using the relief from royalty method, which requires assumptions related to projected revenues 14 Table of Contents from our annual long-range plan, assumed royalty rates that could be payable if we did not own the trademarks and a discount rate. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of assets. Should the value of goodwill or other intangible assets become impaired, there could be an adverse effect on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. Our allowance for doubtful accounts may prove inadequate or we may be negatively affected by credit risk exposures. Our business depends on the creditworthiness of our customers. We periodically review our allowance for doubtful accounts for adequacy considering economic conditions and trends, collateral values and credit quality indicators, including past charge-off experience and levels of past due accounts. We cannot be certain that our allowance for doubtful accounts will be adequate over time to cover losses in our accounts receivable because of adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets. The current economic environment is dynamic and the credit worthiness of our customers and the value of collateral underlying our accounts receivable can change significantly over very short periods of time. Our allowance may not keep pace with changes in the creditworthiness of our customers or collateral values. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, if the risk of a market, industry, or group of customers changes significantly, or if our allowance for doubtful accounts is not adequate, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. One of the key markets in which we operate is impacted by trends in home improvement, home remodeling and home building. Adverse changes in economic factors specific to these industries may negatively impact the rate of growth of our net sales. The professional contractor market is impacted by trends in home improvement, home remodeling and new home construction. Trends in these areas are in turn dependent upon a number of factors, including demographic trends, interest rates, tax policy, employment levels, consumer confidence and the economy generally. Unfavorable changes in demographics or a weakening of the national economy or of any regional or local economy in which we operate could adversely affect consumer spending, result in decreased demand for repair, improvement, remodeling or construction products and adversely affect our business. For example, during 2009 our average organic daily sales rate in the professional contractor and specialty distributor markets was down 25.3% and 18.5%, respectively. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and if we are unable to compete successfully we could lose customers, and our sales may decline. The MRO product distribution industry is highly competitive. We face significant competition from national and regional distributors which market their products through the use of direct sales forces as well as direct marketing and catalogs. In addition, we face competition from traditional channels of distribution such as retail outlets, small dealerships and large warehouse stores and from buying groups formed by smaller distributors, Internet-based procurement service companies, auction businesses and trade exchanges. We expect that new competitors may develop over time as Internet-based enterprises become more established and reliable and refine their service capabilities. In addition, the MRO product distribution industry is undergoing changes driven by industry consolidation and increased customer demands. Traditional MRO product distributors are consolidating operations and acquiring or merging with other MRO product distributors to achieve economies of scale and increase efficiency. This consolidation trend could cause the industry to become more competitive and make it more difficult for us to maintain our operating margins. 15 Table of Contents Competition in our industry is primarily based upon product line breadth, product availability, service capabilities and price. To the extent that existing or future competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing price or by increasing support service offerings, we may be required to lower our prices or to make additional expenditures for support services, thereby reducing our profitability. Fluctuations in the cost of raw materials, fuel prices or in currency exchange rates could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. As a distributor of manufactured products, our profitability is related to the prices we pay to the manufacturers from which we purchase our products and to the cost of transporting the products to us and our customers. The price that our suppliers charge us for our products is dependent in part upon the availability and cost of the raw materials used to produce those products. Such raw materials are often subject to price fluctuations, frequently due to factors beyond our control, including changes in supply and demand, general U.S. and international economic conditions, labor costs, competition and government regulations. Increases in the cost of raw materials, such as copper, oil, stainless steel, aluminum, zinc, plastic and PVC and other commodities and raw materials, have occurred in the past and adversely impacted our operating results. Transportation prices are significantly dependent on fuel prices, which generally change due to factors beyond our control, such as changes in worldwide demand, disruptions in supply, changes in the political climate in the Middle East and other regions and changes in government regulations, including existing and pending legislation and regulations relating to climate change. For example, efforts to combat climate change through reduction of greenhouse gases may result in higher fuel costs through taxation or other means. Fluctuations in raw materials and fuel prices may increase our costs and significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. A significant fluctuation in raw materials, fuel and transportation costs may also adversely affect us. For example, during 2005 and 2006, the cost of our products increased materially because of raw materials, fuel and transportation cost increases and other demand factors. During this period, a significant portion of our sales growth resulted from our price increases related to these increased costs. The nature and extent of such an impact is difficult to predict, quantify and measure. To the extent the costs of products increase or decrease, the prices we charge for our products may correspondingly increase or decrease, adversely affecting our revenues and profitability. In addition, many of our suppliers price their products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar or incur costs of production in non-U.S. currencies. Accordingly, depreciation of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies could increase the price we pay for these products. For example, a substantial portion of our products are sourced from suppliers in China and the value of the Chinese Yuan has increased relative to the U.S. dollar since July 2005, when it was allowed to fluctuate against a basket of foreign currencies. Most experts believe that the value of the Yuan will continue to increase relative to the U.S. dollar over the next few years. Such a move would most likely result in an increase in the cost of products that are sourced from suppliers in China. Loss of supplier agreements, lack of product availability or loss of delivery sources could decrease our revenues and profitability. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers or other suppliers. While in many instances we have agreements, including supply chain agreements, with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. Even though we can replace each of our suppliers and no individual supplier represents more than 6% of our total purchases, the loss of several supplier agreements, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products from our suppliers, could have a short-term material impact on our business. 16 Table of Contents In addition, supply interruptions could arise from shortages of raw materials, labor disputes or weather conditions affecting products or shipments, transportation disruptions or other factors beyond our control. Loss of a key foreign supplier could disrupt our supply chain for approximately 60 to 90 days, or longer, and loss of key suppliers from an individual country could result in disruptions of approximately 120 to 150 days, or longer. Short- and long-term disruptions in our supply chain would result in higher inventory levels as we replace similar product domestically, a higher cost of product and ultimately a decrease in our revenues and profitability. Although we are not substantially dependent on any individual supplier, a disruption in the timely availability of our product by our key suppliers could result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. We could face potential product quality and product liability claims relating to the products we distribute, which could result in a decline in revenues and profitability and negatively impact customer confidence. We rely on manufacturers and other suppliers to provide us with the products we sell and distribute. As we do not have direct control over the quality of the products manufactured or supplied by such third party suppliers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of the products we distribute. It is possible that inventory from a manufacturer or supplier could be sold to our customers and later be alleged to have quality problems or to have caused personal injury, subjecting us to potential claims from customers or third parties. The risk of claims may be greater with respect to our exclusive brand products, as these products are customarily manufactured by third party suppliers outside the United States, particularly in China. We have been subject to claims in the past, which have been resolved without material financial impact. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and can divert the attention of management and other personnel for significant time periods, regardless of the ultimate outcome. An unsuccessful product liability defense could be very costly and accordingly result in a decline in revenues and profitability. In addition, uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system may adversely affect us in resolving claims arising from our exclusive brand products manufactured in China. Because many laws and regulations are relatively new and the Chinese legal system is still evolving, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform. Finally, even if we are successful in defending any claim relating to the products we distribute, claims of this nature could negatively impact customer confidence in our products and our company. If the government of China were to reduce or withdraw the tax benefits they provide our Chinese suppliers, the cost of some of our products could increase and therefore our profitability may be significantly reduced. China's turnover tax system consists of value-added tax ("VAT"), consumption tax and business tax. Export sales are exempted under VAT rules and an exporter who incurs input VAT on the manufacture of goods can claim a tax rebate from Chinese tax authorities. Currently, our Chinese suppliers benefit from the tax rebates that China provides them to export their products. If these tax rebates are reduced or eliminated, some of our Chinese-sourced products could become more expensive for us, thereby reducing our profitability. In some cases, we are dependent on long supply chains, which may subject us to interruptions in the supply of many of the products that we distribute. A significant portion of the products that we distribute is imported from foreign countries, including China. We are thus dependent on long supply chains for the successful delivery of many of our products. The length and complexity of these supply chains make them vulnerable to numerous risks, many of which are beyond our control, which could cause significant interruptions or delays in delivery of our products. Factors such as labor disputes, currency fluctuations, changes in tariff or import policies, severe weather or terrorist attacks or armed hostilities may disrupt these supply chains. We expect more of our name brand and exclusive brand products will be imported in the future, which will further increase these risks. A significant interruption in our supply chains caused by any of the 17 Table of Contents above factors could result in increased costs or delivery delays and result in a decrease in our revenues and profitability. Our ability to both maintain our existing customer base and to attract new customers is dependent in many cases upon our ability to deliver products and fulfill orders in a timely and cost-effective manner. To ensure timely delivery of our products to our customers, we frequently rely on third parties, including couriers such as UPS and other national shippers as well as various local and regional trucking contractors and logistics consulting and management companies. Outsourcing this activity generates a number of risks, including decreased control over the delivery process and service timeliness and quality. Any sustained inability of these third parties to deliver our products to our customers could result in the loss of customers or require us to seek alternative delivery sources, if they are available, which may result in significantly increased costs and delivery delays. Furthermore, the need to identify and qualify substitute service providers or increase our internal capacity could result in unforeseen operations problems and additional costs. Moreover, if demand for our products increases, we may be unable to secure sufficient additional capacity from our current service providers, or others, on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The loss of any of our significant customers could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. Our 10 largest customers generated approximately $52.2 million, or approximately 5%, of our sales in the year ended December 25, 2009, and our largest customer accounted for approximately 1% of our sales in the year ended December 25, 2009. The loss of one or more of our significant customers or deterioration in our relations with any of them could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability. We may not be able to protect our trademarks, which could diminish the strength of our trademarks or limit our ability to use our trademarks and, accordingly, undermine our competitive position. We believe that our trademarks are important to our success and our competitive position. For instance, we market and sell products primarily through twelve distinct and targeted brands: Wilmar®, AmSan®, Barnett®, Sexauer®, Hardware Express®, Copperfield®, Maintenance USA®, U.S. Lock®, SunStar®, LeranSM, Trayco®, and AF LightingSM. We believe many of our customers have developed strong consumer loyalty to these targeted brands. Accordingly, we devote resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks, including with respect to our brand names and our exclusive brand products. However, the actions we have taken may be inadequate to prevent imitation of our brands and concepts by others or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. In addition, others may assert rights in our trademarks. Our exclusive rights to our trademarks are subject to the common law rights of any other person who began using the trademark (or a confusingly similar mark) prior to the date of federal registration. Future actions by third parties may diminish the strength of our trademarks or limit our ability to use our trademarks and, accordingly, undermine our competitive position. We may not be able to facilitate our growth strategy by identifying or completing transactions with attractive acquisition candidates, which could impede our revenues and profitability. Our acquisitions have contributed significantly to our growth. An important element of our growth strategy is to continue to seek additional businesses to acquire in order to add new customers within our existing markets and to acquire brands in new markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates or complete the acquisition of any identified candidates at favorable prices and upon advantageous terms and conditions. Furthermore, we believe that our industry is currently in a process of consolidation, and competition for attractive acquisition candidates is therefore likely to escalate, thereby limiting the number of acquisition candidates or increasing the overall costs of making acquisitions. In addition, in view of the current disruptions in the credit 18 Table of Contents markets, we may not be able to obtain financing necessary to complete acquisitions on attractive terms or at all. Difficulties we may face in identifying or completing acquisitions could impede our revenue growth and profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully complete the integration of future acquisitions or manage other consequences of our acquisitions, which could impede our ability to remain competitive and, ultimately, our revenues and profitability. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired personnel and other corporate cultures into our business, difficulties associated with information technology conversions, the potential loss of key employees, customers or suppliers, the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies, the difficulties in achieving target synergies and the diversion of management attention and resources from existing operations. We may not be able to fully integrate the operations of future acquired businesses with our own in an efficient and cost-effective manner or without significant disruption to our existing operations. We may also be required to incur additional debt in order to consummate acquisitions in the future. Such debt may be substantial and may limit our flexibility in using our cash flow from operations. Our failure to integrate future acquired businesses effectively or to manage other consequences of our acquisitions, including increased indebtedness, could impede our ability to remain competitive and, ultimately, our revenues and profitability. Disruption in our information technology could significantly lower our revenues and profitability. Our operations are dependent upon our information technology that encompass all of our major business functions. We rely upon our information technology to manage and replenish inventory, to fill and ship customer orders on a timely basis and to coordinate our sales and marketing activities across all of our brands. We believe that our information technology plays a key role in our ability to achieve operating and financial efficiencies. Any substantial disruption of our information technology for any prolonged time period could result in delays in receiving inventory and supplies or filling customer orders and, accordingly, could significantly lower our revenues and profitability. Disruption in our NDCs could significantly lower our revenues and profitability. We currently maintain two NDCs, which are essential to the efficient operation of our national distribution network. Any serious disruption to these distribution centers due to fire, earthquake, act of terrorism or any other cause could damage a significant portion of our inventory and could materially impair our ability to distribute our products to our customers. In addition, we could incur significantly higher costs and longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace these centers. As a result, any such disruption could significantly lower our revenues and profitability. We may be unable to retain senior executives and attract and retain other qualified employees which might hinder our growth and could impede our ability to run our business and potentially reduce our revenues and profitability. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified managerial, sales and marketing personnel. We face significant competition for these types of personnel in our industry. We may be unsuccessful in attracting and retaining the personnel we require to conduct and expand our operations successfully and, in such an event, our revenues and profitability could decline. In addition, key personnel may leave us and compete against us. Our success also depends, to a significant extent, on the continued service of our senior management team. The loss of any member of our senior management team or other qualified employees could impair our ability to execute our 19 Table of Contents business plan and growth strategy, cause us to lose customers and reduce our net sales, or lead to employee morale problems and/or the loss of key employees. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inadequate internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness The volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets may impair our access to sufficient capital. Over the past 18 months, the United States credit markets have experienced unprecedented contraction. As a result of the tightening credit markets, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. While we intend to finance our operational cash flow, capital expenditures, debt service obligations and growth projects with existing cash and cash flow from operations, we may require accessing our credit facility. However, due to the existing uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, access to our credit facility may not be available. For example, one of the financial institutions that support our revolving credit facility failed. Though we were able to find a replacement, such failures could negatively impact our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. In addition, if the current pressures on credit continue or worsen, we may not be able to refinance our outstanding debt when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Decreased access to the credit markets and other financing sources could also restrict our ability to make acquisitions and grow our business. Furthermore, if our operating results, cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or if interest rates increase significantly, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt and other obligations. If we are unable to service our debt, we could be forced to reduce or delay planned capital expenditures, sell assets, restructure or refinance our debt or seek additional equity capital, and we may be unable to take any of the actions on satisfactory terms or in a timely manner. Further, any of these actions may not be sufficient to allow us to service our debt obligations or may have an adverse impact on our business. Our existing debt agreements limit our ability to take certain of these actions. Our failure to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay our debts, to refinance our indebtedness or to successfully undertake any of these other actions could have a material adverse effect on us. Our indebtedness may limit our cash flow available to invest in the ongoing needs of our business, which could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. As of December 25, 2009, our total indebtedness was $315.2 million, of which $9.5 million was outstanding in the form of letters of credit. As of December 25, 2009, we had $163.8 million of senior indebtedness outstanding and $24.3 million in additional revolving loan availability under our $100.0 million revolving loan facility. Our effective borrowing capacity is reduced by the limitation under the bank credit facility's ratio of net total indebtedness to adjusted consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"), as defined by the credit facility. Also as of December 25, 2009, we had $100.7 million of total cash on hand and permitted investments (including $25.0 million to be netted against debt for purposes of covenant compliance). 20 Table of Contents Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: •our debt could limit our ability to obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; •a significant portion of our cash flow from operations must be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available to us for our operations; •some of our debt is, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest, which may result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates; •our debt could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or our industry; •our debt may potentially place us at a competitive disadvantage to the extent we are more highly leveraged than some of our competitors; •our debt could make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our credit facility, exposing us to the risk of default on our secured debt, which could result in a foreclosure on our assets, and in turn negatively affect our ability to operate as a going concern; •our failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the documents governing our indebtedness could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could harm our business or prospects and could result in our filing for bankruptcy; and •our debt may make us more vulnerable to a further downturn in the economy, our industry or our business. Our level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate sufficient cash to pay when due the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. In addition, we may incur additional debt from time to time to finance strategic acquisitions, investments or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions contained in the documents governing our indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage, including our ability to service our debt, would increase. We cannot be certain that our earnings will be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. Our ability to incur additional debt will be limited by the terms and conditions of our credit facility. On June 23, 2006 we completed a series of refinancing transactions consisting of (1) an offering of $200.0 million of 81/8% senior subordinated notes due 2014 and (2) entered into a $330.0 million bank credit facility. This bank credit facility consists of a $100.0 million 7-year term loan, a $130.0 million 7-year delayed draw term loan and a $100.0 million 6-year revolving credit facility of which a portion not exceeding $40.0 million is available in the form of letters of credit. In July 2006, we utilized, within the terms of our credit agreement, the incremental $130.0 million term loan to fund the AmSan acquisition. In addition, the credit facility provides for an additional incremental term loan and revolver borrowings, limited by certain restrictions, in the aggregate principal amount of up to $100.0 million and $50.0 million, respectively. Each incremental term loan must be in a minimum principal amount of $25.0 million. Despite our level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks described above. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture governing our 81/8% senior subordinated notes due 2014 and the credit agreement governing our credit facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these 21 Table of Contents restrictions could be substantial. Specifically, the indenture permits us to incur all the indebtedness provided for in our new revolving loan facility. Furthermore, these restrictions do not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness, as defined in the applicable agreement. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described above would increase. The terms of our credit facility and the indenture governing the 81/8% senior subordinated notes may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take certain actions. Our credit facility and the indenture governing the 81/8% senior subordinated notes contain, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to, among other things: •incur additional debt, •pay dividends and make other restricted payments, •create liens, •make investments, including business acquisitions, •engage in sales of assets and subsidiary stock, •enter into sale and leaseback transactions, •enter into transactions with affiliates, •transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions, and •make capital expenditures. The credit facility also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. A failure by us to comply with the covenants or financial ratios contained in the credit facility could result in an event of default under the facility which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition. In the event of any default under our credit facility, the lenders under our credit facility are not required to lend any additional amounts to us and could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable, require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these borrowings or prevent us from making debt service payments on the 81/8% senior subordinated notes, any of which could result in an event of default under the 81/8% senior subordinated notes. If the indebtedness under our credit facility or the 81/8% senior subordinated notes were to be accelerated, there can be no assurance that our assets would be sufficient to repay such indebtedness in full. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled payments on our debt obligations will depend on our future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive, regulatory, legislative and business factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our indebtedness under the credit facility bears interest at a variable rate. Historically, we have funded our debt service obligations and other capital requirements through internally generated cash flow and funds borrowed under our credit agreement. We expect our cash flow from operations and the loan availability under our credit agreement to be our primary source of funds in the future. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to satisfy our debt 22 Table of Contents obligations, including payments on the 81/8% senior subordinated notes, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations in respect of the 81/8% senior subordinated notes. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 