D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We face significant competition in our markets, which could affect current and potential customers, revenues and profitability We face significant competition in our markets. In particular, we expect competition among providers of mobile telecommunications services, including new entrants (such as mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, which are providers of mobile telecommunications services that do not own their own allocation of radio frequency spectrum), to continue to drive prices lower for services and handsets (which we subsidize in some markets). In addition, number portability requirements, which enable customers to switch their providers of mobile telecommunications services without changing their mobile phone numbers, have been introduced in some of the markets in which we operate, including our largest market, Israel, and may be introduced in other markets in the future. These developments could lead to greater movement of customers among providers of mobile telecommunications services, known as churn, which could increase our marketing, distribution and administrative costs, slow growth in the number of our customers and reduce our revenues. Our market position will also depend on effective marketing initiatives and our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services, pricing strategies by competitors and changes in consumer preferences and economic, political and social conditions in the countries in which we operate. Any failure by us to compete - 7 - Table of Contents effectively, including in terms of pricing of services, anticipating and developing new technologies and services, acquisition of new customers and retention of existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Israel operations account for a high percentage of our total turnover, operating profits and customers Following the spin-off of Hutchison Telecommunications Hong Kong Holdings Limited, or HTHKH, in May 2009, our Israel operations account for a high percentage of our turnover, operating profits and customers. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our Israel operations represented, excluding Hong Kong and Macau operations, approximately 88.4% of our total turnover and 90.5% of our total operating profit. Our Israel operations accounted for approximately 31.0% of our total customers, excluding Hong Kong and Macau operations, as at December 31, 2008. Changes in demand, economic and political developments, regulatory changes and operational difficulties in the Israel market will have a significantly greater effect on our results than when our results included HTHKH, which held our Hong Kong and Macau operations. If our turnover and operating profits from the Israel market declines or we are not able to generate a comparable amount of turnover and operating profits from our other market areas, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, fluctuations in the exchange rate between New Israeli Shekels and Hong Kong dollars may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition, after translation into Hong Kong dollars, that is disproportionate to the actual change in operating performance of our Israel operations. Our Indonesia, Vietnam, Sri Lanka and Thailand operations have a significantly greater effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations Our Indonesia, Vietnam, Sri Lanka and Thailand operations have a significantly greater effect, following the spin-off of HTHKH in May 2009, on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Each of our Indonesia, Vietnam, Sri Lanka and Thailand operations has incurred operating losses in 2007 or 2008. For the year ended December 31, 2008, operating loss from our Indonesia, Vietnam and Sri Lanka operations was HK$1,342 million (US$173.2 million), HK$520 million (US$67.1 million) and HK$7 million (US$0.9 million), respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2007, operating loss from our Indonesia, Vietnam and Thailand operations was HK$626 million, HK$279 million and HK$4,462 million (after impairment charge), respectively. There can be no assurance that the operating results from these markets will improve, which will have a greater effect on our results of operations than when our results included HTHKH. We may have financial exposure as a result of warranty, indemnity or other obligations assumed in connection with the sale of CGP Investments (Holdings) Limited, or CGP Investments Holdings, and may also be subject to Indian taxes payable in relation to this sale We may be subject to claims or have to make payments as a result of warranty, indemnity or other obligations assumed in connection with the sale of interests relating to CGP Investments Holdings to a subsidiary of Vodafone Group Plc, or Vodafone, in May 2007. In addition, the Indian tax authorities may consider the gain arising from this sale to be taxable in India. The Indian tax authorities have initiated an investigation into Vodafone’s obligations to withhold tax from the acquisition proceeds. Vodafone disputed the jurisdiction of the Indian tax authorities in this matter. The Indian Supreme Court ruled, in proceedings initiated by Vodafone, that the question of jurisdiction should be determined by the Indian tax authorities in the first instance, and in the event the authorities make a determination against Vodafone, it may appeal to the Indian High Court. We have received legal advice and believe that the sale is not taxable in India, and therefore, no Indian tax is payable by us. Accordingly, we have not provided for any claims or Indian tax liabilities in connection with the sale. However, there can be no assurance what the final outcome will be. If we eventually make any such payments or suffer any Indian tax on this sale, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. - 8 - Table of Contents We may not realize the benefits we expect from our capital expenditures, which may materially and adversely impact our business We have made significant capital expenditures on our network infrastructure and information technology systems to provide the services we offer. Our capital expenditures in 2008 were HK$5,148 million (US$664.3 million), compared to HK$5,436 million in 2007, comprised mainly of expenditures on telecommunications and network equipment. In order to continue to develop our business and offer new services, we intend to continue to invest in networks in new service areas as well as new technologies, which we expect will result in substantial capital expenditures. Our estimated capital expenditure for 2009, excluding Hong Kong and Macau operations, is approximately HK$7 billion (US$0.9 billion), the majority of which we expect to be used for network build-out in our operations in Indonesia and Vietnam. We may not be successful in marketing these new services to consumers, thus impairing the return from our expenditures. We cannot assure you that services enabled by new technologies we implement will generate an acceptable rate of return. In addition, we face the risk of unforeseen complications in the deployment of new service areas and new technologies, and we cannot assure you that our estimate of the necessary capital expenditures will not be exceeded. If we do not realize the anticipated benefits of our capital expenditures, or if our required expenditures exceed our estimates, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We require substantial amounts of capital for our business operations and we currently rely on a credit facility provided by a subsidiary of Hutchison Whampoa Limited, or Hutchison Whampoa, to provide us with financing We require substantial amounts of capital to build, maintain and operate our telecommunications networks. We also require substantial amounts of capital to market and distribute our services and products, to develop new services and products, to develop and implement new mobile telecommunications technologies and, potentially, to acquire and invest in other telecommunications companies and spectrum rights. We anticipate that our capital expenditures in 2009, excluding Hong Kong and Macau operations, will be approximately HK$7 billion (US$0.9 billion), the majority of which we expect to be used for network build-out in our operations in Indonesia and Vietnam. To the extent our expenditures exceed our cash resources, we will be required to seek additional debt or equity financing. We currently rely on a credit facility provided by a subsidiary of Hutchison Whampoa to provide us with financing. Pursuant to a facility agreement dated November 25, 2008 and amended and restated on April 17, 2009, or the Amended and Restated Facility Agreement, a subsidiary of Hutchison Whampoa agreed to make available to us a senior secured term loan/revolving credit facility of a maximum aggregate amount of US$1,790 million (approximately HK$13,872.5 million), subject to the terms of the Amended and Restated Facility Agreement. In May 2009, an aggregate amount of US$290 million was advanced to our company. We refer you to “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Related Party Transactions – Related Party Transactions with the Hutchison Whampoa group – Credit Facility” for more information. Although we are not obliged to draw additional funds from this facility and may choose not to utilize it if financing on better terms can be obtained from other sources, other sources of debt or equity financing may not be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, and this facility may be our only source of financing. Our ability to obtain financing from other sources will depend on a number of factors, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by mobile telecommunications companies; and • economic, political and other conditions affecting the markets where we operate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we are able to obtain additional financing, there can be no assurance that any proceeds we receive from additional debt or equity financing will satisfy our capital needs. We may require additional capital to address unanticipated expenses. The unavailability of adequate financing on commercially acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. - 9 - Table of Contents Our major shareholder may take actions that are not in, or may conflict with, our other shareholders’ best interests. In addition, if our major shareholder’s equity interest falls below certain specified thresholds, certain adverse events may occur Our largest shareholder is Hutchison Whampoa, which as at May 8, 2009 held approximately 60.4% of our shares through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, which gives it the ability to control actions that require majority shareholders’ approval. In addition, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited, or Cheung Kong Holdings, which as at the same date held 49.97% of Hutchison Whampoa through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, held 1.1% of our shares through its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Also, as at the same date, Mr. Li Ka-shing, Chairman of Hutchison Whampoa, held 5.5% of our shares through companies wholly-owned by him. Cheung Kong Holdings has, pursuant to Rule 13d-4 under the Exchange Act, expressly disclaimed beneficial ownership of those of our shares held by Hutchison Whampoa. If the interests of our major shareholder conflict with the interests of our other shareholders, or if our major shareholder chooses to cause our business to pursue strategic objectives that conflict with the interests of our other shareholders, those other shareholders could be disadvantaged by the actions that Hutchison Whampoa chooses to pursue. Hutchison Whampoa is not obligated to exercise its rights as a shareholder in our best interests or in the best interests of our minority shareholders. Furthermore, certain adverse events may occur if Hutchison Whampoa’s equity interest in our company falls below specified thresholds, which is an event that would be beyond our control. For example, certain of our financing and license agreements may be terminated if Hutchison Whampoa’s equity interest falls below specified levels. We cannot assure you that alternative arrangements will be available on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If Hutchison Whampoa’s equity interest were to fall below levels specified in certain of our financing and licensing agreements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Any decline in the earnings of our operating companies or restrictions on our ability to convert or transfer currencies from the countries in which our operating companies are located could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations We currently conduct all our operations through our operating companies. Our sources of cash flows include interest income, dividends paid and shareholder loans repaid to us by our operating companies. The ability of our operating companies to generate earnings is important to our business. If earnings from our operating companies were to decline or if our operating companies were unable to repay the interest and principal amounts on their shareholder loans, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, disruptions to international foreign exchange markets may restrict our ability to transfer or to convert currencies from the countries in which our operating companies are located into Hong Kong dollars and other currencies. Furthermore, the governments of certain countries in which we operate have instituted, and other countries may in the future institute, restrictive exchange rate policies that limit or restrict our ability to convert currencies into their respective currencies or to convert their respective currencies into other currencies or to transfer other currencies out of their jurisdictions. These restrictions on currency conversion and transfer are beyond our control and we cannot assure you that these restrictions would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current liabilities exceed, and will continue to exceed, our current assets, which may constrain our operational flexibility Our current liabilities exceed, and will continue to exceed, our current assets. We had net current liabilities of HK$17,268 million and HK$7,675 million (US$990.3 million) as of December 31, 2006 and 2008, respectively, and net current assets of HK$28,638 million as of December 31, 2007. A high level of net current liabilities could constrain our operational flexibility as well as adversely affect our ability to expand our business. - 10 - Table of Contents We do not own all of the intellectual property rights necessary to operate our business, and if any of these intellectual property rights become unavailable to us, we could face disruptions in our operations We do not own all of the intellectual property rights in the brand names that we use to market our services. We have arrangements with the Hutchison Whampoa group pursuant to which we have rights to use “3,” “Hutch” and “Hutchison Telecom” and other trademarks that include the word “Hutchison” or derivations thereof royalty-free until the relevant change of control provisions as agreed between the relevant members of our group and the Hutchison Whampoa group are triggered. We use the “3” brand in Indonesia, and the “Hutch” brand in Thailand and Sri Lanka. We also have been granted licenses to use certain trademarks from non-Hutchison Whampoa entities, notably the “orange™” brand, which we license from a subsidiary of Orange SA. We use the “orange™” brand for our mobile telecommunications operations in Israel. In addition, the “Vietnamobile” trademark, under which our Vietnam operations have launched its GSM services in April 2009, is owned by Hanoi Telecommunications Joint Stock Company, or Hanoi Telecom, our partner in Vietnam. Hutchison Whampoa has the right to terminate its brand license agreements with our operating companies if its indirect interest in those licensee operating companies falls below specified thresholds. If these ownership thresholds are breached, which is an event that would be beyond our control, or if we breach the terms of our licenses with non-Hutchison Whampoa entities, we may have to renegotiate the terms of these trademark arrangements and/or pay royalties for the use of the relevant trademarks and domain names, or could lose the use of such trademarks and domain names altogether. We cannot assure you that the fees and terms of use will be commercially acceptable to us if we have to renegotiate these arrangements or if we have to enter into alternate arrangements with third parties. If any of the brands under which we operate become unavailable to us, we could face a loss of brand recognition in the markets in which we operate, as well as disruptions in our operations while new, alternate licensing arrangements are secured. As a consequence, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected due to the importance of the trademarks and domain names to the branding of our business operations. We may face risks associated with acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures We may be presented with opportunities in telecommunications markets that we believe can create long-term value for our shareholders. Suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates may or may not arise. If such opportunities arise, we may incur indebtedness to pay for any acquisition or investment. Such acquisitions and investments involve other risks, such as: • the diversion of our management’s attention and other resources from other business concerns; • expenses, delays and difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company; • not realizing the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment; • adversely affecting our financial condition due to the timing of the acquisition or investment; and • potentially acquiring undisclosed or underestimated liabilities. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may acquire investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. A change in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar may have an adverse impact on returns on any of these non-U.S. dollar denominated investments. Although we may choose to hedge our foreign currency risk, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Investments in foreign countries also subject us to risks of multiple and conflicting laws and regulations and political and economic instability abroad, which could adversely affect our return on these investments. - 11 - Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will make any dividend payments in the future We cannot assure you that we will make any dividend payments in the future. We paid a special cash dividend on December 2, 2008, which was discretionary, and our board of directors did not recommend a final dividend for the year ended December 31, 2008. We refer you to “Item 8. Financial Information – A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information – Dividend Distributions” and “Item 10. Additional Information – Memorandum and Articles of Association – Dividends” for more information. We also completed the payment of an interim dividend which was satisfied by way of a distribution in specie of the entire share capital of HTHKH on May 7, 2009, which was discretionary. We refer you to “Item 4. Information on the Company – C. History and Development of the Company – The Spin-off” for more information. Any asset impairment could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations We have non-current assets such as property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets, goodwill and investments in associates (which includes jointly-controlled entities), and we are required to review these assets for impairment at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use. If the value of an asset as reflected in our balance sheet is higher than its recoverable amount, we must recognize an asset impairment charge in our income statement. We have recognized impairment charges in the past and cannot assure you that we will not recognize impairment charges in future years, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The recoverable amount of an asset depends on the prevailing market conditions at the time of the review, the nature of the asset, its fair value and estimated future cash flows that are expected to be derived from the asset. The discount rate used in this review reflects our current assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. As at December 31, 2008, our non-current assets and assets held for sale that are subject to asset impairment review amounted to approximately HK$35.3 billion (US$4.6 billion), representing 80.6% of our total assets. If we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional assets on our books that would be subject to impairment review. Any reduction in the recoverable amount of an asset below its carrying value, whether due to a weak economic environment, challenging market conditions, asset or portfolio sale decisions by management or some other condition or occurrence, could be charged to the income statement and could thus materially and adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders’ equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. We may be required to change our accounting treatment of certain sale and leaseback transactions in Indonesia As part of its periodic review of our filings, the staff of the Division of Corporation Finance of the SEC sent us comments in August 2008 regarding our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2007. One comment that remains unresolved relates to the accounting treatment of sale and leaseback transactions for base station tower sites entered into by our Indonesia subsidiary, PT. Hutchison CP Telecommunications, or HCPT, and PT. Profesional Telekomunikasi Indonesia, or Protelindo, in 2008. These transactions were disclosed as a subsequent event in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2007, and details of the transactions and the applicable accounting treatment are described in note 10(b) to our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008. We refer you to “Item 4. Information on the Company – A. Business Overview – Operating companies review – Indonesia – Spectrum and mobile communication networks” for more information about these transactions. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the sale of two tranches comprising 2,248 sites was completed and we recognized a gain of US$182.2 million (HK$1,421 million) and operating lease expenses of HK$128 million (US$16.5 million). Although we believe the accounting treatment adopted is appropriate and are continuing to engage with and provide further requested information to the SEC, we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC’s review and there is a risk that an adjustment to our financial statements may be required in order to account for the sale and leaseback transactions as a finance lease. If we are required to account for the sale and leaseback transactions as a finance lease, we would not recognize a gain from the sale of the base station tower sites or an operating lease expense. Instead, we would be required to recognize the leased assets and the - 12 - Table of Contents related finance lease obligations on our balance sheet and to recognize depreciation expense on the leased assets and an interest element of the lease payments as interest expense. Any gain or loss on a sale and finance leaseback transaction would be deferred and amortized over the term of the lease. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes and U.S. holders of our shares may be subject to special rules regarding taxation because of our PFIC status A non-U.S. corporation is classified as a PFIC if: (i) 75 percent or more of its gross income (including its pro rata share of gross income of any corporation of which it is considered to own 25 percent or more of the shares by value) in a taxable year is passive income, or (ii) 50 percent or more of its assets by value (including its pro rata interest in the assets of any company of which it is considered to own 25 percent or more of the shares by value) produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. We had large amounts of cash and other passive assets until December 2008 as a result of our disposition in 2007 of CGP Investments Holdings to Vodafone. However, based on our audited financial statements and relevant market and shareholder data, we do not believe we were a PFIC for 2008. The determination of PFIC status is made on an annual basis, and will depend on, among other factors, how we use the cash balance, when such use of the cash balance occurs, and, if necessary, the availability of a special relief provision under Section 1298(b)(3) of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, for companies that temporarily hold substantial passive assets as a result of the disposition of an active trade or business, also known as the change of business exception. To qualify for the change of business exception, we would need to satisfy the following conditions: (i) we have never previously been a PFIC; (ii) “substantially all” of the passive income for the year is attributable to proceeds from the disposition of one or more “active trades or businesses,” as these terms are used and interpreted under the Code; and (iii) we are not a PFIC for either of the next two taxable years. We have received a ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, confirming that our disposition of CGP Investments Holdings to Vodafone qualifies as the disposition of one or more “active trade or businesses” within the meaning of the change of business exception. Notwithstanding our receipt of the ruling letter, in order to qualify for the change of business exception in 2008, we would need to satisfy the three conditions listed above. Based on current expectations regarding the value and nature of its assets, the sources and nature of its income (taking into account the spin-off of HTHKH), and relevant market and shareholder data, we do not anticipate becoming a PFIC for 2009 or 2010. Nonetheless, if we are found to be a PFIC for 2009 or 2010, then we would be retroactively ineligible for the change of business exception, but may not know and will not be able to inform you of such determination until 2010 or 2011. We cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for 2009 or any subsequent taxable year. If we are a PFIC, U.S. shareholders will be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences with respect to, among others, (i) the tax rates for dividends, (ii) “excess distributions” and (iii) gains realized on the sale or other disposition of shares. The consequences of our being a PFIC are described further in “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” Risks Relating to Markets Where We Operate Any exchange rate fluctuations in the currencies in which we conduct operations, relative to the Hong Kong dollar, and any foreign exchange restrictions could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations We present our financial statements in Hong Kong dollars. Any exchange rate fluctuations in the currencies of the countries in which we conduct our operations, relative to the Hong Kong dollar, may result in exchange losses or gains and increases or reductions in our debt after translation into Hong Kong dollars, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In 2008, we recorded a net exchange loss of HK$146 million (US$18.8 million) compared to a net exchange gain of HK$84 million in 2007. - 13 - Table of Contents In the past, the central banks of countries in which our operating companies are located have imposed foreign exchange restrictions and we cannot assure you that foreign exchange restrictions will not be imposed on our operating companies. If foreign exchange restrictions are imposed and we are unable to enter into foreign exchange swap contracts which can partially or completely mitigate the effects of these foreign exchange restrictions on commercially acceptable terms, or at all, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Foreign ownership restrictions may limit our ability to cause operating companies to act in our shareholders’ best interests or to implement our business strategies, and changes in regulations or policies, or their application or interpretation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations Government policy and/or regulations in some countries in which we currently operate (i.e., Israel, Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam) limit the nature and extent of our investments in those countries. As a result, our ownership interests in our operating companies may not in every instance provide us with the ability to control all actions that require shareholder approval and our ability to manage these operating companies may be hindered. Although we may participate in the management of such operating companies, we may not have the ability to prevent them from engaging in activities or pursuing strategic objectives that may conflict with our overall strategic objectives or the best interests of our shareholders. In addition, the regulators in countries where we operate can introduce new regulations on foreign ownership or other aspects of our business (for example, regulations applicable to the telecommunications sector), amend existing regulations, or change the application or interpretation of existing regulations, all of which are beyond our control. The occurrence of any or all of the foregoing could require us to remove or amend our existing arrangements with local partners and reduce our voting and/or economic interests in the relevant operating companies, which may affect our ability to implement our business strategy in the affected countries. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that all of our operating companies are compliant with applicable foreign ownership restrictions, as compliance may be affected by whether our local partners or other shareholders in our operating companies are considered to be domestic or foreign persons, which will be determined in accordance with the applicable rules, regulations or license conditions in the relevant countries. If any or all of our operating companies are not in compliance with applicable foreign ownership restrictions, monetary and criminal penalties could be imposed, and relevant licenses or agreements could be cancelled. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Partner Communications Company Ltd., or Partner, is exposed to, and currently engaged in, a variety of legal proceedings, including class action lawsuits Due to the legal environment of Israel and the scope and magnitude of Partner’s operations, Partner is subject to the risk of a large number of lawsuits, including class action suits by consumers which may be costly to defend and which may result in significant judgments against it. The Israeli Class Actions Law, 2006 includes provisions that expand the causes of action for which a class of litigants may bring suit, including with regard to any damages allegedly incurred prior to the effective date of this law. This law has reduced the requirements for certification of a class action lawsuit and the qualifications required to be a lead plaintiff in a class action lawsuit. This law has increased the number of requests for approval of class actions and the number of class action suits against Partner, and may increase Partner’s legal exposure and legal costs in defending against such suits, which as a result may materially and adversely affect our financial results. Currently, Partner is engaged in a number of purported class action suits as a defendant, some of which are for substantial amounts. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Israel.” At this stage, and until the claims are recognized as class actions, we and Partner are unable to evaluate the probability of success of the claims, and therefore no provision has been made. In addition, a class was recently certified in proceedings asserting liability against Partner (and another Israeli provider of cellular telecommunications services) for actions taken by a third-party content provider, who is also a defendant in this claim. There can be no assurance that this and other claims involving Partner will not materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results. - 14 - Table of Contents Volatility in social, political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations Some of our operating companies and a portion of our total assets are located in countries, including Israel, Sri Lanka and Thailand, which have experienced social, political and economic volatility. With respect to our Israel operations, ongoing conflict and violence between Israel and its Arab neighbors and Palestinians may have a material adverse effect on the Israeli economy, in general, and on our business, financial condition or results of operations. With respect to our Sri Lanka operations, it is expected that the civil war in Sri Lanka will come to an end soon, but there continues to be a risk of terrorist attacks in the area. In Thailand, ongoing political instability has led to continued civil unrest. Developments in these and other countries in which we currently operate, or may operate in the future, including uncertainties arising from economic liberalization and deregulation policies, future economic crises, outbreaks of hostility and political instability, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Telecommunications Industry Generally The telecommunications industry is a highly regulated industry in which regulators’ decisions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations The telecommunications industry is a highly regulated industry. In each of the countries in which we operate, we are subject to government regulation, including regulation regarding licenses, competition, frequency spectrum allocation and costs and arrangements pertaining to interconnection and leased lines. We are also subject to regulations on our tariff structures in some jurisdictions where we operate and we cannot predict with accuracy or assure you on the timing, likelihood or likely magnitude of any future tariff adjustments generally or the extent of any potential impact such tariff adjustments would have on our business. We cannot assure you that our business, financial condition and the results of our operations will not be materially and adversely affected by any government-mandated regulatory reform or tariff adjustments in the future. For example, the Ministry of Communications of Israel is evaluating roaming charges and since 2006, has requested Partner to provide information relating to its roaming services. In addition, in August 2008, the government instructed the Ministry of Communications of Israel and other ministries to negotiate a reduction of inbound and outbound roaming tariffs with the European Union and its members or other countries frequently visited by Israelis and to consider other tools for reducing roaming charges. As a result, new regulations may be introduced that would limit the fees Israeli mobile phone companies can charge for calls made by foreign network operators’ customers while in Israel using Partner’s network, as well as for calls made by Partner’s customers using their handsets abroad. Because Partner considers roaming charges to be a significant source of revenue, such regulatory changes could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, regulators in Israel have instituted a number of other reforms in recent years and are considering a variety of other actions that could materially and adversely affect our revenues. See “Item 4. Business Overview—Regulation—Israel.” In some cases, regulators may also be our competitors. Whether regulators will act to ensure a level playing field between government-owned and private operators is beyond our control and their decisions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Required licenses, approvals and permits may be difficult to obtain in the countries where we operate telecommunications networks, and once obtained, may be amended or revoked or may not be renewed Our operation of telecommunications networks and the provision of related services generally requires various licenses, approvals and permits and are regulated to varying degrees by national, state, regional or local governmental and/or regulatory authorities. Required licenses and permits may be difficult to obtain and once obtained, may be amended or revoked, or may be subject to review, interpretation, modification or termination by the relevant authorities. We cannot assure you that the relevant authorities will not take actions that could materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that required licenses and permits will be renewed or that any renewal on new terms will be commercially acceptable to us. If we fail to - 15 - Table of Contents renew any of our licenses and permits, we may lose the ability to continue to operate the affected business, and the realizable value of our relevant network infrastructure and related assets may be materially and adversely affected. See “Item 4. Business Overview—Regulation.” Operating licenses specify the services we can offer and the radio frequency spectrum we can utilize for mobile operations. Some of our operating licenses may require us to meet specified network build-out requirements and schedules, and satisfy various obligations such as minimum specified quality, service, coverage criteria and capital investment. Failure to comply with these obligations could result in the imposition of fines or the revocation or forfeiture of the license for that area. Furthermore, the need to meet scheduled deadlines may cause us to expend more resources than otherwise budgeted for a particular network build-out, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The deployment of our networks requires various approvals or permits from national, state, regional or local governmental and/or regulatory authorities, particularly in relation to establishing cell sites. These approvals and permits include building, construction and environmental permits, antenna and mast deployment approvals and various other planning permissions. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in obtaining some of these approvals and permits. For example, our Israel business, like its competitors, has experienced difficulties in obtaining some consents and permits, especially those from local building authorities. As at December 31, 2008, less than 10% of our antenna sites in Israel were operating without local building permits or applicable exemptions. Failure to obtain required permits for cell sites could have a material adverse effect on the extent, quality and capacity of our network coverage and on our ability to continue to market our products and services effectively. Operating network sites without building or other required permits may also result in criminal or civil liability to Partner or its officers and directors. Our inability to resolve these issues in a timely manner could also prevent us from achieving or maintaining the network coverage and quality requirements contained in our license. In Indonesia, we have also experienced delays in obtaining necessary local permits and licenses and this has slowed our rollout and expansion of services in that market. Continued or extended delays may have a material adverse effect on our growth and results of operations for our Indonesia operations. We are dependent on interconnection with our competitors’ networks and associated infrastructure as well as roaming arrangements with other telecommunications operators Our ability to provide commercially viable mobile telecommunications services depends, in part, upon our interconnection arrangements with other telecommunications operators. In particular, we are dependent on interconnection with our competitors’ mobile networks and associated infrastructure for the successful operation of our business. The framework by which interconnection charges are made in certain jurisdictions where we operate are currently being reviewed by the relevant government authorities. Any change to the framework or the basis upon which interconnection charges are made is likely to require the renegotiation of our interconnection agreements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our interconnection agreements on terms that are commercially acceptable to us or that any material increase in the interconnection expenses would not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operating companies are also dependent upon roaming agreements with other telecommunications operators as a source of revenues when the other telecommunications operators’ customers roam on our networks. If these roaming agreements were to terminate, or if the other telecommunications operators were to deploy incompatible technologies, our roaming revenues and profits may be materially reduced, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Concerns about health risks relating to the use of mobile handsets may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations Media and other reports have linked radio frequency emissions from mobile handsets to various health risks, including cancer, and to interference with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Concerns about health risks may discourage the use of mobile handsets in the countries in which we conduct business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various government authorities in the markets in which we operate could also increase regulation of mobile handsets and base stations as a result of these concerns. In addition, lawsuits have been filed in the - 16 - Table of Contents United States against certain participants in the telecommunications industry alleging various adverse health consequences as a result of mobile handset usage, and we may be subject to similar litigation in the future. Research and studies are ongoing, and we cannot assure you that further research and studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency emissions and health concerns. Any negative findings in these studies could materially and adversely affect the use of mobile handsets and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, in Israel, a recent municipal court ruling adopted the position that there is no need to prove that the plaintiff suffered damages as a result of the erection of a cellular network site, and that under certain circumstances, it would be sufficient to prove that damages were possible and then the burden of proof would shift to the defendant. Although Partner was not a party to this proceeding, this ruling could negatively affect Partner’s ability to defend against similar health-related litigation in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our allocated spectrum may be insufficient for the expansion of our mobile telecommunications business The operation of our mobile telecommunications networks is limited by the amount of spectrum allocated to us in the countries where we operate. Allocation of spectrum is determined by the relevant governmental authorities in those countries. In determining spectrum allocation, governmental authorities generally seek to ensure choice of services for consumers, efficient use of spectrum and continuity of customer service while maintaining technology neutrality and providing a stable investment environment. Although we believe that our current spectrum allocation is sufficient for expected customer growth going forward, our future profitability may be materially and adversely affected if our allocated spectrum proves insufficient in the future for the expansion of our mobile telecommunications business, particularly for Indonesia and Vietnam, two of the markets in which we expect substantial customer growth. Risks Relating to Our ADSs and Ordinary Shares Our board of directors may suspend voting rights attaching to some shares as necessary to avoid any of our subsidiaries or affiliates being in breach or default, which may affect your voting rights Our articles of association provide that if any person directly or indirectly has or acquires an interest in a number of our shares that would or may, in the opinion of our directors, require a review or approval under, or which would or may result in any of our subsidiaries or affiliates (being any entity in which we directly or indirectly hold 5% or more of the issued share capital) being in breach or in default of, any applicable law, regulation or license, permit, consent or privilege held or enjoyed by any such subsidiary or affiliate, or any requirement of any governmental or regulatory authority, our directors have the discretion to suspend the shareholder’s right to exercise the voting rights attaching to the affected shares in which the shareholder has an interest in respect of any resolution at any general meeting of our company. Our directors also have the ability to restrict the director(s) appointed by or at the direction of that shareholder, if any, to our board of directors from voting on any resolution or matter that concerns the activities of any affected entity or appointment of a director or the managing director of any affected entity. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—Rights, Preferences, Restrictions Attaching to Shares and Changing the Rights of Shareholders—Voting Rights.” As a result of the foregoing, your voting rights may be affected. It may be more difficult for you to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, than if we were a corporation incorporated in the United States We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct substantially all of our operations outside of the United States. In addition, substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Moreover, most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors and actions by minority shareholders are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law in the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English - 17 - Table of Contents common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority in a court in the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands law in this area may not be as established and may differ from provisions under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may face different considerations in protecting their interests in actions against the management, directors or our major shareholder than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring or enforce an action against us or against these individuals in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. In particular, the Cayman Islands courts are unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, to impose liabilities against us based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. Our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote the ordinary shares underlying your American Depositary Shares, or ADSs As a holder of our ADSs, you may instruct the depositary of your ADSs to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs but only if we ask the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs you hold. However, you may not know about the meeting far enough in advance to withdraw those ordinary shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote, and there may be nothing you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless we notify the depositary that: • we do not wish to receive a discretionary proxy; • we think there is substantial shareholder opposition to the particular question; or • we think the particular question would have a material adverse impact on our shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company, which could adversely affect your interests. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares represented by ADSs or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to holders of ADSs The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to distribute to you, after deducting its fees and expenses, the cash distributions or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to take any - 18 - Table of Contents other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of your ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 