RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to Our Business Decreases in the Amount of Mortgage Financing Provided by Mexican Government-Sponsored Agencies on which We Depend, or Disbursement Delays, Could Result in a Decrease in Our Sales and Revenues The home building industry in Mexico has been characterized by a significant shortage of mortgage financing. Historically, the limited availability of financing has restricted home building and contributed to the current shortage of affordable entry-level housing. Substantially all financing for affordable entry-level housing in Mexico is provided by government-administrated housing funds such as: · the National Workers’ Housing Fund Institute, or INFONAVIT (Instituto del Fondo Nacional para la Vivienda de los Trabajadores), which is financed primarily through mandatory contributions from the gross wages of private sector workers, and securitization of mortgages in the capital markets; · the Social Security and Services Institute Public Sector Workers’ Housing Fund, or FOVISSSTE (Fondo para la Vivienda y la Seguridad y Servicios Sociales para los Trabajadores del Estado), which is financed primarily through mandatory contributions from the gross wages of public sector workers; and · public mortgage providers such as the Federal Mortgage Society, or SHF (Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal, S.N.C., Institucion de Banca de Desarrollo), which is financed through its own funds as well as funds provided by the World Bank and a trust managed by Banco de Mexico. See “Business—The Mexican Housing Market.” The amount of funding available and the level of mortgage financing from these sources is limited and may vary from year to year. These government-sponsored entities have significant discretion in terms of the allocation and timing of disbursement of mortgage funds. We depend on the availability of mortgage financing provided by these government-sponsored entities for substantially all of our sales of affordable entry-level housing, which sales represented 78.4% of our revenues and 72.4% of our operating income for 2006, and 78.1% of our revenues and 79.8% of our operating income for 2005. Accordingly, our financial results are affected by policies and administrative procedures of INFONAVIT, FOVISSSTE, and SHF, as well as by the Mexican government’s housing policy. The availability of mortgage financing granted by INFONAVIT AND FOVISSSTE has increased significantly during the past five years as compared to historical levels while financing from the SHF has decreased due to a change in policy at SHF in 2005. From 2002 through 2006, the amount of mortgage financing granted in terms of number of homes by these government-sponsored entities increased by 87.3% according to Softec, S.C. (“Softec”). However, future Mexican government housing finance policy may limit or delay the availability of mortgage financing provided by these agencies or otherwise institute changes, including changes in the methods by which these agencies grant mortgages and, in the case of INFONAVIT, the geographic allocation of mortgage financing, that could result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. Disruptions in the operations of government-sponsored lenders, for any reason, may occur and result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. Decreases or delays in the amount of funds available from INFONAVIT, FOVISSSTE, SHF or other sources, or substantially increased competition for these funds, could result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. These funds may not continue to be allocated at their current levels or in regions in which we have or can quickly establish a significant presence. A Slowdown in the Mexican Economy Could Limit the Availability of Private-Sector Financing in Mexico, on which We Depend for Our Sales of Middle-Income Housing, which Could Result in a Decrease in Our Sales and Revenues 12 One of our principal strategies is to expand our operations in the middle-income and residential housing sector while maintaining our margins and without adverse affecting our financial condition. Our expansion into this market depends on private sector lenders, such as commercial banks and Limited Purpose Financial Companies and Multiple Purpose Financial Companies (Sociedades Financieras de Objeto Limitado o de Objetivo Múltiple, or “sofoles” or “Sofomes”), which provide a substantial majority of mortgage financing for the middle-income sector. The availability of private sector mortgage financing in Mexico has been severely constrained in the past as a result of volatile economic conditions in Mexico, the level of liquidity and stability of the Mexican banking system, and the resulting adoption of more stringent lending criteria and bank regulations. From 1995 through 2001, commercial bank mortgage lending was generally unavailable in Mexico. However, during the same period a number of sofoles were formed, serving the mostly middle-income market. Since 2002, private sector lenders have gradually increased their mortgage financing activities as a result of improved economic conditions and increasing consumer demand. However, it is possible that the amount of mortgage financing provided by private sector entities for the middle-income housing market will not increase or be maintained at current levels. We Experience Significant Seasonality in Our Results of Operations The Mexican affordable entry-level housing industry experiences significant seasonality during the year, principally due to the operational and lending cycles of INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE. The programs, budgets, and changes in the authorized policies of these mortgage lenders are approved during the first quarter of the year. Payment by these lenders for home deliveries is slow at the beginning of the year and increases gradually through the second and third quarters with a rapid acceleration in the fourth quarter. We build and deliver affordable entry-level homes based on the seasonality of this cycle because we do not begin construction of these homes until a mortgage provider commits mortgage financing to a qualified home buyer in a particular development. Accordingly, we also tend to recognize significantly higher levels of revenue in the third and fourth quarters and our debt levels tend to be highest in the first and second quarters. We anticipate that our quarterly results of operations and our level of indebtedness will continue to experience variability from quarter to quarter in the future. We May Experience Difficulty in Finding Desirable Land Tracts or Increases in the Price of Land May Increase Our Cost of Sales and Decrease Our Earnings Our continued growth depends in large part on our ability to continue to be able to acquire land and to do so at a reasonable cost. As more developers enter or expand their operations in the Mexican home building industry, land prices could rise significantly and suitable land could become scarce due to increased demand or decreased supply. A resulting rise in land prices may increase our cost of sales and decrease our earnings. We may not be able to continue to acquire suitable land at reasonable prices in the future. Increases in the Price of Raw Materials May Increase Our Cost of Sales and Reduce Our Net Earnings The basic raw materials used in the construction of our homes include concrete, concrete block, steel, bricks, windows, doors, roof tiles and plumbing fixtures. Increases in the price of raw materials, including increases that may occur as a result of shortages, duties, restrictions, or fluctuations in exchange rates, could increase our cost of sales and reduce our net earnings to the extent we are unable to increase our sales prices. It is possible that the prices of our raw materials will increase in the future. Because We Recognize Income From Sales of Homes Under the Percentage-of-Completion Method of Accounting Before Receiving Cash Revenue, Failed Closings Could Result in a Shortfall of Actual Cash Received and Require an Adjustment to Revenue Previously Recorded In accordance with MFRS, and consistent with industry practice in Mexico, we recognize income from the sale of homes based on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, which in Mexico requires us to recognize income as we incur the cost of construction. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the percentage-of-completion method. However, we do not receive the proceeds from these sales until the homes are delivered. As a result, there is a risk that revenue in respect of the income recognized for accounting purposes will not be received due to the failure of a sale to close. Historically, an immaterial amount of our home sales have failed to close. 13 Loss of Services of Our Key Management Personnel Could Result in Disruptions to Our Business Operations Our management and operations are dependent in large part upon the contributions of a small number of key senior management personnel, including Eustaquio Tomás de Nicolás Gutiérrez our chairman, and Gerardo de Nicolás Gutiérrez our chief executive officer. We do not have employment or non-compete agreements with or maintain key-man life insurance in respect of either of these individuals. Because of their knowledge of the industry and our operations and their experience with Homex, we believe that our future results will depend upon their efforts, and the loss of the services of any of these individuals for any reason could result in disruptions to our business operations. Competition from Other Home Builders Could Result in a Decrease in Our Sales and Revenues The home building industry in Mexico is highly competitive. Our principal competitors include public companies like Corporacion GEO, S.A. de C.V., Consorcio ARA, S.A. de C.V., URBI Desarrollos Urbanos, S.A. de C.V. and SARE, S.A. de C.V. and non-public homebuilders like Grupo SADASI, and RUBA Our ability to maintain existing levels of home sales depends to some extent on competitive conditions, including price competition, competition for available mortgage financing, and competition for available land. Competition is likely to continue or intensify. Competitive conditions may prevent us from achieving our goal of increasing our volumes of sales, or increased competition may result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. Changes in Building and Zoning Regulations to which We Are Subject Could Cause Delays in Construction and Result in Increased Costs The Mexican housing industry is subject to extensive building and zoning regulation by various federal, state, and municipal authorities. These authorities oversee land acquisition, development and construction activities, and certain dealings with customers. The costs associated with obtaining building and zoning permits, paying purchase or development fees and taxes, securing utility service rights and titling new homes are substantially higher in Mexico than in other countries and vary significantly from region to region in Mexico. We are required to obtain the approval of numerous federal, state, and local governmental authorities for our development activities. Changes in local circumstances or applicable law or regulations of such entities may require modifying or applying for additional approvals or changing our processes and procedures to comply with them. It is possible that these factors could cause delays in construction and result in increased costs. Changes to Environmental Laws and Regulations to which We Are Subject Could Cause Delays in Construction and Result in Increased Costs Our operations are subject to Mexican federal, state, and municipal environmental laws and regulations. Changes to environmental laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could cause delays in construction and result in increased costs. Our Uninsured Housing Developments under Construction Could Suffer Unforeseen Casualties, which Could Result in Significant Losses to Us We do not generally obtain liability insurance to cover housing developments under construction unless it is required by providers of construction financing. In the event that our uninsured housing developments suffer unforeseen casualties, we may experience significant losses. Reduction in distributions from our operating subsidiaries could limit our ability to pay dividends and service our debt obligations We are a holding company with no substantial operations and no significant assets other than the common shares of our majority-owned subsidiaries. We depend on receiving sufficient funds from our subsidiaries for virtually all our internal cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends and service our debt obligations. As a result, our cash flow will be affected if we do not receive dividends and other income from our subsidiaries. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other transfers to us is limited by requirements that need to be satisfied under Mexican law. This ability may also be limited by credit agreements entered into by our subsidiaries. 14 Risk Factors Related to Mexico Adverse Economic Conditions in Mexico May Result in a Decrease in Our Sales and Revenues We are a Mexican company with substantially all of our assets located in Mexico and all of our revenues derived from operations in Mexico. As such, our business may be significantly affected by the general conditions of the Mexican economy. Mexico experienced a period of slow growth from 2001 through 2003 primarily as a result of the downturn in the U.S. economy. In 2004, GDP grew by 4.2% and inflation increased to 5.2%. During 2005, GDP grew by 3% and inflation decreased to 3.3%. Finally in 2006, GDP grew by 4.5% and inflation increased to 4.1%. Mexico also has, and is expected to continue to have, high real and nominal interest rates. The interest rates on 28-day Mexican government treasury securities (Certificados de la Tesoreria de la Federacion) averaged approximately 6.8%, 9.2% and 7.0% for 2004, 2005 and 2006 respectively. Accordingly, to the extent that we incur peso-denominated debt in the future, it could be at high interest rates. If the Mexican economy falls into a recession or if inflation and interest rates increase significantly, consumer purchasing power will be decreased and demand for housing may decrease. In addition, a recession could affect our operations to the extent that we are unable to reduce our costs and expenses in response to falling demand. These factors could result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. Fluctuations of the Peso Relative to the U.S. Dollar Could Result in an Increase in Our Cost of Financing and Limit Our Ability to Make Timely Payments on Foreign Currency Denominated Debt Because substantially all of our revenues are and will continue to be denominated in pesos, if the value of the peso decreases against the U.S. dollar, our cost of financing will increase. Severe depreciation of the peso may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets. This may limit our ability to transfer or convert pesos into U.S. dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our securities and any U.S. dollar-denominated debt that we may incur in the future. While the Mexican government has not restricted the right or ability of Mexican or foreign individuals to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico since 1982, the Mexican government could institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future. Political Events in Mexico May Result in Disruptions to Our Business Operations and Decreases in Our Sales and Revenues The Mexican government exercises significant influence over many aspects of the Mexican economy. In addition, we depend on Mexican government housing policy, especially with regard to the operation of government-sponsored mortgage providers, for a large portion of our business. As a result, the actions of the Mexican government concerning the economy and regulating certain industries could have a significant effect on Mexican private sector entities, including Homex, and on market conditions, prices, and returns on Mexican securities. The Mexican national elections held on July 2, 2000 ended 71 years of rule by the Institutional Revolutionary Party (Partido Revolucionario Institucional) with the election of President Vicente Fox Quesada, a member of the National Action Party (Partido Accion Nacional), resulted in the increased representation of opposition parties in the Mexican national congress and in municipal and gubernatorial positions. As a result of these elections and legislative elections held on July 6, 2003, no political party had a majority in the Mexican national congress. This shift in political power transformed Mexico from a one-party state to a multi-party democracy. Presidential and Federal Congressional elections were held in Mexico on July 2, 2006. On July 6, 2006, the Federal Electoral Institute declared that Felipe Calderón Hinojosa, the presidential candidate of Partido de Acción Nacional ("PAN"), obtained 35.89% of the popular vote, while Andrés Manual López Obrador, presidential candidate of the Alianza por el Bien de Todos ("ABT"), received 35.31% of the popular vote. As a result of the elections, the Mexican Congress is currently divided politically, with PAN representing the largest group but failing to obtain majority control. On December 1, 2006, Mr. Calderón was officially sworn in as President before the Mexican Congress. 15 Mr. Calderón's presidency may also bring significant changes in laws, public polices and/or regulations that could affect Mexico's political and economic situation, which could adversely affect our business. Social and political instability in Mexico or other adverse social or political developments in or affecting Mexico could adversely affect us and our ability to obtain financing. It is also possible that political uncertainty may adversely affect Mexican financial markets. We cannot provide any assurance that future political developments in Mexico, over which we have no control, will not have an unfavorable impact on our financial position or results of operations. Developments in Other Countries May Result in Decreases in the Price of Our Securities As is the case with respect to securities of issuers from other emerging markets, the market value of securities of Mexican companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in these countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. In recent years, for example, prices of both Mexican debt securities and Mexican equity securities dropped substantially as a result of developments in Russia, Asia, and Brazil. In addition, the direct correlation between economic conditions in Mexico and the United States has sharpened in recent years as a result of the North American Free Trade Agreement and increased economic activity between the two countries. As a result, economic downturns in the United States could have a significant adverse effect on the Mexican economy, which, in turn, could affect our financial condition and results of operations. We Are Subject to Different Corporate Disclosure and Accounting Standards than U.S. Companies A principal objective of the securities laws of the United States, Mexico, and other countries is to promote full and fair disclosure of all material corporate information. However, there may be less or different publicly available information about foreign issuers of securities than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers of listed securities. Risk Factors Related to Our Common Shares and ADSs Future Issuances of Shares May Result in a Decrease of the Market Price of the ADSs and Common Shares In the future, we may issue additional equity securities for financing and other general corporate purposes, although there is no present intention to do so. Any such sales or the prospect of any such sales could result in a decrease of the market price of the ADSs and common shares. Future Sales of Our Shares by Our Principal Shareholders May Result in a Decrease of the Share Price of Our Securities Our principal shareholders, including the de Nicolás family and Equity International Properties, hold 46% of our outstanding share capital. Actions by these shareholders with respect to the disposition of the shares they beneficially own, or the perception that such actions might occur, may decrease the trading price of our shares on the Mexican Stock Exchange and the price of the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange. None of our principal shareholders is subject to any contractual restrictions that limit their right to dispose of their common shares. Preemptive Rights May be Unavailable to Holders of Our ADSs, Which May Result in a Dilution of ADS Holders’ Equity Interest in Our Company Under Mexican law if we issue new shares for cash as part of a capital increase, we must grant preemptive rights to our shareholders, giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their pro-rata interest unless we issue shares in a public offering. However, we may not be legally permitted to offer ADS holders in the United States the right to exercise preemptive rights in any future issuances of shares unless we file a registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, with respect to that future issuance of shares; or the issuance qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, or Securities Act. At the time of any future 16 capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC, the benefits of enabling U.S. holders of ADSs to exercise preemptive rights, and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file a registration statement to permit the exercise of mandatory preemptive rights. It is possible that we will not file such a registration statement. As a result, the equity interests of ADS holders would be diluted to the extent that ADS holders cannot participate in a future capital increase. Under the terms of the ADSs, you may instruct the depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, to vote the ordinary shares underlying our ADSs, but only if we request the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the common shares underlying the ADSs and vote such common shares. However, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your common shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send out or receive your voting instructions on time or carry them out in the manner you have instructed. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote. In addition, Mexican law and our bylaws require shareholders to deposit their common shares with our secretary or with a Mexican custodian and provide evidence of their status as shareholders in order to attend shareholders’ meetings. ADS holders will not be able to meet this requirement and accordingly are not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings. ADS holders will also not be permitted to vote the common shares underlying the ADSs directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so without withdrawing the common shares. Please see “Description of American Depositary Receipts” of this prospectus for further discussion regarding the deposit agreement and your voting rights. Minority Shareholders Have Different Rights Against Us, Our Directors, or Our Controlling Shareholders in Mexico Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those afforded to minority shareholders in the United States. For example, under Mexican Law, there are unclearly defined grounds on which a minority shareholder may bring an action against directors for breach of their fiduciary duty as permitted in most jurisdictions in the United States. The grounds for shareholder derivative actions under Mexican law are extremely limited, which effectively bars most of these kinds of suits in Mexico. Procedures for class action lawsuits do not exist under Mexican law. Therefore, it may be more difficult- for minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us, our directors, or our controlling shareholders than it would be for minority shareholders of a U.S. company. It May Be Difficult to Enforce Civil Liabilities Against Us or Our Directors, Executive Officers and Controlling Persons We are organized under the laws of Mexico. A majority of our directors, executives officers and controlling persons reside outside the U.S., all or a significant portion of the assets of our directors, executive officers and controlling persons, and substantially all of our assets, are located outside the U.S., and certain of the experts named in this annual report also reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons or to enforce against them or us in U.S. courts judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. We have been advised by our Mexican counsel. Cortes, Muñiz y Núñez Sarrapy, S.C., that there is doubt as to the enforceability, in original actions in Mexican courts, of liabilities predicated solely on U.S. federal securities law and as to the enforceability in Mexican courts of judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. See “Limitation of Liability.” 17 