ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business Synutra is subject to intense competition in which it may not be able to compete effectively. Synutra’s business is subject to intense competition, changes in consumer preferences and local economic conditions. Most of these competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than Synutra has any may be able to respond more quickly than it scan to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements. Increased competition can reduce sales for Synutra. To be successful, Synutra must continue to: · promote its brands successfully; · anticipate and respond to new consumer trends; · develop new products and markets and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively with lower priced products; · improve productivity; and · respond effectively to changing prices for raw materials. The willingness of consumers to purchase Synutra’s brands depends in part on local economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label and other economy brands, and the volume of its products could suffer accordingly. Mothers may not use Synutra’s infant formula products and elect to breastfeed their babies. Synutra’s results of operations will be affected by the number of mothers who choose not to use its products and choose to breastfeed their babies. There is data available that suggests that breastfeeding a baby has many health benefits for the baby. Breastfeeding in infancy is likely to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease-in adult life as well as helping a baby develop a strong immune system. Mother’s milk has all the nutrients that a baby requires and some babies may have difficulty absorbing the nutrients from infant formula and may suffer side effects from the supplemental nutrients provided in formula. Some mothers may have trouble breastfeeding and therefore infant formula is the next best alternative. However, to the extent that popular literature, cultural pressure and medical advice advocate that mothers breastfeed their babies, there could be a reduced demand for Synutra’s products and its revenues could be adversely affected. 12 Strengthening brand portfolios through increased education and awareness. One element of the growth strategy of Synutra is to strengthen its brand portfolios through active programs of consumer education and awareness of its products. Synutra intends to improve communications to its customers about the nutritional value and quality of its products. There can be no assurance that it will be successful in this growth strategy and that sales volume will be increased. Synutra must identify changing consumer preferences and develop and offer products to meet their preferences. Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of Synutra’s products depends on Synutra’s ability to identify the tastes and nutritional needs of its customers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. Synutra introduces new products and improved products from time to time and incurs significant development and marketing costs. If Synutra’s products fail to meet consumer preference, then Synutra’s strategy to grow sales and profits with new products will be less successful. If Synutra does not achieve the appropriate cost structure in the highly competitive industry, its profitability could decrease. Synutra’s success depends in part on its ability to achieve the appropriate cost structure and be efficient in a highly competitive industry. Synutra’s products are marketed in the premium branded market, however, it may not be successful in marketing these products at a higher price point. Synutra is currently implementing profit-enhancing initiatives that impact its marketing, sales, operations and information systems functions. These initiatives include: elimination of duplicative costs and overhead; consolidation of selected plants and support functions; efforts to streamline and improve Synutra’s ability to do business with its customers, and distributors and brokers. If Synutra does not continue to manage costs and achieve additional efficiencies, its competitiveness and profitability could decrease. Synutra may be subject to product liability claims and product recalls, which could negatively impact its profitability. Synutra sells products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering and other adulteration of its products. Synutra may be subject to liability if the consumption of any of its products causes injury, illness or death. In addition, Synutra will voluntarily recall products in the event of contamination or damage. A significant product liability judgment or a widespread product recall may negatively impact Synutra’s profitability for a period of time depending on product availability, competitive reaction and consumer attitudes. Even if a product liability claim is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that Synutra’s products caused illness or injury could adversely affect Synutra’s reputation with existing and potential customers and its corporate and brand image. Synutra does not have liability insurance with respect to product liability claims. Any product liabilities claims could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Commodity price increases will increase operating costs and may reduce profits. Synutra uses many different commodities including fresh milk, whey protein powder and energy. Commodities are subject to price volatility caused by commodity market fluctuations, supply and demand, currency fluctuations, and changes in governmental agricultural programs. Commodity price increases will result in increases in raw material costs and operating costs. Synutra may not be able to increase its product prices to offset these increased costs; and increasing prices may result in reduced sales volume and profitability. It does not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices and its hedging strategies may not work as planned. 13 Synutra may not be able to sustain market acceptance for its services and products. Synutra has established limited brand recognition in China. Failure to establish a brand and presence in the marketplace on a timely basis could adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. Moreover, Synutra cannot be sure that it will successfully complete the development and introduction of new products or product enhancements or that any new products developed will achieve acceptance in the marketplace. It may also fail to develop and deploy new products and product enhancements on a timely basis. In addition, currently Synutra only sells its products in China. It may seek to expand its distribution to South and Southeast Asia. There can be no assurance that Synutra will be able to expand its distribution in the future or that any such expansion will be successful. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any expansion will not have a material adverse effect on the operating results of Synutra, particularly while it is implementing such expansion and the costs associated with any expansion. If Synutra fails to comply with the many laws applicable to its business, it may incur significant fines and penalties. Synutra’s facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the Industry and Commerce Management and Administration (ICMA) Bureau, the Taxation Registration Office, Health and Hygiene Permitting Office (HHP), Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine (AQSIQ), and the State Food and Drug Administration Bureau (SFDA) relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products. Synutra’s failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject it to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of its products. It is possible that change to such laws, more rigorous enforcement of such laws or Synutra’s current or past practices, could have a material adverse effect on Synutra’s business, operating results and financial condition. Further, additional environmental, health or safety issues relating to matters that are not currently known to management may result in unanticipated liabilities and expenditures. Synutra’s quarterly revenues, operating results and profitability will vary from quarter to quarter, which may result in volatility of its stock price. Synutra’s quarterly revenues, operating results and profitability have varied in the past and are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. This may lead to volatility in its stock price. The factors that are likely to cause these variations may include the introduction of new products or services by Synutra or its competitors and a combination of the other adverse developments as discussed in these risk factors. Nondisclosure agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect Synutra’s proprietary technology and processes, it also relies in part on nondisclosure agreements with its employees, licensing partners, consultants, agents and other organizations to which it discloses its proprietary information. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases it could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of its proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect its competitive business position. Since Synutra relies on trade secrets and nondisclosure agreements, in addition to patents, to protect some of its intellectual property (such as its infant formula), there is a risk that third parties may obtain and improperly utilize its proprietary information to its competitive disadvantage. 14 Synutra does not have long term contracts with its fresh milk suppliers. Synutra typically has not entered into written long terms agreements with its fresh milk suppliers. As a result, suppliers may, without notice or penalty, terminate their relationship with Synutra at any time. Synutra typically purchases fresh milk from multiple dairy farmers and cooperatives without long term contract arrangements. Failure to receive fresh milk in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on Synutra’s business, operating results and financial condition. Synutra does not have long term contracts with its customers. Synutra typically has not entered into written long terms agreements with customers. As a result, customers may, without notice or penalty, terminate their relationship with Synutra at any time. In addition, even if customers should decide to continue their relationship with Synutra, there can be no guarantee that they will purchase the same amounts of products as in the past. Any loss of a customer, or decrease in the volume of products purchased by a customer could have a material adverse effect on Synutra’s business, operating results and financial condition. Loss of key executives and failure to attract qualified management could limit growth and negatively impact operations. Synutra depends highly upon its senior management team. It will continue to depend on operations management personnel with industry experience. At this time, Synutra does not know the availability of such experienced management personnel or how much it may cost to attract and retain such personnel. The loss of the services of any member of senior management or the inability to hire experienced operations management personnel could have a material adverse effect on the operations and financial condition of Synutra. Failure to effectively respond to product and business crises could negatively impact brand image, business reputation, and results. In times of possible market crisis involving any of Synutra’s products, Synutra management may not be able to respond to such events in a timely and effective manner. Such failure and/or inadequacy could occur due to the growth of management and having many layers of management within Synutra’s management structure as the company grows. For example, one of Synutra’s competitors did not respond quickly to a localized consumer complaint over a test result of out-of-spec iodine levels has resulted in damage to this brand image and may have had a material adverse effect on its results of operations. If Synutra’s management does not respond quickly and appropriately to any quality control issues or customer complaints, it could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA The Chinese Legal System The practical effect of the People's Republic of China legal system on Synutra’s business operations in China can be viewed from two separate but intertwined considerations. First, as a matter of substantive law, the Foreign Invested Enterprise laws provide significant protection from government interference. In addition, these laws guarantee the full enjoyment of the benefits of corporate articles and contracts to Foreign Invested Enterprise participants. These laws, however, do impose standards concerning corporate formation and governance, which are not qualitatively different from the general corporation laws of the several provinces. Similarly, the accounting laws of the People's Republic of China mandate accounting practices that are not entirely consistent with US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The Chinese accounting laws require that an annual "statutory audit" be performed in accordance with the People's Republic of China accounting standards and that the books of account of Foreign Invested Enterprises be maintained in accordance with Chinese accounting laws. Article 14 of the People's Republic of China Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise Law requires a Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprise to submit certain periodic fiscal reports and statements to designated financial and tax authorities, at the risk of business license revocation. 15 Second, while the enforcement of substantive rights may appear less clear than United States procedures, the Foreign Invested Enterprises and Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprises are Chinese registered companies which enjoy the same status as other Chinese registered companies in business-to-business dispute resolution. Therefore, as a practical matter, although no assurances can be given, the Chinese legal infrastructure, while different in operation from its United States counterpart, should not present any significant impediment to the operation of Foreign Invested Enterprises. Changes in the laws and regulations in The Peoples Republic of China may adversely affect Synutra’s ability to conduct its business. As Chinese corporations, all of Synutra’s operating subsidiaries are subject to the Company Law of The Peoples Republic of China and more specifically to the Foreign Company provisions of the Company Law and the Law on Foreign Capital Enterprises of the People's Republic of China. Additionally, as a food manufacturing company, Synutra is subject to the laws and regulations from Health and Hygiene Permitting Office (HHP), Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine (AQSIQ), and the State Food and Drug Administration Bureau (SFDA). Changes in existing laws or new interpretations of such laws may have a significant impact on our methods and costs of doing business. For example, new legislative proposals for product pricing, approval criteria and manufacturing requirements may be proposed and adopted. Such new legislation or regulatory requirements may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, we will be subject to varying degrees of regulation and licensing by governmental agencies in The Peoples Republic of China. There can be no assurance that the future regulatory, judicial and legislative changes will not have a material adverse effect on Synutra’s Chinese operating subsidiaries, that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to its Chinese subsidiaries or its compliance or non-compliance with applicable laws or regulations or that any changes in applicable laws or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our operations. Economic reform issues may have an adverse impact on the business. Although the Chinese government owns the majority of productive assets in China, in the past several years the government has implemented economic reform measures that emphasize decentralization and encourage private economic activity. Because these economic reform measures may be inconsistent or ineffectual, there are no assurances that: · Synutra will be able to capitalize on economic reforms; · The Chinese government will continue its pursuit of economic reform policies; · The economic policies, even if pursued, will be successful; · Economic policies will not be significantly altered from time to time; and · Business operations in China will not become subject to the risk of nationalization. Negative impact upon economic reform policies or nationalization could result in a total investment loss in Synutra’s common stock. Since 1979, the Chinese government has reformed its economic systems. Because many reforms are unprecedented or experimental, they are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors, such as political changes, changes in the rates of economic growth, unemployment or inflation, or in the disparities in per capita wealth between regions within China, could lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refining and readjustment process may negatively affect Synutra's operations. 16 Over the last few years, China's economy has registered a high growth rate. Recently, there have been indications that rates of inflation have increased. In response, the Chinese government recently has taken measures to curb this excessively expansive economy. These measures have included restrictions on the availability of domestic credit, reducing the purchasing capability of certain of its customers, and limited re-centralization of the approval process for purchases of some foreign products. These austerity measures alone may not succeed in slowing down the economy's excessive expansion or control inflation, and may result in severe dislocations in the Chinese economy. The Chinese government may adopt additional measures to further combat inflation, including the establishment of freezes or restraints on certain projects or markets. To date reforms to China's economic system have not adversely impacted Synutra's operations and are not expected to adversely impact operations in the foreseeable future; however, there can be no assurance that the reforms to China's economic system will continue or that Synutra will not be adversely affected by changes in China's political, economic, and social conditions and by changes in policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws and regulations, measures which may be introduced to control inflation, changes in the rate or method of taxation, imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and remittance abroad, and reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions. Synutra may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in The Peoples Republic of China. The People’s Republic of China historically has been deficient in Western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking, computer and other control systems. Synutra may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in The Peoples Republic of China. As a result of these factors, it may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Capital outflow policies in The Peoples Republic of China may hamper Synutra’s ability to remit income to the United States. The People’s Republic of China has adopted currency and capital transfer regulations. These regulations may require that Synutra comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. In order to comply with these regulations it may have to revise or change the banking structure of the company or its subsidiaries Although management believes that Synutra is currently in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by courts or regulatory agencies change it may not be able to remit all income earned and proceeds received in connection with its operations to the U.S. It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against Synutra’s officers, directors and assets based in The Peoples Republic of China. Because all of directors and most of Synutra’s executive officers, including Liang Zhang, the chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer, are Chinese citizens and reside in China it may be difficult, if not impossible, to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event a lawsuit is initiated against Synutra and/or its officers and directors by a stockholder or group of stockholders in the U.S. Furthermore, because the majority of its assets are located in The Peoples Republic of China it would also be very difficult to access those assets to satisfy an award entered against Synutra in U.S. court. Synutra may face obstacles from the political system in The Peoples Republic of China. Foreign companies conducting operations in The Peoples Republic of China face significant political, economic and legal risks. The political system in The Peoples Republic of China, including a strong bureaucracy, may hinder Western investment. Another obstacle to foreign investment is corruption. There is no assurance that Synutra will be able to obtain recourse, if desired, through The Peoples Republic of China’s less developed judicial systems. 17 RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY’S COMMON STOCK The Company’s stock is thinly traded, so you may be unable to sell your shares at or near the quoted bid prices if you need to sell a significant number of your shares. The shares of the Company’s common stock are currently thinly-traded on the Nasdaq Global Market, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing its common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that the Company is a small to mid cap company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if it came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and may be reluctant to follow the Company. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in the shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. The Company cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for its common shares will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. Due to these conditions, the Company can give you no assurance that you will be able to sell your shares at or near bid prices or at all if you need money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. Anti-takeover provisions in the Company’s certificate of incorporation could affect the value of its stock. The Company’s Certificate of Incorporation contains certain provisions that could be an impediment to a non-negotiated change in control. In particular, without stockholder approval, the Company can issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock with rights and preferences determined by the Company’s Board of Directors. These provisions could make a hostile takeover or other non-negotiated change in control difficult, so that stockholders would not be able to receive a premium for their common stock. Potential issuance of additional common and preferred stock could dilute existing stockholders. The Company is authorized to issue up to 250,000,000 shares of common stock. To the extent of such authorization, the Company’s Board of Directors has the ability, without seeking stockholder approval, to issue additional shares of common stock in the future for such consideration as the Board of Directors may consider sufficient. The issuance of additional common stock in the future will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of the common stock offered hereby. The Company is also authorized to issue up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, the rights and preferences of which may be designated in series by the Board of Directors. Such designation of new series of preferred stock may be made without stockholder approval, and could create additional securities which would have dividend and liquidation preferences over the common stock offered hereby. Preferred stockholders could adversely affect the rights of holders of common stock by: · exercising voting, redemption and conversion rights to the detriment of the holders of common stock; · receiving preferences over the holders of common stock regarding or surplus funds in the event of its dissolution or liquidation; · delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company; and 18 · discouraging bids for its common stock. The Company’s existing directors, executive officers and principal stockholders hold a substantial amount of its common stock and may be able to prevent other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. As of March 31, 2007, the Company’s directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially own approximately 87.31% of its outstanding common stock, based on the most recent filings by such parties with the Securities and Exchange Commission as of that date. These stockholders, if they act together, may be able to direct the outcome of matters requiring approval of the stockholders, including the election of its directors and other corporate actions such as: · its merger with or into another company; · a sale of substantially all of its assets; and · amendments to its certificate of incorporation. The decisions of these stockholders may conflict with its interests or those of the Company’s other stockholders. Substantial sales of common stock could cause stock price to fall. As of June 18, 2007, the Company had outstanding 54,000,713 shares of common stock, of which approximately 52,907,415 shares were “restricted securities” (as that term is defined under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended). Only approximately 1,093,298 shares are currently freely tradable shares. These 52,906,875 shares of restricted stock are eligible for public resale under Rule 144. Although Rule 144 restricts the number of shares that any one holder can sell during any three-month period under Rule 144, because more than one stockholder holds these restricted shares, a significant number of shares could legally be sold commencing in one year. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that sales of the shares subject to Rule 144 sales commencing in one year, or the availability of such shares for sale, will have on the market prices prevailing from time to time. Nevertheless, the possibility that substantial amounts of common stock may be sold in the public market may adversely affect prevailing market prices for its common stock and could impair its ability to raise capital through the sale of its equity securities. The market price of the Company’s stock may be adversely affected by market volatility. The market price of the Company’s common stock is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to many factors, including: · announcements of technological innovations by the Company or its competitors; · announcements of new products or new contracts by the Company or its competitors; · actual or anticipated variations in its operating results due to the level of expenses and other factors; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts and whether its earnings meet or exceed such estimates; · conditions and trends in the baby food and other industries; 19 · new accounting standards; · general economic, political and market conditions and other factors; and · the occurrence of any of the risks described in this Form 10-K. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 