RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to Our Business Decreases in the Amount of Mortgage Financing Provided by Mexican Housing Funds on Which We Depend, or Disbursement Delays, Could Result in a Decrease in Our Sales and Revenues The home building industry in Mexico has been characterized by a significant shortage of mortgage financing. Historically, the limited availability of financing has restricted home building and contributed to the current shortage of affordable entry-level housing. Substantially all financing for affordable entry-level housing in Mexico is provided by entities established for this purpose (“Mexican Housing Funds”) such as: · the National Workers’ Housing Fund Institute, or “INFONAVIT” (Instituto del Fondo Nacional para la Vivienda de los Trabajadores), which is financed primarily through mandatory contributions from the gross wages of private sector workers, and securitization of mortgages in the capital markets; · the Social Security and Services Institute Public Segment Workers’ Housing Fund, or “FOVISSSTE” (Fondo para la Vivienda y la Seguridad y Servicios Sociales para los Trabajadores del Estado ), which is financed primarily through mandatory contributions from the gross wages of public sector workers; and · public mortgage providers such as the Federal Mortgage Society, or “SHF” (Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal, S.N.C., Institucion de Banca de Desarrollo), which is financed through its own funds as well as funds provided by the World Bank and a trust managed by Banco de México. See “Item 4. Information on the Company— Business Overview—The Mexican Housing Market.” The amount of funding available and the level of mortgage financing from these sources is limited and may vary from year to year. These Mexican Housing Funds have significant discretion in terms of the allocation and timing of disbursement of mortgage funds. We depend on the availability of mortgage financing provided by these Mexican Housing Funds for substantially all of our sales of affordable entry-level housing, which represented 67.6% of our revenues for 2010 and 78.9% of our revenues for 2009. Accordingly, our financial results are affected by policies and administrative procedures of INFONAVIT, FOVISSSTE, SHF, and a federal housing subsidy program, as well as by the Mexican government’s housing policy. The availability of mortgage financing granted by INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE has increased significantly during the past eight years as compared to historical levels, while financing from SHF has decreased due to a change in its policy in 2005. The future Mexican government housing finance policy may limit or delay the availability of mortgage financing provided by these agencies or otherwise institute changes, including changes in the methods by which these agencies grant mortgages and, in the case of INFONAVIT, the geographic allocation of mortgage financing, that could result in a decrease in revenues. Disruptions in the operations of these Mexican Housing Funds, which could occur for any reason, may occur and result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. During 2009, disruptions included a delay in the disbursement of Mexican federal government subsidies in certain cities delaying the timing by which INFONAVIT commits to closing a transaction, and a slowdown in the collection process through FOVISSSTE, who employs sofoles to make payments which result in delays in the payment process. Decreases or delays in the amount of funds available from INFONAVIT, FOVISSSTE, SHF or other sources, or substantially increased competition for these funds, could result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. These funds may not continue to be allocated at their current levels or in regions in which we have or can quickly establish a significant presence. The current administration of President Felipe Calderón has initiated a National Housing Program (Programa Nacional de Vivienda) 2007-2012, through which the government expects that Mexican Housing Funds will provide six million mortgages by 2012, mainly to low-income families. For 2011, the government believes that Mexican Housing Funds will provide 1.1 million residential mortgages. 13 Table of Contents A Slowdown in the Mexican Economy Could Limit the Availability of Private-Segment Financing in Mexico, on Which We Depend for Our Sales of Middle-Income Housing, Which Could Result in a Decrease in Our Sales and Revenues One of our long-term strategies is to expand our operations in the middle-income and residential housing segments while maintaining our margins and without adversely affecting our financial condition. Our expansion into these markets depends on private sector lenders, such as commercial banks and Limited Purpose Financing Companies and Multiple Purpose Financing Companies (Sociedades Financieras de Objeto Limitado y Sociedades Financieras de Objeto Múltiple, or “sofoles” and “sofomes”), which provide a substantial majority of mortgage financing for the middle-income segment. The availability of private sector mortgage financing in Mexico has been severely constrained in the past as a result of volatile economic conditions in Mexico, the level of liquidity and stability of the Mexican banking system, and the resulting adoption of more stringent lending criteria and bank regulations. From 1995 through 2001, commercial bank mortgage lending was generally unavailable in Mexico. However, during the same period a number of sofoles were formed, serving the mostly middle-income market. Since 2002, private sector lenders have gradually increased their mortgage financing activities as a result of improved economic conditions and increasing consumer demand. However, unfavorable general economic conditions, such as the recession and economic slowdown during 2009 in the United States negatively affected the Mexican economy and the availability of private sector mortgage financing. As a result, commercial lenders tightened their criteria for mortgage origination. Additionally, sofoles and sofomes faced liquidity constraints due to increased exposure to non-performing loans. As a result, since 2009, we decreased our exposure to the middle-income segment as sofoles and sofomes have continued to face liquidity constraints. During 2010, mortgages for the middle income segment continued to be constrained, as commercial banks and sofoles continued to be the main source of financing to the segment. Financing to the segment was importantly supported by co-financing products through INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE. During 2010, INFONAVIT co-financed products represented 19.7 percent of the total mortgages placed or 93,727 mortgages compared to 9.1 percent or 40,655 mortgages during 2009. A prolonged economic slowdown in the United States and Mexico could result in reduced profitability and negatively affect our financial performance. Our Strategy for Expansion in the Tourism/Resort Housing Market may be Affected by a Slowdown in U.S. General Economic Conditions, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business or Our Financial Results The tourism/resort homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. Adverse changes in any of these conditions, or in the markets where our targeted clients operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes in the tourism/resort housing markets, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings and would adversely affect our financial condition. However, the Company believes that the targeted customers will consist of an exclusive sector of senior U.S. and Canadian residents, for whom the availability of financing is not a key requisite for purchasing a second home. Nonetheless, we anticipate a reduction in potential customers for this segment due to continued softer demand from our targeted customers related to the economic slowdown started in 2008. We Experience Significant Seasonality in Our Results of Operations The Mexican affordable entry-level housing industry experiences significant seasonality during the year, principally due to the operational and lending cycles of INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE. Payment by these lenders for home deliveries is slow at the beginning of the year and increases gradually through the second and third quarters with a rapid acceleration in the fourth quarter. We build and deliver affordable entry-level homes based on the seasonality of this cycle because we do not begin construction of these homes until a mortgage provider commits mortgage financing to a qualified homebuyer in a particular development. Accordingly, we tend to recognize significantly higher levels of revenue in the third and fourth quarters and our debt levels tend to be highest in the first and second quarters. We anticipate that our quarterly results of operations and our level of indebtedness will continue to experience variability from quarter to quarter in the future. We May Experience Difficulty in Finding Desirable Land Tracts or Increases in the Price of Land May Increase Our Cost of Sales and Decrease Our Earnings Our continued growth depends in large part on our ability to continue to be able to acquire land and to do so at a reasonable cost. As more developers enter or expand their operations in the Mexican home building industry, land prices could rise significantly and suitable land could become scarce due to increased demand or decreased supply. A resulting rise in land prices may increase our cost of sales and decrease our earnings. We may not be able to continue to acquire suitable land at reasonable prices in the future. 14 Table of Contents Increases in the Price of Raw Materials May Increase Our Cost of Sales and Reduce Our Net Earnings The basic raw materials used in the construction of our homes include concrete, concrete block, steel, windows, doors, roof tiles and plumbing fixtures. Increases in the price of raw materials, including increases that may occur as a result of shortages, duties, restrictions, or fluctuations in exchange rates, could increase our cost of sales and reduce our net earnings to the extent we are unable to increase our sale prices. It is possible that the prices of our raw materials will increase in the future. Loss of the Services of Our Key Management Personnel Could Result in Disruptions to Our Business Operations Our management and operations are dependent in large part upon the contributions of a small number of key senior management personnel, including Eustaquio Tomás de Nicolás Gutiérrez, our Chairman, and Gerardo de Nicolás Gutiérrez, our Chief Executive Officer. We do not have employment or non-compete agreements with or maintain key-man life insurance in respect of either of these individuals. Because of their knowledge of the industry and our operations and their experience with Homex, we believe that our future results will depend upon their efforts, and the loss of the services of either of these individuals for any reason could adversely affect our business operations. Competition from Other Home Builders Could Result in a Decrease in Our Sales and Revenues The home building industry in Mexico is highly competitive. Our principal competitors include public companies like Corporación GEO, S.A.B. de C.V., Consorcio ARA, S.A.B. de C.V., URBI Desarrollos Urbanos, S.A.B. de C.V. and SARE, S.A.B. de C.V. Our ability to maintain existing levels of home sales depends to some extent on competitive conditions, including price competition, competition for available mortgage financing, and competition for available land. Competition is likely to continue to decrease as some smaller and medium-sized homebuilding companies in Mexico are experiencing limited growth opportunities due to: (1) their dependence on bridge loans and short-term credit lines; (2) increases in the range of 300 to 400 bps in these companies interest rates for short-term credit lines; and (3) tighter lending restrictions from commercial banks to renew existing credit lines. We may experience pressure to reduce our prices in certain regions if some of our competitors are forced to sell their inventory in distressed sales upon exiting the market. In addition, competitive conditions may prevent us from achieving our goal of increasing our sales volume, or result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. Adverse Economic Conditions in Mexico or in Other Emerging Markets Could Adversely Affect Us We currently maintain operations in Mexico and to a lesser extent in other emerging markets. We expect that in the future we will have additional operations in the countries where we currently operate or in other countries with similar political and economic conditions. These emerging markets have a history of economic instability. Our operations may be adversely affected by trade barriers, currency fluctuations and exchange controls, high levels of inflation and increases in duties, taxes and governmental royalties, as well as changes in local laws and policies of the countries in which we conduct business. The governments of countries in which we operate, or may operate in the future, could take actions that materially adversely affect us. Accordingly, our results of operations and financial condition depend upon the overall level of economic activity and political stability in these emerging markets. Should economic conditions deteriorate in these countries or in emerging markets generally, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, we cannot provide any assurance that international markets will provide similar demand for housing as Mexico, that we will have similar success selling the houses that we may develop in international markets, or that the necessary financing from private and public sources will enable the public in these international markets to purchase the supply of housing that we may develop in these markets. As a result of our expansion into international markets, our profitability could be reduced and our financial performance could be negatively affected. Changes in Building and Zoning Regulations to Which We are Subject Could Cause Delays in Construction and Result in Increased Costs The Mexican housing industry is subject to extensive building and zoning regulation by various federal, state and municipal authorities. These authorities oversee land acquisition, development and construction activities, and certain dealings with customers. The costs associated with obtaining building and zoning permits, paying purchase or development fees and taxes, securing utility service rights and titling new homes are substantially higher in Mexico than in other countries and vary significantly from region to region in Mexico. We are required to obtain the approval of numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities for our development activities. Changes in local circumstances or applicable law or regulations of such entities may require modifying or 15 Table of Contents applying for additional approvals or changing our processes and procedures to comply with them. It is possible that these factors could cause delays in construction and result in increased costs. Changes to Environmental Laws and Regulations to Which We are Subject Could Cause Delays in Construction and Result in Increased Costs Our operations are subject to Mexican federal, state and municipal environmental laws and regulations. Changes to environmental laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could cause delays in construction and result in increased costs. Our Uninsured Housing Developments under Construction Could Suffer Unforeseen Casualties, Which Could Result in Significant Losses to Us We do not generally obtain liability insurance to cover housing developments under construction unless it is required by providers of construction financing. In the event that our uninsured housing developments suffer unforeseen casualties, we may experience significant losses. A Reduction in Distributions from Our Operating Subsidiaries Could Limit Our Ability to pay Dividends and Service Our Debt Obligations We are a holding company with no substantial operations and no significant assets other than the common shares of our majority-owned subsidiaries. We depend on receiving sufficient funds from our subsidiaries for virtually all our internal cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends and service our debt obligations. As a result, our cash flow will be affected if we do not receive dividends and other income from our subsidiaries. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other transfers to us is limited by requirements that need to be satisfied under Mexican law. This ability may also be limited by credit agreements entered into by our subsidiaries. We Cannot Predict the Impact that Changing Climate Conditions, Including Legal, Regulatory and Social Responses Thereto, May Have on Our Business Various scientists, environmentalists, international organizations, regulators and other commentators believe that global climate change has added, and will continue to add, to the unpredictability, frequency and severity of natural disasters (including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, freezes, other storms and fires) in certain parts of the world. In response to this belief, a number of legal and regulatory measures as well as social initiatives have been introduced in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas and other carbon emissions which some believe may be chief contributors to global climate change. We cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions, if any, will have on our results of operations or our financial condition. Moreover, we cannot predict how legal, regulatory and social responses to concerns about global climate change will impact our business. Risk Factors Related to Mexico Adverse Economic Conditions in Mexico May Result in a Decrease in Our Sales and Revenues We are a Mexican company with substantially all of our assets located in Mexico and substantially all of our revenues derived from operations in Mexico. As such, our business may be significantly affected by the general conditions of the Mexican economy. Mexico experienced a period of slow growth from 2001 through 2003 primarily as a result of the downturn in the U.S. economy. In 2006, GDP grew by 4.5% and inflation increased to 4.1%; in 2007, GDP grew by 5.6% and inflation decreased to 3.7%; in 2008, GDP grew by 1.3% and inflation increased to 6.5%. In 2009, GDP contracted by 6.5% and inflation increased to 5.3% as a result of the global recession and economic slowdown as Mexico witnessed a contraction in the international flow of goods and services, especially to and from Mexico’s main trading partner, the United States. In 2010, Mexico’s GDP grew by 5.4 percent compared to a plunge of 6.5 percent during 2009 due to the global recession while inflation decreased to 4.32% compared to 5.3% during 2009. Historically, Mexico has experienced high real and nominal interest rates. The interest rates on 28-day Mexican government treasury securities (Certificados de la Tesoreria de la Federación) averaged approximately 7.44% and 7.97% for 2007 and 2008, respectively. As a result of the recession and economic slowdown in Mexico during 2009, Mexico’s central bank lowered its 16 Table of Contents benchmark interest rate (“TIIE”) to 4.50% in an effort to encourage lending and stimulate the economy. As a result, the interest rates on 28-day Mexican government treasury securities decreased to 4.40% during 2010. In the short-term, it is not expected that Mexico’s central bank will increase its benchmark interest rate prior to early 2012. Accordingly, if we incur peso-denominated debt in the future, it could be at high interest rates. As a consequence of the global recession and economic slowdown during 2008, the Mexican economy entered into a recession. In Mexico, GDP contracted 6.5% in 2009. However during 2010, the Mexican economy recovered grew 5.4%. During the first quarter of 2011 the Mexican economy grew by 4.6% compared to the same period in 2010, led by industrial production. Consumer confidence has improved to 89.7 as of April 30, 2011, as compared to an average of 86.3 during 2010. In addition, the unemployment rate has improved to 4.61% as of March 2011, its lowest level since December 2008 when it was 4.32% in the first quarter. As of April 30, 2011, twelve-month accumulated inflation had decreased to 3.36% as compared to 4.27% during the same period in 2010. However, there can be no assurance that the positive trends witnessed in recent months will continue. The Mexican economy’s inability to continue its nascent recovery from the recession could affect our operations to the extent that we are unable to reduce our costs and expenses in response to falling demand. These factors could result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. Fluctuations of the Peso Relative to the U.S. Dollar Could Result in an Increase in Our Cost of Financing and Limit Our Ability to Make Timely Payments on Foreign Currency-Denominated Debt Because substantially all of our revenues are and will continue to be denominated in pesos, if the value of the peso decreases against the U.S. dollar, our cost of financing will increase. Severe depreciation of the peso may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets. This may limit our ability to transfer or convert pesos into U.S. dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our securities and any U.S. dollar-denominated debt that we may incur in the future. While the Mexican government has not restricted the right or ability of Mexican or foreign individuals to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico since 1982, the Mexican government could institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future. Political Events in Mexico May Result in Disruptions to Our Business Operations and Decreases in Our Sales and Revenues The Mexican government exercises significant influence over many aspects of the Mexican economy. In addition, we depend on Mexican government housing policy, especially with regard to the operation of the Mexican Housing Funds, for a large portion of our business. As a result, the actions of the Mexican government concerning the economy and regulating certain industries could have a significant effect on Mexican private sector entities, including Homex, and on market conditions, prices of and returns on Mexican securities. President Calderón may implement significant changes in laws, public policy and/or regulations that could affect Mexico’s political and economic situation, which could adversely affect our business. Social and political instability in Mexico or other adverse social or political developments in or affecting Mexico could affect us and our ability to obtain financing. It is also possible that political uncertainty may adversely affect Mexican financial markets. We cannot provide any assurance that future political developments in Mexico, over which we have no control, will not have an unfavorable impact on our financial position or results of operations. Developments in Other Countries May Result in Decreases in the Price of Our Securities The market value of securities of Mexican companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in these countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. In recent years, for example, prices of both Mexican debt securities and Mexican equity securities dropped substantially as a result of the levels of public debt, weakness of the economies, and other developments in the United States, Russia, Asia, Brazil, Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain, among others. In addition, the direct correlation between economic conditions in Mexico and the United States has sharpened in recent years as a result of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and increased economic activity between the two countries. As a result of the slowing economy in the United States and the uncertainty it could have on the general economic conditions in Mexico and the United States, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, due to recent developments in the international credit markets, capital availability and cost could be significantly affected and could restrict our ability to obtain financing or refinance our existing indebtedness on favorable terms, if at all. 17 Table of Contents We are Subject to Different Corporate Disclosure than U.S. Companies A principal objective of the securities laws of the United States, Mexico and other countries is to promote full and fair disclosure of all material corporate information. However, there may be less or different publicly available information about foreign issuers of securities than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers of listed securities. Mexico has experienced a period of increasing criminal activity and such activities could affect our operations. Recently, Mexico has experienced a period of increasing criminal activity, primarily due to organized crime. The state of Sinaloa, where our corporate offices are located and we conduct a portion of our business, likewise has been affected by an increase in organized crime and violence. These activities, their possible escalation and the violence associated with them may have a negative impact on the business environment in which we operate, and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. Risk Factors Related to Our Common Shares and ADSs Future Issuances of Shares May Result in a Decrease in the Prices of Our ADSs and Common Shares In the future, we may issue additional equity securities for financing and other general corporate purposes, although there is no present intention to do so. Any such sales or the prospect of any such sales could result in a decrease in the prices of our ADSs and common shares. Future Sales of Our Shares by Our Principal Shareholders May Result in a Decrease in the Prices of Our Securities Our principal shareholder, the de Nicolás family, holds 35.1% of our outstanding share capital. Actions by these shareholders with respect to the disposition of the shares they beneficially own, or the perception that such actions might occur, may decrease the trading price of our shares on the Mexican Stock Exchange and the price of the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange. Our principal shareholders are not subject to any contractual restrictions that limit their right to dispose of their common shares. Pre-emptive Rights May be Unavailable to Holders of Our ADSs, Which May Result in a Dilution of ADS Holders’ Equity Interest in Our Company Under Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as part of a capital increase, we must grant pre-emptive rights to our shareholders, giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their pro rata interest unless we issue shares in a public offering. However, we may not be legally permitted to offer ADS holders in the United States the right to exercise pre-emptive rights in any future issuances of shares unless we file a registration statement with the SEC with respect to that future issuance of shares, or the issuance qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, or the “Securities Act”. At the time of any future capital increase, other than through a public offering, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC, the benefits of enabling U.S. holders of ADSs to exercise pre-emptive rights, and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file a registration statement to permit the exercise of mandatory pre-emptive rights. It is possible that we will not file such a registration statement. As a result, the equity interests of ADS holders would be diluted to the extent that ADS holders cannot participate in a future capital increase. Under the terms of the ADSs, you may instruct the depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, to vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs, but only if we request the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the common shares underlying the ADSs and vote such common shares. However, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your common shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send out or receive your voting instructions on time or carry them out in the manner you have instructed. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote. In addition, Mexican law and our bylaws require shareholders to provide evidence of their status as shareholders through INDEVAL’s depositors’ list in order to attend shareholders’ meetings. ADS holders will not be able to meet this requirement and are therefore not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings. ADS holders will also not be permitted to vote the common shares underlying the ADSs directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so without withdrawing the common shares. 18 Table of Contents Minority Shareholders Have Different Rights Against Us, Our Directors, or Our Controlling Shareholders in Mexico Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those afforded to minority shareholders in the United States. The grounds for shareholder derivative actions under Mexican law are extremely limited, which effectively bars most of these kinds of lawsuits in Mexico. Procedures for class-action lawsuits do not exist under Mexican law. Therefore, it may be more difficult for minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us, our directors or our controlling shareholders than it would be for minority shareholders of a U.S. company. It May be Difficult to Enforce Civil Liabilities Against Us or Our Directors, Executive Officers and Controlling Persons We are organized under the laws of Mexico. A majority of our directors, executive officers and controlling persons reside outside the U.S.; all or a significant portion of the assets of our directors, executive officers and controlling persons, and substantially all of our assets, are located outside the U.S.; and certain of the experts named in this annual report also reside outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the U.S. upon these persons or to enforce against them or us in U.S. courts judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. We have been advised by our Mexican counsel, Cortés y Núñez Sarrapy, S.C., that there is doubt as to the enforceability, in original actions in Mexican courts, of liabilities predicated solely on U.S. federal securities laws and as to the enforceability in Mexican courts of judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. 