D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We have sold CGP Investments (Holdings) Limited, a company which held all of our direct and indirect equity and loan interests in our Indian mobile telecommunication operation, which will significantly affect our revenues and profitability and reduce the rate of growth of our business On May 8, 2007, we completed the sale to a wholly owned subsidiary of Vodafone Group Plc, or Vodafone, of our entire interest in CGP Investments (Holdings) Limited, or CGP Investments Holdings, a company which held all of our direct and indirect equity and loan interests in our Indian mobile telecommunications operation, comprising Hutchison Essar Limited, or Hutchison Essar, and its subsidiaries. During 2006, the India operation accounted for approximately 46.3% of our total revenues and 71.9% of our total operating profit, and as of December 31, 2006 it accounted for approximately 78.7% of our total customers. In addition, the India operation had been a major contributor to the growth of our business during the past three years. As a result of this sale, we may not enjoy the same economies of scale and rates of growth that we had before we sold CGP Investments Holdings. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” for more information regarding how the sale of CGP Investments Holdings may affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement that we entered into with Vodafone, there are restrictions on our ability to directly or indirectly carry on, engage in or acquire an economic interest in, any business in India that competes with the telecommunications business of Hutchison Essar for a period of three years from the date of completion of the sale. Under the sale and purchase agreement, we will also be subject to warranty claims by Vodafone. Although we have agreed to allow Vodafone to retain US$352 million from the sale proceeds that it may apply against certain liabilities that it may incur during the ten years following the completion of the sale, we cannot assure you that we will not need to make additional payments and that such additional payments will not adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Following our sale of CGP Investments Holdings to Vodafone, our financial condition and results of operations will be significantly dependent upon our Israel and Hong Kong operations Following our sale of CGP Investments Holdings to Vodafone, Israel and Hong Kong will each represent a much larger percentage of our operations. Excluding results from the India operation, during 2006 our Israel and Hong Kong operations represented approximately 54.7% and 36.8%, respectively, of our total turnover, and 120.5% and 35.7%, respectively, of our total operating profit. Similarly, excluding customers in India, as of December 31, 2006, Israel and Hong Kong accounted for approximately 42.4% and 34.0%, respectively, of our total customers. Changes in demand, economic and political developments, regulatory changes and operational difficulties in either or both of these markets will have a significantly greater effect on our business than when our business included the India operation. If revenue from these two markets declines and we are not able to generate a comparable amount of income from our other market areas, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. We may face risks associated with acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures With the proceeds from the sale of CGP Investments Holdings, we intend to seek opportunities in telecoms markets that we believe can create long-term value for our shareholders. This may result in us pursuing strategic acquisitions or investments as appropriate opportunities arise. We may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates. Even if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not complete those transactions on commercially acceptable terms or on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, we may incur indebtedness to pay for any acquisition or investment. Such acquisitions and investments involve other risks, such as: • the diversion of our management's attention and other resources from other business concerns; • expenses, delays and difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company; • not realizing the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment; • adversely affecting our financial condition due to the timing of the acquisition or investment; and • potentially acquiring undisclosed or underestimated liabilities If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents We face significant competition in our markets, which could affect current and potential customers, revenues and profitability We face significant competition in our markets. In particular, we expect competition among providers of mobile telecommunications services, including new entrants (such as mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, which are providers of mobile telecommunications services that do not own their own allocation of spectrum), to continue to drive prices for services and handsets (which we subsidize in some markets) lower. In addition, number portability requirements, which enable customers to switch their providers of mobile telecommunications services without changing their mobile phone numbers, have been introduced in some of the markets in which we operate and will likely be introduced in other markets in the future. In particular, in Israel a mobile number portability plan was required to be implemented by September 2006. At present, however, none of the mobile telecommunications operators in Israel, including Partner Communications Company Ltd., or Partner, our mobile telecommunications operator in Israel, has implemented mobile number portability yet despite efforts to introduce the requisite technology and to coordinate the transition to number portability by that date. These developments could lead to greater movement of customers among providers of mobile telecommunications services, known as churn, which could increase our marketing, distribution and administrative costs, slow growth in the number of our customers and reduce our revenues. Our market position will also depend on effective marketing initiatives and our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services, pricing strategies by competitors and changes in consumer preferences and economic, political and social conditions in the countries in which we operate. Any failure by us to compete effectively, including in terms of pricing of services, anticipating and developing new technologies and services, acquisition of new customers and retention of existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. We may not realize the benefits we expect from our capital expenditures, which may adversely impact our business We have made significant capital expenditures on our network infrastructure and information technology systems to provide the services we offer. Our capital expenditures were HK$4,658 million in 2004, HK$4,718 million in 2005 and HK$9,119 million (US$1,172 million) in 2006, a significant majority of which were comprised of expenditures on telecommunications and network equipment. In order to continue to develop our business and offer new services, we intend to continue to invest in networks in new service areas as well as new technologies, which we expect will result in substantial capital expenditures. As a result of our sale of CGP Investments Holdings, we will no longer need to make any capital expenditure in India. Accordingly, our capital expenditure is expected to decrease in 2007 to an anticipated level of HK$6,000 million (US$771 million) to HK$7,000 million (US$900 million), more than half of which we expect to be used for network build-out in our new operations in Indonesia and Vietnam. We may not be successful in marketing these new services to consumers, thus impairing the return from our expenditures. We cannot assure you that services enabled by new technologies we implement will generate an acceptable rate of return. In addition, we face the risk of unforeseen complications in the deployment of new service areas and new technologies, and we cannot assure you that our estimate of the necessary capital expenditure will not be exceeded. If we do not realize the anticipated benefits of our capital expenditures, or if our required expenditures exceed our estimates, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents We have a history of losses and negative cash flows, which may continue and adversely affect our ability to meet our business and growth objectives We have incurred losses and recorded negative cash flows in recent years. Although we had a profit attributable to equity holders of HK$201 million (US$26 million) in 2006, we had a loss attributable to equity holders of HK$768 million in 2005 and HK$30 million in 2004. The loss in 2004 was after a one-time profit of HK$1,300 million from the placement of shares in Hutchison Global Communications Holdings Limited, or Hutchison Global Communications Holdings, as further described in “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Results of Operations—Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004—Group Results.” Our mobile telecommunication operations in Hong Kong returned to operating profit in 2006 after operating losses in 2004 and 2005, while we have experienced operating losses in our Thailand operation throughout its history, and we expect our new operations in Indonesia and Vietnam to be loss-making in 2007. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated loss of HK$6,915 million (US$889 million). It is possible that we will record losses in some future periods, and we cannot assure you that our losses will not increase in the future or, in the event that we do have profits, that we will be able to sustain our operating profits. We refer you to “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” for more information regarding our financial condition and results of operations. We require substantial amounts of capital for our business operations, and if we fail to obtain needed capital, or there are restrictions on our ability to finance our operating companies, it may materially and adversely affect our growth prospects and future profitability We require substantial capital to build, maintain and operate our telecommunications networks. We may also potentially require significant amounts of capital to acquire and invest in other telecommunications companies and spectrum rights. To the extent these expenditures exceed our cash resources, we will be required to seek additional debt or equity financing. Our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable commercial terms will depend on a number of factors, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by telecommunications companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in the markets where we operate. Any new borrowings could include terms that restrict our financial flexibility, including the amount of debt we may incur in the future, or may restrict our ability to manage our business as we had intended. If we are unable to renew existing funding or obtain additional funding in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, our growth prospects, competitive position and future profitability could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, our operating companies may require financing or guarantees from us to help fund their capital expenditures and working capital requirements. We may also face legal or administrative restrictions on our ability to finance operations. For example, in December 2006, the central bank of Thailand implemented an unremunerated reserve requirement on short-term capital inflows, under which financial institutions in Thailand are now required to withhold 30% of foreign currencies bought or exchanged against the Thai baht. Restrictions such as this can adversely affect our ability to provide funding to our operating companies. We cannot assure you that limitations on our ability to convert or transfer currencies to our operating companies would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. 9 Table of Contents Our major shareholders may take actions that are not in, or may conflict with, our other shareholders’ best interests Our largest shareholder is Hutchison Whampoa Limited, or Hutchison Whampoa, which as of June 15, 2007 held approximately 50.0% of our shares. In addition, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited, or Cheung Kong Holdings, which as of the same date held 49.97% of Hutchison Whampoa, directly held 1.1% of our shares through its wholly owned subsidiaries. Although Cheung Kong Holdings has, pursuant to Rule 13d-4 under the Exchange Act, expressly disclaimed beneficial ownership of those of our shares held by Hutchison Whampoa, the combined shareholding of Hutchison Whampoa and Cheung Kong Holdings exceeds 50%. Our other major shareholder is Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E., or Orascom Holding, which as of June 15, 2007 held approximately 19.2% of our shares. Individually, Hutchison Whampoa and Orascom Holding are each able to influence our business through their ability to significantly affect the outcome of matters put before shareholders for approval and through their respective representatives on our board of directors. Together, their combined shareholding exceeds 68%, which gives them the ability to control actions that require majority shareholders’ approval. Neither shareholder is obligated to exercise its rights as a shareholder in our best interests or the best interests of our other shareholders. Both major shareholders may engage in activities that conflict with such interests. We have entered into a non-competition agreement with Hutchison Whampoa that restricts Hutchison Whampoa from competing with us in certain markets. This agreement will terminate if Hutchison Whampoa’s control of our shares falls below certain specified thresholds. See “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions with Hutchison Whampoa—Non-competition Agreement” for a discussion of the terms of the non-competition agreement. Orascom Holding is engaged in the telecommunications business in numerous countries and may compete directly or indirectly with us in the future. Orascom Holding has not entered into any non-competition agreement with us. If the interests of either of our major shareholder conflicts with the interests of our other shareholders, or if either major shareholder chooses to cause our business to pursue strategic objectives that conflict with the interests of our other shareholders, those other shareholders could be disadvantaged by the actions that Hutchison Whampoa, Orascom Holding, or the two major shareholders together, chooses to pursue. We cannot assure you that any conflict of interests and overlap of business activities and operations between Hutchison Whampoa or Orascom Holding, on the one hand, and us on the other hand, will not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, certain adverse events may occur if Hutchison Whampoa’s equity interest in our company falls below specified thresholds, which is an event that would be beyond our control. For example, under a HK$6 billion three-year senior secured revolving credit facility that we entered into in May 2005, it is a mandatory repayment event if Hutchison Whampoa ceases to own, directly or indirectly through its subsidiaries, at least 40% of our issued voting share capital. In addition, Hutchison Whampoa has the right to terminate brand license agreements that it has entered into with our operating companies if its indirect interest in those licensee operating companies falls below specified thresholds. We cannot assure you that if the relevant shareholding thresholds are breached that Hutchison Whampoa would not exercise these rights and that such an exercise will not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Similarly, Hutchison Whampoa has the right to terminate shared services that it provides to us if its indirect interest in us falls below specified thresholds, and it may also terminate shared services that it provides to any of our subsidiaries if we cease to consolidate that subsidiary in our consolidated financial statements. In addition, we currently benefit from our ongoing relationship with Hutchison Whampoa and its other subsidiaries and affiliates through their global reach and relationships. We cannot assure you that Hutchison Whampoa will continue to allow us to have access to such benefits in the future. We do not own all of the intellectual property rights necessary to operate our business, and if any of these intellectual property rights become unavailable to us, we could face disruptions in our operations We do not own all of the intellectual property rights in the brand names that we use to market our services. We have arrangements with the Hutchison Whampoa group pursuant to which we have rights to use “ 3 ” , “Hutch” and “ Hutchison Telecom” and other trademarks that include the word “ Hutchison” or derivations thereof royalty-free until the relevant change of control provisions as agreed between the relevant members of our group and the Hutchison Whampoa group are triggered. We use the 3 brand in Hong Kong, Macau and Indonesia, and the Hutch brand in Thailand and Sri Lanka. We also have been granted licenses to use certain trademarks from non-Hutchison Whampoa entities, notably the “ Orange” brand, which we license from a subsidiary of Orange SA. We use the Orange brand for our mobile telecommunications operations in Israel. In addition, the “HT Mobile” trademark, which is used by our Vietnam operation, is owned by Hanoi Telecommunications Joint Stock Company, our partner in Vietnam. 10 Table of Contents Hutchison Whampoa has the right to terminate its brand license agreements with our operating companies if its indirect interest in those licensee operating companies falls below specified thresholds. If these ownership thresholds are breached, which is an event that would be beyond our control, or if we breach the terms of our licenses with non-Hutchison Whampoa entities, we may have to renegotiate the terms of these trademark arrangements and/or pay royalties for the use of the relevant trademarks and domain names, or could lose the use of such trademarks and domain names altogether. We cannot assure you that the fees and terms of use will be commercially acceptable to us if we have to renegotiate these arrangements. If any of the brands under which we operate become unavailable to us, we could face disruptions in our operations and, as a consequence, our financial condition and the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected due to the importance of the trademarks and domain names to the branding of our business operations. The ability of our operating companies to generate earnings is important to our business, and any decline in the earnings of our operating companies or restrictions on our ability to transfer or convert currencies from the countries in which our operating companies are located could materially and adversely affect our earnings, cashflow and operational flexibility We currently conduct all our operations through our operating companies. Most of our assets are held by, and substantially all of our earnings and cash flows are attributable to, our operating companies. Our sources of cash flows include dividends paid to us by our operating companies and shareholder loans repaid to us by our operating companies. If earnings from our operating companies were to decline or if our operating companies were unable to repay the shareholder loans, our earnings and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, disruption of the international foreign exchange markets may limit our ability to transfer or to convert currencies from the countries in which our operating companies are located into Hong Kong dollars and other currencies. Furthermore, the governments of certain countries in which we operate have instituted, and other countries may in the future institute, restrictive exchange rate policies that limit or restrict our ability to convert currencies into their respective currencies or to convert their respective currencies into other currencies or to transfer other currencies out of their jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that currency fluctuations or limitations on our ability to convert or transfer currencies would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. As a result of statutory or regulatory restrictions on foreign ownership, we do not own the majority of the voting stock in all of our operating companies and, as a result, we do not have complete control of these companies, which may limit our ability to cause these operating companies to take actions we believe would be beneficial to our shareholders Governmental policy and/or regulations in some countries in which we currently operate or may operate in the future limit the nature and extent of our investments in those countries. For example, we may not own 50% or more of the equity of any company engaged in the provision of certain restricted services, which include telecommunications services, in Thailand. Moreover, in Vietnam, foreign ownership of an entity that operates a telecommunications network is prohibited, as a result of which we conduct our operations there through a business cooperation contract with a Vietnamese partner that owns the network. As a result, our ownership interests in our operating companies in these countries do not in every instance provide us with the ability to control all actions that require shareholder approval and our ability to manage such operating companies may be hindered. Although we may participate in the management of such operating companies, we may not have the ability to prevent them from engaging in activities or pursuing strategic objectives that may conflict with our interests or overall strategic objectives. See “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Operating companies review—Thailand—Ownership” and “—Vietnam—Ownership.” We rely upon an exemption to avoid being regulated as an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940 and may be required to take actions that are inconsistent with our business interests or objectives if we are no longer able to rely on that exemption The U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act, provides that a company is an investment company if, among other things, (i) more than 40% of the value of the company’s total assets is represented by investment securities, which, under the applicable definition, includes minority equity investments, or (ii) more than 50% of the value of the company’s total assets is represented by securities and/or cash. The 1940 Act contains substantive regulations with respect to investment companies, including restrictions on their capital structure, operations and transactions with affiliates, that would be incompatible with our operations. 11 Table of Contents As the result of the receipt of cash proceeds from our sale of CGP Investments Holdings to Vodafone, we may have greater difficulty in avoiding being classified as an investment company. We believe that we would qualify for a one-year safe harbor exemption from classification as an investment company available under the 1940 Act for companies that are “transient” investment companies if we were required to rely upon the exemption. During this one-year period, we must reduce our holdings of cash and/or securities, increase our holdings of assets that are not investment securities or do both such things. These actions could affect our ability to implement our business strategy or cause us to suffer losses. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in reducing our holdings of cash and securities or increasing our holdings of assets that are not investment securities. If we need to rely on the one-year safe harbor exemption, we will not be able to utilize the exemption for a period of two years after the one-year exemption. If we were deemed to be an investment company in the future, we would, among other things, effectively be precluded from making public offerings of our securities in the United States. This could impede our ability to raise additional capital or to implement our business plan. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes and U.S. holders of our shares may be subject to special rules regarding taxation because of our PFIC status A non-U.S. corporation is classified as a PFIC if: (i) 75 percent or more of its gross income (including its pro rata share of gross income of any corporation of which it is considered to own 25 percent or more of the shares by value) in a taxable year is passive income, or (ii) 50 percent or more of its assets by value (including its pro rata interest in the assets of any company of which it is considered to own 25 percent or more of the shares by value) produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. The receipt of the cash proceeds from our sale of CGP Investments Holdings to Vodafone may cause the average value of our assets producing passive income to equal or exceed 50% for our 2007 and/or 2008 taxable years. The determination of PFIC status is made on an annual basis, and will depend on, among other factors, how we use the sale proceeds, when such use of the sale proceeds occurs, and, if necessary, the availability of a special relief provision under Section 1298(b)(3) of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, for companies that temporarily hold substantial passive assets as a result of the disposition of an active trade or business, also known as the change of business exception. To qualify for the change of business exception, which provides relief only for the year of disposition, we would need to satisfy the following conditions: (i) we have never previously been a PFIC; (ii) "substantially all" of the passive income for the year is attributable to proceeds from the disposition of one or more "active trades or businesses", as those terms are used and interpreted under the Code; and (iii) we are not a PFIC for either of the next two taxable years. We intend to seek guidance from the US Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, regarding the applicability of the change of business exception to our sale of CGP Investments Holdings in 2007. We cannot assure you that we will receive favorable guidance from the IRS. We cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for 2007 or any subsequent taxable year. If we are required to rely on the change of business exception for 2007, assuming that we are eligible to rely upon it, then we will need to reduce our holdings of assets generating passive income, increase the average value of our non-passive assets, or do both such things so that less than 50% of the average value of our total assets in 2008 and 2009 are passive. These actions could affect our ability to implement our business strategy or cause us to suffer losses. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in reducing our holdings of passive assets or increasing our holdings of non-passive assets. If we are found to be a PFIC for 2008 or 2009, then we would be retroactively ineligible for the change of business exception, but may not know and will not be able to inform you of such determination until 2009 or 2010. If we are a PFIC, U.S. shareholders will be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences with respect to, among others, (i) the tax rates for dividends, (ii) “excess distributions” and (iii) gains realized on the sale or other disposition of shares. The consequences of our being a PFIC are described further in “Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Markets Where We Operate The application of several aspects of regulations and policies on foreign ownership may be unclear, and changes in the regulations or policies, or their application or interpretation, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations The application of several aspects of regulations and policies on foreign ownership in the markets in which we operate may be unclear. In addition, the regulators in the countries such as Israel, Thailand and Vietnam, in which we are subject to foreign ownership restrictions, may re-evaluate foreign ownership restrictions and other regulations applicable to the telecommunications and other sectors. In January 2007, the Thai Cabinet approved in principle a bill to amend certain provisions of the existing Foreign Business Act, 1999 to, among other things, prevent foreigners from engaging in a restricted business, such as the telecommunications business, through preference share structures that allow them to control the voting rights of more than half of the total votes of that company even though they have invested in less than half of the registered capital of that company. For a further description of the proposed amendment and how it could affect us, see “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation—Thailand.” These changes of law, regulation or policy, or clarifications of, or changes in, the application or interpretation of existing or proposed laws, regulations or policies could require us to remove or amend our existing arrangements and reduce our voting and/or economic interests in the relevant companies. Any such removal, amendment or reduction could affect our ability to implement our business strategy in the affected countries. Further, we do not have complete control over whether those of our operating companies that are subject to foreign ownership restrictions are compliant with such restrictions. Compliance may be affected by whether other shareholders in such operating companies are domestic or foreign as determined in accordance with the applicable rules, regulations or license conditions. If foreign ownership restrictions are determined to have been violated, monetary and criminal penalties could be imposed, and relevant licenses or agreements could be cancelled. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. Depreciation or fluctuation of the currencies in which we conduct operations relative to the Hong Kong dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations If the currencies of various countries in which we conduct our operations fluctuate relative to the Hong Kong dollar, which we use as our reporting currency in our consolidated accounts, these fluctuations may result in exchange losses or gains and increases or reductions in our debt after translation into Hong Kong dollars. In 2006, we recorded a net exchange gain of HK$9 million (US$1.2 million) compared to a net exchange loss of HK$18 million in 2005 and a gain of HK$79 million in 2004. Partner is exposed to, and currently engaged in, a variety of legal proceedings, including class action lawsuits. Due to the legal environment of Israel and the scope and magnitude of Partner’s operations, Partner is subject to the risk of a large number of lawsuits, including class action suits by consumers which may be costly to defend and which may result in significant judgments against it. The Israeli Class Actions Law, 2006 and the 2005 amendment to the Israeli Consumer Protection Law, 1981, include provisions that expand the causes of action for which a class of litigants may bring suit, including with regard to any damages allegedly incurred prior to the effective date of these laws. These laws have reduced the requirements for certification of a class action lawsuit and the qualifications required to be a lead plaintiff in a class action lawsuit. These laws may increase the number of requests for approval of class actions and the number of class action suits against Partners, and may increase Partner’s legal exposure and legal costs in defending against such suits, which as a result may materially and adversely affect our financial results. Currently, Partner is engaged in a number of purported class action suits as a defendant, some of which are for substantial amounts. 13 Table of Contents Volatility in social, political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate may adversely affect our business. Many of our operating companies and a substantial portion of our total assets are located in countries, including Israel, Indonesia, Thailand and Sri Lanka, that have experienced social, political and economic volatility. For example, Israel was engaged in an armed conflict in July and August 2006 with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and which disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Ongoing violence between Israel and its Arab neighbors and Palestinians may have a material adverse effect on the Israeli economy, in general, and on the business, financial condition or results of operations of our Israeli business. During an emergency in Israel, including a major communications crisis in Israel’s national communications network, a natural disaster, or a special security situation, control of our network in Israel may be assumed by a lawfully authorized person in order to protect the security of the State of Israel or to ensure the provision of necessary services to the Israeli public. During such circumstances, the Israeli government also has the right to withdraw temporarily some of the spectrum granted to our Israeli business. Furthermore, in September 2006, the Thai army staged a coup against the then-government, and in Sri Lanka there has been a sharp escalation in violence since late 2005 in the conflict between the Sri Lankan government and Tamil separatists. Developments in these countries and other countries in which we operate in the future, including uncertainties arising from economic liberalization and deregulation policies, future economic crises, outbreaks of hostility and political instability, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Telecommunications Industry Generally The telecommunications industry is a highly regulated industry in which regulators’ decisions may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Our business is highly regulated. In each of the countries in which we operate, we are subject to government regulation regarding licenses, competition, frequency allocation and costs and arrangements pertaining to interconnection and leased lines. Our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations or government policy affecting our business activities. For example, we are subject to regulations on our tariff structures in some jurisdictions where we operate. We cannot predict with accuracy or assure you on the timing, likelihood or likely magnitude of any future tariff adjustments generally or the extent of any potential impact such tariff adjustments would have on our business. We cannot assure you that our business, financial condition and the results of our operations will not be materially and adversely affected by any government-mandated tariff adjustments in the future. In March 2005, the Israeli Communications Law (Telecommunications and Broadcasting), 1982, or the Telecommunications Law, was amended to require the Israeli Minister of Communications to implement a mobile number portability plan in Israel and, separately, a fixed number portability plan by September 2006. The number portability plan would permit customers in Israel to change their service provider to another network operator while retaining the same telephone number. Once implemented, we anticipate that number portability will provide network operators with the opportunity to transfer other operators’ customers to their network, which will likely increase churn rates and may increase customer acquisition and retention costs. Despite efforts to introduce the requisite technology and to coordinate the transition to number portability by September 2006, at present none of the cellular or fixed-line operators in Israel has implemented number portability. Partner and two other mobile telecommunications operators have filed a petition with the Israeli High Court of Justice requesting that the court order the Government of Israel and the Ministry of Communications to show cause for failing to amend the Telecommunications Law in order to postpone the number portability implementation deadline. The justifications for the petition include Partner's inability to comply with the implementation timeline due to the unique technological environment of the Israeli cellular market, the complex requirements of the Israeli regulator and the absence of a detailed plan as was originally contemplated by the law. Consequently, since September 2006, all relevant telecommunications license holders, including Partner, face the risk of claims for violating the Telecommunications Law and the terms of the general license without having the ability to comply with the law or the license. Individual customers have sought to intervene in the petition and have also filed a purported class action against Partner and other mobile and fixed-line operators based on their alleged failure to comply with the number portability requirements. In May 2007 the Ministry of Communications of Israel announced that the latest implementation date for number portability would be December 1, 2007. The Ministry of Communications has, despite announcing the later date, stated that it is nonetheless considering imposing monetary sanctions on relevant telecommunication license holders, including Partner, in accordance with the Telecommunications Law for allegedly violating their obligations to implement number portability by September 2006. The Ministry of Communications of Israel is evaluating the cost of roaming and may introduce new regulations that would limit fees charged by Israeli cellular companies for calls made by foreign network operators’ customers while in Israel using Partner's network as well as for calls made by Partner's customers using their handsets abroad. Because Partner considers roaming charges to be a significant source of revenue, such regulatory limits could adversely affect the company's revenues. 14 Table of Contents In November 2006, Partner's license was amended in a manner that obligates it as of January 2007 to provide, in all calls made to its customers that are directed to voicemail, an announcement that the call is being directed to voicemail. Partner is not allowed to charge for a call terminated up to one second after the announcement is made. Such regulation has adversely affected its financial results. In some cases, regulators may also be competitors. While regulators may have been granted powers to ensure a level playing field among the various mobile telecommunications operators, we cannot assure you that the relevant government will ensure a level playing field between government-owned companies and private operators. Required licenses and permits may be difficult to obtain in those countries where we operate a network, and once obtained may be amended or revoked or may not be renewed Our operation of telecommunications networks and the provision of related services are regulated to varying degrees by national, state, regional or local governmental and/or regulatory authorities. Our operating licenses specify the services we can offer and the frequency spectrum we can utilize for mobile operations. These licenses are subject to review, interpretation, modification or termination by the relevant authorities. We cannot assure you that the relevant authorities will not take actions that could materially and adversely affect us. Our operating licenses are generally renewable upon expiration. However, we cannot assure you that they will be renewed or that any renewal on new terms will be commercially acceptable to us. If we fail to renew any of our licenses, we may lose the ability to continue to operate the affected business, and the realizable value of our relevant network infrastructure and related assets may be materially and adversely affected. The rules of some government regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over our operations require us to meet specified network build-out requirements and schedules. In addition, our licenses typically require satisfaction of various obligations, including minimum specified quality, service, coverage criteria and capital investment. Failure to comply with these obligations could result in the imposition of fines or the revocation or forfeiture of the license for that area. Furthermore, the need to meet scheduled deadlines may cause us to expend more resources than otherwise budgeted for a particular network build-out. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully comply with the terms and conditions of these licenses and permits. In particular, some of our operations have been fined for failure to comply with certain of these terms and conditions within the specified time frame. The deployment of our networks requires various approvals or permits from national, state, regional or local governmental and/or regulatory authorities, particularly in relation to establishing cell sites. These approvals and permits may include building, construction and environmental permits, antenna and mast deployment approvals and other various planning permissions. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in obtaining some of these approvals and permits. For example, our Israeli business, like its competitors, has experienced difficulties in obtaining some consents and permits, especially those from local building authorities. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 20% of our antenna sites in Israel were operating without local building permits or applicable exemptions. Failure to obtain cell sites could have an adverse effect on the extent, quality and capacity of our network coverage and on our ability to continue to market our products and services effectively. Our inability to resolve these issues in a timely manner could also prevent us from achieving or maintaining the network coverage and quality requirements contained in our license. We are dependent on interconnection with our competitors’ networks and associated infrastructure as well as roaming arrangements with other telecommunications operators Our ability to provide commercially viable mobile and fixed-line telecommunications services depends, in part, upon our interconnection arrangements with other telecommunications operators. In particular, we are dependent on interconnection with our competitors’ mobile and fixed-line networks and associated infrastructure for the successful operation of our business. The framework by which interconnection charges are made in certain jurisdictions where we operate are currently being reviewed by the relevant government authorities. Any change to the framework or the basis upon which interconnection charges are made is likely to require the renegotiation of our interconnection agreements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our interconnection agreements on terms that are commercially acceptable to us or that any material increase in the interconnection expenses would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. Our operating companies are also dependent upon roaming agreements with other telecommunications operators as a source of revenues when the other telecommunications operators’ customers roam on our networks. If these roaming agreements were to terminate, or if the other telecommunications operators were to deploy incompatible technologies, our roaming revenues and profits may be materially reduced. 15 Table of Contents Our allocated spectrum may be insufficient for the expansion of our mobile telecommunications business The operation of our mobile telecommunications networks is limited by the amount of spectrum allocated to us in the countries where we operate. Allocation of spectrum is determined by the relevant governmental authorities in those countries. In determining spectrum allocation, governmental authorities generally seek to ensure choice of services, efficient use of spectrum and continuity of customer service while maintaining technology neutrality and providing a stable investment environment. Although we believe that our current spectrum allocation is sufficient for expected customer growth going forward, our future profitability may be materially and adversely affected if our allocated spectrum proves inadequate in the future for the expansion of our mobile telecommunications business. Concerns about health risks relating to the use of mobile handsets may adversely affect our prospects Media and other reports have linked radio frequency emissions from mobile handsets to various health concerns, including cancer, and to interference with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Although we do not know of any definitive studies showing that radio frequency emissions cause health problems, concerns over radio frequency emissions may discourage the use of mobile handsets in the countries in which we conduct business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various government authorities in the markets in which we operate could also increase regulation of mobile handsets and base stations as a result of these concerns. In addition, lawsuits have been filed in the United States against certain participants in the telecommunications industry alleging various adverse health consequences as a result of mobile handset usage, and we may be subject to similar litigation in the future. Research and studies are ongoing, and we cannot assure you that further research and studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency emissions and health concerns. Any negative findings in these studies could adversely affect the use of mobile handsets and, as a result, our future financial performance. Risks Relating to Our ADSs and Ordinary Shares Our board of directors may suspend voting rights attaching to some shares as necessary to avoid any of our subsidiaries or affiliates being in breach or default Our articles of association provide that if any person directly or indirectly has or acquires an interest in a number of our shares that would or may, in the opinion of our directors, require a review or approval under, or which would or may result in any of our subsidiaries or affiliates (being any entity in which we directly or indirectly hold 5% or more of the issued share capital) being in breach or in default of, any applicable law, regulation or license, permit, consent or privilege held or enjoyed by any such subsidiary or affiliate, or any requirement of any governmental or regulatory authority, our directors have the discretion to suspend the shareholder’s right to exercise the voting rights attaching to the affected shares in which the shareholder has an interest in respect of any resolution at any general meeting of our company. Our directors also have the ability to restrict the director(s) appointed by or at the direction of that shareholder, if any, to our board of directors from voting on any resolution or matter that concerns the activities of any affected entity or appointment of a director or the managing director of any affected entity. See “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—Rights, Preferences, Restrictions Attaching to Shares and Changing the Rights of Shareholders—Voting Rights.” It may be more difficult for you to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, than if we were a corporation incorporated in the United States We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct substantially all of our operations outside of the United States. In addition, substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Moreover, most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors and actions by minority shareholders are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law in the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority in a court in the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands law in this area may not be as established and may differ from provisions under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may face different considerations in protecting their interests in actions against the management, directors or our major shareholder than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring or enforce an action against us or against these individuals in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. In particular, the Cayman Islands courts are unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, to impose liabilities against us based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. 16 Table of Contents Our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs As a holder of our ADSs, you may instruct the depositary of your ADSs to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs but only if we ask the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw our ordinary shares underlying the ADSs you hold. However, you may not know about the meeting far enough in advance to withdraw those ordinary shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote, and there may be nothing you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless we notify the depositary that: • we do not wish to receive a discretionary proxy; • we think there is substantial shareholder opposition to the particular question; or • we think the particular question would have a material adverse impact on our shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company, which could adversely affect your interests. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares represented by ADSs or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to holders of ADSs The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs Your ADSs, represented by ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of your ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 17 Table of Contents 