D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Our net income will depend in large part on the level of global interest rates and any disposition of our cash balances, as well as the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other major currencies. We currently maintain a significant level of cash, which is currently invested in floating rate time deposits. As a result, a significant part of our income is expected to be interest income from our cash. Our investments in floating rate instruments will vary with global interest rates, especially with the U.S. dollar London interbank offered rate, or LIBOR. In addition, substantially all our deposits are denominated in U.S. dollars. Since 1984, the exchange rate for the Hong Kong dollar has been pegged to the value of the U.S. dollar; but there is no guarantee that the peg will continue. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, including continued depreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to other major currencies, could adversely affect the value of our cash balances. Although we may choose to hedge our foreign currency risk, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Our interest income was HK$1,619 million (US$207.6 million) in 2007, however, we intend to use all or a significant portion of our current cash balance to invest in assets or to expand our business, which would result in significantly lower interest income. In addition, capital investments in existing or new markets may not immediately produce operating income, and we cannot assure you that any such investment would be successful. As a result, the disposition of our cash balances could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. See “—We may face risks associated with acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures.” 7 Table of Contents Following our sale of CGP Investments Holdings to Vodafone, our financial condition and results of operations are significantly dependent upon our Israel and Hong Kong operations Following our sale of CGP Investments (Holdings) Limited, or CGP Investments Holdings, to Vodafone in May 2007, our Israel and Hong Kong operations represent a high percentage of our continuing operations. Excluding discontinued operations, our Israel and Hong Kong operations represented approximately 57.1% and 35.3%, respectively, of our total turnover and 213.1% and 67.1%, respectively, of our total operating profit before impairment charges and profit on disposal of investments and others for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our Israel and Hong Kong operations accounted for approximately 28.9% and 24.5%, respectively, of our total customers as at December 31, 2007. Changes in demand, economic and political developments, regulatory changes and operational difficulties in either or both of these markets will have a significantly greater effect on our results than when our results included the India operations. If our turnover from these two markets declines and we are not able to generate a comparable amount of income from our other market areas, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. We may face risks associated with acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures With the cash balance arising from the sale of CGP Investments Holdings, we intend to seek opportunities in telecoms markets that we believe can create long-term value for our shareholders. This may result in us pursuing strategic acquisitions or investments as appropriate opportunities arise. We may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates. Even if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not complete those transactions on commercially acceptable terms or on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, we may incur indebtedness to pay for any acquisition or investment. Such acquisitions and investments involve other risks, such as: • the diversion of our management’s attention and other resources from other business concerns; • expenses, delays and difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, technologies, products and personnel of the acquired company; • not realizing the anticipated benefits of any acquisition or investment; • adversely affecting our financial condition due to the timing of the acquisition or investment; and • potentially acquiring undisclosed or underestimated liabilities. If any of these risks are realized, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may acquire investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. A change in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar may have an adverse impact on returns on any of these non-U.S. dollar denominated investments. Although we may choose to hedge our foreign currency risk, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Investments in foreign countries also subject us to risks of multiple and conflicting laws and regulations and political and economic instability abroad, which could adversely affect our return on these investments. 8 Table of Contents We face significant competition in our markets, which could affect current and potential customers, revenues and profitability We face significant competition in our markets. In particular, we expect competition among providers of mobile telecommunications services, including new entrants (such as mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, which are providers of mobile telecommunications services that do not own their own allocation of spectrum), to continue to drive prices lower for services and handsets (which we subsidize in some markets). In addition, number portability requirements, which enable customers to switch their providers of mobile telecommunications services without changing their mobile phone numbers, have been introduced in some of the markets in which we operate, including our largest markets of Hong Kong and Israel, and may be introduced in other markets in the future. These developments could lead to greater movement of customers among providers of mobile telecommunications services, known as churn, which could increase our marketing, distribution and administrative costs, slow growth in the number of our customers and reduce our revenues. Our market position will also depend on effective marketing initiatives and our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services, pricing strategies by competitors and changes in consumer preferences and economic, political and social conditions in the countries in which we operate. Any failure by us to compete effectively, including in terms of pricing of services, anticipating and developing new technologies and services, acquisition of new customers and retention of existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. We may have financial exposure as a result of warranty or indemnity obligations assumed in connection with the sale of CGP Investments Holdings We may be subject to claims or have to make payments as a result of warranty or indemnity obligations assumed in connection with the sale of interests relating to CGP Investments Holdings to Vodafone. Furthermore, the Indian tax authorities may consider the gain arising from this sale to be taxable in India. The Indian tax authorities have initiated an attempt to investigate certain aspects of such sale, focusing on whether Vodafone should have withheld tax from the acquisition proceeds. Vodafone has taken court action in India to quash such attempt. We believe that the sale is not taxable in India and therefore neither is any Indian tax payable by us nor was Vodafone required to withhold any Indian tax. Accordingly, we have not provided for any claims or Indian tax liabilities in connection with the sale. However, we cannot assure you what the final outcome will be. If we eventually make any such payments or suffer any Indian tax on this sale, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial position. We may not realize the benefits we expect from our capital expenditures, which may adversely impact our business We have made significant capital expenditures on our network infrastructure and information technology systems to provide the services we offer. Our capital expenditures on continuing operations were HK$3,930 million in 2006 and HK$5,436 million (US$697.1 million) in 2007, a significant majority of which were comprised of expenditures on telecommunications and network equipment. In order to continue to develop our business and offer new services, we intend to continue to invest in networks in new service areas as well as new technologies, which we expect will result in substantial capital expenditures. Our estimated capital expenditure for 2008 is HK$7,000 million (US$897.6 million), approximately two-thirds of which we expect to be used for network build-out in our operations in Indonesia and Vietnam. 9 Table of Contents We may not be successful in marketing these new services to consumers, thus impairing the return from our expenditures. We cannot assure you that services enabled by new technologies we implement will generate an acceptable rate of return. In addition, we face the risk of unforeseen complications in the deployment of new service areas and new technologies, and we cannot assure you that our estimate of the necessary capital expenditure will not be exceeded. If we do not realize the anticipated benefits of our capital expenditures, or if our required expenditures exceed our estimates, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Any asset impairment could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations We have non-current assets such as property, plant and equipment, other intangible assets, goodwill and investments in associates, and we are required to review these assets for impairment at the end of each financial year. This review is made with reference to the recoverable amounts in respect of those assets. The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use. If the value of an asset as reflected in our balance sheet is higher than its recoverable amount, we must make an asset impairment charge to our income statement. For example, in light of the continuous losses incurred in our operations in Thailand and our cash flow forecasts for this segment that have indicated that certain non-current assets would not be recoverable from future operating cash flow of the current business, we recognized an impairment charge of HK$3,854 million (US$494.2 million) in our income statement for 2007 based on the recoverability test related to non-current assets in accordance with the provisions of IAS 36 “Impairment of Assets.” See Note 11 to our financial statements. In addition, during the first half of 2007, we launched our Vietnam operations by using code division multiple access, or CDMA, technology. Due to intensified competition in the market, our Vietnam operations have had fewer customer activations than expected. In light of the lower than expected customer activations and unfavorable business prospect for CDMA services, we applied to and, on March 8, 2008, received approval from The People’s Committee of Hanoi City to permit us to switch our operating spectrum from CDMA to a GSM service. Upon the completion of our migration to GSM technology in Vietnam, we will discontinue the use of certain of our CDMA-based network equipment. We are in the process of evaluating the carrying value of the discontinued assets for impairment. The recoverable amount of an asset depends on the prevailing market conditions at the time of the review, the nature of the asset, its fair value and estimated future cash flows that are expected to be derived from the asset. The discount rate used in this review reflects our current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. As at December 31, 2007, our non-current assets that are subject to asset impairment review amounted to approximately HK$34,174 million, representing 44.7% of our total assets. If we make additional acquisitions, it is likely that we will record additional assets on our books that would be subject to impairment review. Any reduction in the recoverable amount of an asset below its carrying value, whether due to a weak economic environment, challenging market conditions, asset or portfolio sale decisions by management or some other condition or occurrence, could be charged to the income statement. Any asset impairment charge could adversely affect our results of operations and shareholders equity in the period in which the impairment occurs. 102% of our profits for 2007 arose from the sale of CGP Investments Holdings, and on June 29, 2007 we paid a special dividend, which was discretionary. We can offer no assurance that we will continue to generate such level of profits or that we will pay any special dividends We have recorded negative cash flows in recent years. In 2007, we recorded a loss from continuing operations of HK$2,726 million, primarily as a result of an impairment charge related to our Thailand operations. It is possible that we will record losses in some future periods, and we cannot assure you that our losses will not increase in the future or, in the event that we do have profits, that we will be able to sustain our operating profits. We refer you to “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” for more information regarding our financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents In addition, subsequent to the sale of CGP Investments Holdings we paid a special dividend of HK$6.75 (US$0.87) per share and US$12.96 per ADS, or HK$32,234 million (US$4,133.4 million) in the aggregate. The payment of this dividend was discretionary. We cannot assure you that we will generate such level of profit or that we will decide to pay any special dividends in the future. Our major shareholder may take actions that are not in, or may conflict with, our other shareholders’ best interests Our largest shareholder is Hutchison Whampoa Limited, or Hutchison Whampoa, which as at April 21, 2008 held approximately 59.3% of our shares through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, which gives it the ability to control actions that require majority shareholders’ approval. In addition, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited, or Cheung Kong Holdings, which as at the same date held 49.97% of Hutchison Whampoa through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, held 1.1% of our shares through its wholly owned subsidiaries. Also, as at April 21, 2008, Mr. Li Ka-shing, Chairman of Hutchison Whampoa, held 5.6% of our shares through companies wholly owned by him. Cheung Kong Holdings has, pursuant to Rule 13d-4 under the Exchange Act, expressly disclaimed beneficial ownership of those of our shares held by Hutchison Whampoa. If the interests of our major shareholder conflict with the interests of our other shareholders, or if our major shareholder chooses to cause our business to pursue strategic objectives that conflict with the interests of our other shareholders, those other shareholders could be disadvantaged by the actions that Hutchison Whampoa chooses to pursue. We cannot assure you that any conflict of interests and overlap of business activities and operations between Hutchison Whampoa and us will not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, certain adverse events may occur if Hutchison Whampoa’s equity interest in our company falls below specified thresholds, which is an event that would be beyond our control. For example, certain of our financing and license agreements may be terminated if Hutchison Whampoa’s equity interest falls below specified levels. We do not own all of the intellectual property rights necessary to operate our business, and if any of these intellectual property rights become unavailable to us, we could face disruptions in our operations We do not own all of the intellectual property rights in the brand names that we use to market our services. We have arrangements with the Hutchison Whampoa group pursuant to which we have rights to use “3,” “Hutch” and “Hutchison Telecom” and other trademarks that include the word “Hutchison” or derivations thereof royalty-free until the relevant change of control provisions as agreed between the relevant members of our group and the Hutchison Whampoa group are triggered. We use the “3” brand in Hong Kong, Macau and Indonesia, and the “Hutch” brand in Thailand and Sri Lanka. We also have been granted licenses to use certain trademarks from non-Hutchison Whampoa entities, notably the “orange™” brand, which we license from a subsidiary of Orange SA. We use the “orange™” brand for our mobile telecommunications operations in Israel. In addition, the “HT Mobile” trademark, which is used by our Vietnam operations, is owned by Hanoi Telecommunications Joint Stock Company, or Hanoi Telecom, our partner in Vietnam. Hutchison Whampoa has the right to terminate its brand license agreements with our operating companies if its indirect interest in those licensee operating companies falls below specified thresholds. If these ownership thresholds are breached, which is an event that would be beyond our control, or if we breach the terms of our licenses with non-Hutchison Whampoa entities, we may have to renegotiate the terms of these trademark arrangements and/or pay royalties for the use of the relevant trademarks and domain names, or could lose the use of such trademarks and domain names altogether. We cannot assure you that the fees and terms of use will be commercially acceptable to us if we have to renegotiate these arrangements. If any of the brands under which we operate become unavailable to us, we could face disruptions in our operations and, as a consequence, our financial condition and the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected due to the importance of the trademarks and domain names to the branding of our business operations. 11 Table of Contents We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes and U.S. holders of our shares may be subject to special rules regarding taxation because of our PFIC status A non-U.S. corporation is classified as a PFIC if: (i) 75 percent or more of its gross income (including its pro rata share of gross income of any corporation of which it is considered to own 25 percent or more of the shares by value) in a taxable year is passive income, or (ii) 50 percent or more of its assets by value (including its pro rata interest in the assets of any company of which it is considered to own 25 percent or more of the shares by value) produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Notwithstanding our receipt of the cash proceeds from our sale of CGP Investments Holdings to Vodafone in 2007, based on our audited accounts and relevant market and shareholder data, we do not believe we were a PFIC for 2007. However, our continued holding of the cash balances we retain may cause the average value of our assets producing passive income to equal or exceed 50% for our 2008 taxable year. The determination of PFIC status is made on an annual basis, and will depend on, among other factors, how we use the cash balance, when such use of the cash balance occurs, and, if necessary, the availability of a special relief provision under Section 1298(b)(3) of the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, for companies that temporarily hold substantial passive assets as a result of the disposition of an active trade or business, also known as the change of business exception. To qualify for the change of business exception, we would need to satisfy the following conditions: (i) we have never previously been a PFIC; (ii) “substantially all” of the passive income for the year is attributable to proceeds from the disposition of one or more “active trades or businesses,” as these terms are used and interpreted under the Code; and (iii) we are not a PFIC for either of the next two taxable years. We have received a ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, confirming that our disposition of CGP Investments Holdings to Vodafone qualifies as the disposition of one or more “active trade or businesses” within the meaning of the change of business exception. Notwithstanding our receipt of the ruling letter, in order to qualify for the change of business exception in 2008, we would need to satisfy the three conditions listed above. In particular, in order to avoid PFIC status in either of the two subsequent years, we would need to reduce our holdings of assets generating passive income, increase the average value of our non-passive assets, or do both such things so that less than 50% of the average value of our total assets in 2009 and 2010 are passive. These actions could affect our ability to implement our business strategy or cause us to suffer losses. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in reducing our holdings of passive assets or increasing our holdings of non-passive assets. If we are found to be a PFIC for 2009 or 2010, then we would be retroactively ineligible for the change of business exception, but may not know and will not be able to inform you of such determination until 2010 or 2011. We cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for 2008 or any subsequent taxable year. If we are a PFIC, U.S. shareholders will be subject to certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences with respect to, among others, (i) the tax rates for dividends, (ii) “excess distributions” and (iii) gains realized on the sale or other disposition of shares. The consequences of our being a PFIC are described further in “Item 10. Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” The ability of our operating companies to generate earnings is important to our business, and any decline in the earnings of our operating companies or restrictions on our ability to transfer or convert currencies from the countries in which our operating companies are located could materially and adversely affect our earnings. We currently conduct all our operations through our operating companies. Our sources of cash flows include interest income, dividends paid to us by our operating companies and shareholder loans repaid to us by our operating companies. If earnings from our operating companies were to decline or if our operating companies were unable to repay the shareholder loans, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents In addition, disruption of the international foreign exchange markets may limit our ability to transfer or to convert currencies from the countries in which our operating companies are located into Hong Kong dollars and other currencies. Furthermore, the governments of certain countries in which we operate have instituted, and other countries may in the future institute, restrictive exchange rate policies that limit or restrict our ability to convert currencies into their respective currencies or to convert their respective currencies into other currencies or to transfer other currencies out of their jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that currency fluctuations or limitations on our ability to convert or transfer currencies would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. As a result of statutory or regulatory restrictions on foreign ownership, we do not own the majority of the voting stock in all of our operating companies and, as a result, we do not have complete control of these companies, which may limit our ability to cause these operating companies to take actions we believe would be beneficial to our shareholders Governmental policy and/or regulations in some countries in which we currently operate or may operate in the future limit the nature and extent of our investments in those countries. For example, in Vietnam, foreign ownership of an entity that operates a telecommunications network is limited and subject to government approval, as a result of which we conduct our operations there through a business cooperation contract with a Vietnamese partner that owns the network. As a result, our ownership interests in our operating companies in these countries do not in every instance provide us with the ability to control all actions that require shareholder approval and our ability to manage such operating companies may be hindered. Although we may participate in the management of such operating companies, we may not have the ability to prevent them from engaging in activities or pursuing strategic objectives that may conflict with our interests or overall strategic objectives. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Operating companies review—Vietnam.” We may need to rely upon an exemption to avoid being regulated as an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940 and might be required to take actions that are inconsistent with our business interests or objectives if we are no longer able to rely on an exemption The U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act, provides that a company is an investment company if, among other things, more than 40% of the value of the company’s total assets is represented by investment securities, which, under the applicable definition, includes minority equity investments and certain short-term debt securities. The 1940 Act contains substantive regulations with respect to investment companies, including restrictions on their capital structure, operations and transactions with affiliates that would be incompatible with our operations. Our primary business is our telecommunications operations. Nevertheless, as a result of the cash balances we retain from our sale of CGP Investments Holdings to Vodafone in 2007, there is a risk that we could be classified as an investment company for the purposes of the 1940 Act. If we were classified as an investment company, we believe that we currently would be eligible for certain exemptions from regulation under the 1940 Act. If we were to be classified as an investment company and were not eligible for an exemption, we might be required to take actions that are inconsistent with our business interests or objectives, such as reducing our holdings of cash and/or securities or increasing our holdings of assets that are not investment securities. These actions could affect our ability to implement our business strategy or cause us to suffer losses. In addition, if we were deemed to be an investment company and were not eligible for an exemption, we would, among other things, effectively be precluded from making offerings of our securities in the United States. This could impede our ability to raise additional capital or to implement our business plan. 13 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Markets Where We Operate Depreciation or fluctuation of the currencies in which we conduct operations relative to the Hong Kong dollar and foreign exchange restrictions could adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations If the currencies of various countries in which we conduct our operations fluctuate relative to the Hong Kong dollars, which we use as our presentation currency in our consolidated accounts, these fluctuations may result in exchange losses or gains and increases or reductions in our debt after translation into Hong Kong dollars. In 2007, we recorded a net exchange gain of HK$84 million (US$11 million) compared to a net exchange loss of HK$16 million in 2006. In December 2006, the Bank of Thailand imposed restrictions on the conversion of foreign currency in Thailand into Thai baht; these restrictions were subsequently removed on March 3, 2008. While in place, these restrictions affected our ability to freely transfer U.S. dollar inter-company loan proceeds into Thai baht and, as a result, we entered into foreign exchange swap contracts with various banks in Thailand. As at December 31, 2007, we had approximately US$1,095 million of foreign currency swaps outstanding with commercial banks. If we decide to unwind all or a portion of the outstanding foreign exchange swaps contracts, it could give rise to a material adverse impact on our results of operations in the future. Several countries in which we operate have restrictions on foreign ownership, and changes in the regulations or policies, or their application or interpretation, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations The regulators in countries such as Israel, Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam, in which we are subject to foreign ownership restrictions, may re-evaluate foreign ownership restrictions and other regulations applicable to the telecommunications and other sectors. Any changes of law, regulation or policy, or clarifications of, or changes in, the application or interpretation of any of those existing or proposed laws, regulations or policies could require us to remove or amend our existing arrangements and reduce our voting and/or economic interests in the relevant companies. Any such removal, amendment or reduction could affect our ability to implement our business strategy in the affected countries. Furthermore, we do not have complete control over whether those of our operating companies that are subject to foreign ownership restrictions are compliant with such restrictions. Compliance may be affected by whether other shareholders in these operating companies are domestic or foreign, as determined in accordance with the applicable rules, regulations or license conditions. If foreign ownership restrictions are determined to have been violated, monetary and criminal penalties could be imposed, and relevant licenses or agreements could be cancelled. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. Partner Communications Company Ltd., or Partner, is exposed to, and currently engaged in, a variety of legal proceedings, including class action lawsuits. Due to the legal environment of Israel and the scope and magnitude of Partner’s operations, Partner is subject to the risk of a large number of lawsuits, including class action suits by consumers which may be costly to defend and which may result in significant judgments against it. The Israeli Class Actions Law, 2006 and the 2005 amendment to the Israeli Consumer Protection Law, 1981, include provisions that expand the causes of action for which a class of litigants may bring suit, including with regard to any damages allegedly incurred prior to the effective date of these laws. These laws have reduced the requirements for certification of a class action lawsuit and the qualifications required to be a lead plaintiff in a class action lawsuit. These laws may increase the number of requests for approval of class actions and the number of class action suits against Partner, and may increase Partner’s legal exposure and legal costs in defending against such suits, which as a result may materially and adversely affect our financial results. Currently, Partner is engaged in a number of purported class action suits as a defendant, some of which are for substantial amounts. See “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Israel.” 14 Table of Contents Volatility in social, political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate may adversely affect our business. Many of our operating companies and a substantial portion of our total assets are located in countries, including Israel and Sri Lanka, that have experienced social, political and economic volatility. Ongoing conflict and violence between Israel and its Arab neighbors and Palestinians may have a material adverse effect on the Israeli economy, in general, and on the business, financial condition or results of operations of our Israeli business. During an emergency in Israel, including a major communications crisis in Israel’s national communications network, a natural disaster, or a special security situation, control of our network in Israel may be assumed by a lawfully authorized person in order to protect the security of the State of Israel or to ensure the provision of necessary services to the Israeli public. During such circumstances, the Israeli government also has the right to withdraw temporarily some of the spectrum granted to our Israeli business. In Sri Lanka, the armed conflict and violence between the Sri Lankan government and Tamil separatists continue. Developments in these countries and other countries in which we operate in the future, including uncertainties arising from economic liberalization and deregulation policies, future economic crises, outbreaks of hostility and political instability, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to the Telecommunications Industry Generally The telecommunications industry is a highly regulated industry in which regulators’ decisions may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Our business is highly regulated. In each of the countries in which we operate, we are subject to government regulation regarding licenses, competition, frequency allocation and costs and arrangements pertaining to interconnection and leased lines. Our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations or government policy affecting our business activities. For example, we are subject to regulations on our tariff structures in some jurisdictions where we operate. We cannot predict with accuracy or assure you on the timing, likelihood or likely magnitude of any future tariff adjustments generally or the extent of any potential impact such tariff adjustments would have on our business. We cannot assure you that our business, financial condition and the results of our operations will not be materially and adversely affected by any government-mandated tariff adjustments in the future. For example, the Ministry of Communications of Israel is evaluating roaming charges and may introduce new regulations that would limit fees Israeli mobile phone companies charge for calls made by foreign network operators’ customers while in Israel using Partner’s network as well as for calls made by Partner’s customers using their handsets abroad. Because Partner considers roaming charges to be a significant source of revenue, such regulatory changes could adversely affect our revenues. In addition, regulators in Israel have instituted a number of other reforms in recent years and are considering a variety of other actions that could adversely affect our revenues. See “Item 4. Business Overview—Regulation—Israel.” In some cases, regulators may also be competitors. While regulators may have been granted powers to ensure a level playing field among the various mobile telecommunications operators, we cannot assure you that the relevant government will ensure a level playing field between government-owned companies and private operators. 15 Table of Contents Required licenses and permits may be difficult to obtain in those countries where we operate a network, and once obtained may be amended or revoked or may not be renewed Our operation of telecommunications networks and the provision of related services are regulated to varying degrees by national, state, regional or local governmental and/or regulatory authorities. Our operating licenses specify the services we can offer and the frequency spectrum we can utilize for mobile operations. These licenses are subject to review, interpretation, modification or termination by the relevant authorities. We cannot assure you that the relevant authorities will not take actions that could materially and adversely affect us. Our operating licenses are generally renewable upon expiration. However, we cannot assure you that they will be renewed or that any renewal on new terms will be commercially acceptable to us. If we fail to renew any of our licenses, we may lose the ability to continue to operate the affected business, and the realizable value of our relevant network infrastructure and related assets may be materially and adversely affected. See “Item 4. Business Overview—Regulation. The rules of some government regulatory authorities that have jurisdiction over our operations may require us to meet specified network build-out requirements and schedules and satisfy various obligations, including minimum specified quality, service, coverage criteria and capital investment. Failure to comply with these obligations could result in the imposition of fines or the revocation or forfeiture of the license for that area. Furthermore, the need to meet scheduled deadlines may cause us to expend more resources than otherwise budgeted for a particular network build-out. The deployment of our networks requires various approvals or permits from national, state, regional or local governmental and/or regulatory authorities, particularly in relation to establishing cell sites. These approvals and permits may include building, construction and environmental permits, antenna and mast deployment approvals and other various planning permissions. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in obtaining some of these approvals and permits. For example, our Israeli business, like its competitors, has experienced difficulties in obtaining some consents and permits, especially those from local building authorities. As at December 31, 2007, approximately 10% of our antenna sites in Israel were operating without local building permits or applicable exemptions. Failure to obtain cell sites could have an adverse effect on the extent, quality and capacity of our network coverage and on our ability to continue to market our products and services effectively. Operating network sites without building or other required permits may result in criminal or civil liability to Partner or its officers and directors. Our inability to resolve these issues in a timely manner could also prevent us from achieving or maintaining the network coverage and quality requirements contained in our license. In Indonesia, we have experienced delays in obtaining necessary local permits and licenses and this has slowed our rollout and expansion of services. Continued or extended delays may have an adverse effect on our growth and results of operations for our Indonesian operations. We are dependent on interconnection with our competitors’ networks and associated infrastructure as well as roaming arrangements with other telecommunications operators Our ability to provide commercially viable mobile and fixed-line telecommunications services depends, in part, upon our interconnection arrangements with other telecommunications operators. In particular, we are dependent on interconnection with our competitors’ mobile and fixed-line networks and associated infrastructure for the successful operation of our business. The framework by which interconnection charges are made in certain jurisdictions where we operate are currently being reviewed by the relevant government authorities. Any change to the framework or the basis upon which interconnection charges are made is likely to require the renegotiation of our interconnection agreements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our interconnection agreements on terms that are commercially acceptable to us or that any material increase in the interconnection expenses would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. 16 Table of Contents Our operating companies are also dependent upon roaming agreements with other telecommunications operators as a source of revenues when the other telecommunications operators’ customers roam on our networks. If these roaming agreements were to terminate, or if the other telecommunications operators were to deploy incompatible technologies, our roaming revenues and profits may be materially reduced. Concerns about health risks relating to the use of mobile handsets may adversely affect our prospects Media and other reports have linked radio frequency emissions from mobile handsets to various health concerns, including cancer, and to interference with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Although we do not know of any definitive studies showing that radio frequency emissions cause health problems, concerns over radio frequency emissions may discourage the use of mobile handsets in the countries in which we conduct business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various government authorities in the markets in which we operate could also increase regulation of mobile handsets and base stations as a result of these concerns. In addition, lawsuits have been filed in the United States against certain participants in the telecommunications industry alleging various adverse health consequences as a result of mobile handset usage, and we may be subject to similar litigation in the future. Research and studies are ongoing, and we cannot assure you that further research and studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency emissions and health concerns. Any negative findings in these studies could adversely affect the use of mobile handsets and, as a result, our future financial performance. Our allocated spectrum may be insufficient for the expansion of our mobile telecommunications business The operation of our mobile telecommunications networks is limited by the amount of spectrum allocated to us in the countries where we operate. Allocation of spectrum is determined by the relevant governmental authorities in those countries. In determining spectrum allocation, governmental authorities generally seek to ensure choice of services, efficient use of spectrum and continuity of customer service while maintaining technology neutrality and providing a stable investment environment. Although we believe that our current spectrum allocation is sufficient for expected customer growth going forward, our future profitability may be materially and adversely affected if our allocated spectrum proves inadequate in the future for the expansion of our mobile telecommunications business, particularly for Indonesia and Vietnam, two of the markets in which we expect substantial customer growth. Risks Relating to Our ADSs and Ordinary Shares Our board of directors may suspend voting rights attaching to some shares as necessary to avoid any of our subsidiaries or affiliates being in breach or default Our articles of association provide that if any person directly or indirectly has or acquires an interest in a number of our shares that would or may, in the opinion of our directors, require a review or approval under, or which would or may result in any of our subsidiaries or affiliates (being any entity in which we directly or indirectly hold 5% or more of the issued share capital) being in breach or in default of, any applicable law, regulation or license, permit, consent or privilege held or enjoyed by any such subsidiary or affiliate, or any requirement of any governmental or regulatory authority, our directors have the discretion to suspend the shareholder’s right to exercise the voting rights attaching to the affected shares in which the shareholder has an interest in respect of any resolution at any general meeting of our company. Our directors also have the ability to restrict the director(s) appointed by or at the direction of that shareholder, if any, to our board of directors from voting on any resolution or matter that concerns the activities of any affected entity or appointment of a director or the managing director of any affected entity. See “Item 10. Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—Rights, Preferences, Restrictions Attaching to Shares and Changing the Rights of Shareholders—Voting Rights.” 17 Table of Contents It may be more difficult for you to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, than if we were a corporation incorporated in the United States We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct substantially all of our operations outside of the United States. In addition, substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Moreover, most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors and actions by minority shareholders are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law in the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority in a court in the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands law in this area may not be as established and may differ from provisions under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may face different considerations in protecting their interests in actions against the management, directors or our major shareholder than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring or enforce an action against us or against these individuals in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. In particular, the Cayman Islands courts are unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, to impose liabilities against us based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. Our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs As a holder of our ADSs, you may instruct the depositary of your ADSs to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs but only if we ask the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw our ordinary shares underlying the ADSs you hold. However, you may not know about the meeting far enough in advance to withdraw those ordinary shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote, and there may be nothing you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless we notify the depositary that: • we do not wish to receive a discretionary proxy; • we think there is substantial shareholder opposition to the particular question; or • we think the particular question would have a material adverse impact on our shareholders. 18 Table of Contents The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company, which could adversely affect your interests. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares represented by ADSs or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to holders of ADSs The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs Your ADSs, represented by ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of your ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 