RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to Our Business Decreases in the Amount of Mortgage Financing Provided by Mexican Housing Funds on Which We Depend, or Disbursement Delays, Could Result in a Decrease in Our Sales and Revenues The home building industry in Mexico has been characterized by a significant shortage of mortgage financing. Historically, the limited availability of financing has restricted home building and contributed to the current shortage of affordable entry-level housing. Substantially all financing for affordable entry-level housing in Mexico is provided by entities established for this purpose (“Mexican Housing Funds”) such as: · the National Workers’ Housing Fund Institute, or INFONAVIT (Instituto del Fondo Nacional para la Vivienda de los Trabajadores), which is financed primarily through mandatory contributions from the gross wages of private segment workers, and securitization of mortgages in the capital markets; · the Social Security and Services Institute Public Segment Workers’ Housing Fund, or FOVISSSTE (Fondo para la Vivienda y la Seguridad y Servicios Sociales para los Trabajadores del Estado ), which is financed primarily through mandatory contributions from the gross wages of public sector workers; and · public mortgage providers such as the Federal Mortgage Society, or SHF (Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal, S.N.C., Institucion de Banca de Desarrollo), which is financed through its own funds as well as funds provided by the World Bank and a trust managed by Banco de México. 11 See “Item 4. Information on the Company— Business Overview—The Mexican Housing Market.” The amount of funding available and the level of mortgage financing from these sources is limited and may vary from year to year. These Mexican Housing Funds have significant discretion in terms of the allocation and timing of disbursement of mortgage funds. We depend on the availability of mortgage financing provided by these Mexican Housing Funds for substantially all of our sales of affordable entry-level housing, which represented 77.0% of our revenues and 77.0% of our operating income for 2008 and 77.3% of our revenues and 77.3% of our operating income for 2007. Accordingly, our financial results are affected by policies and administrative procedures of INFONAVIT, FOVISSSTE, SHF, and a federal housing subsidy program, as well as by the Mexican government’s housing policy. The availability of mortgage financing granted by INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE has increased significantly during the past six years as compared to historical levels, while financing from SHF has decreased due to a change in its policy in 2005. However, financing from SHF may increase due to a Mexican governmental policy initiative that promotes direct financing to Limited Purpose Financing Companies and Multiple Purpose Financing Companies (Sociedades Financieras de Objeto Limitado y Sociedades Financieras de Objeto Múltiple or “sofoles” and “sofomes”). This policy initiative was designed to help sofoles and sofomes continue lending despite liquidity constraints related to sofoles’ and sofomes’ exposure to mortgage backed securities. The Mexican governmental policy initiative may provide an additional source of future financing to Homex’s middle-income clients. The future Mexican government housing finance policy may limit or delay the availability of mortgage financing provided by these agencies or otherwise institute changes, including changes in the methods by which these agencies grant mortgages and, in the case of INFONAVIT, the geographic allocation of mortgage financing, that could result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. Disruptions in the operations of these Mexican Housing Funds, which could occur for any reason, may occur and result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. This year, disruptions included a delay in the disbursement of Federal Government subsidies in certain cities delaying the timing by which INFONAVIT commits to closing a transaction, and a slowdown in the collection process through FOVISSTE, who employs sofoles to make payments which result in delays in the payment process.. Decreases or delays in the amount of funds available from INFONAVIT, FOVISSSTE, SHF or other sources, or substantially increased competition for these funds, could result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. These funds may not continue to be allocated at their current levels or in regions in which we have or can quickly establish a significant presence. The current administration of President Felipe Calderón has initiated a National Housing Program (Programa Nacional de Vivienda) 2007-2012, through which the government expects that Mexican Housing Funds will provide six million mortgages by 2012, mainly to low-income families. For 2009, the government believes that Mexican Housing Funds will provide 1.3 million residential mortgages. A Slowdown in the Mexican Economy Could Limit the Availability of Private-Segment Financing in Mexico, on Which We Depend for Our Sales of Middle-Income Housing, Which Could Result in a Decrease in Our Sales and Revenues One of our long-term strategies is to expand our operations in the middle-income and residential housing segments while maintaining our margins and without adversely affecting our financial condition. Our expansion into these markets depends on private segment lenders, such as commercial banks and Limited Purpose Financing Companies and Multiple Purpose Financing Companies (Sociedades Financieras de Objeto Limitado y Sociedades Financieras de Objeto Múltiple, or “sofoles” and “sofomes”), which provide a substantial majority of mortgage financing for the middle-income segment. The availability of private segment mortgage financing in Mexico has been severely constrained in the past as a result of volatile economic conditions in Mexico, the level of liquidity and stability of the Mexican banking system, and the resulting adoption of more stringent lending criteria and bank regulations. From 1995 through 2001, commercial bank mortgage lending was generally unavailable in Mexico. However, during the same period a number of sofoles were formed, serving the mostly middle-income market. Since 2002, private sector lenders have gradually increased their mortgage financing activities as a result of improved economic conditions and increasing consumer demand. However, unfavorable general economic conditions, such as the current recession and economic slowdown in the United States have begun to negatively affect the Mexican economy and the availability of private sector mortgage financing. As a result, commercial lenders have begun to change their criteria for mortgage origination. Additionally, sofoles and sofomes have begun to face liquidity constraints due to increased exposure to non-performing loans. As a result, our profitability could be reduced and financial performance could be negatively affected. 12 Our Strategy for Expansion in the Tourism/Resort Housing Market may be Affected by a Slowdown in U.S. General Economic Conditions, Which Could Adversely Affect Our Business or Our Financial Results The tourism/resort homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and other factors, such as the level of employment, consumer confidence, consumer income, availability of financing, and interest rate levels. Adverse changes in any of these conditions, or in the markets where our targeted clients operate, could decrease demand and pricing for new homes in these areas or result in customer cancellations of pending contracts, which could adversely affect the number of home deliveries we make or reduce the prices we can charge for homes in the tourism/resort housing markets, either of which could result in a decrease in our revenues and earnings and would adversely affect our financial condition. However, the Company believes that the targeted customers will consist of an exclusive sector of senior U.S. and European residents, for whom the availability of financing is not a key requisite for purchasing a second home. Nonetheless, we anticipate a reduction in potential customers for this segment due to softer demand from our targeted customers related to the current recession and economic slowdown. We Experience Significant Seasonality in Our Results of Operations The Mexican affordable entry-level housing industry experiences significant seasonality during the year, principally due to the operational and lending cycles of INFONAVIT and FOVISSSTE. Payment by these lenders for home deliveries is slow at the beginning of the year and increases gradually through the second and third quarters with a rapid acceleration in the fourth quarter. We build and deliver affordable entry-level homes based on the seasonality of this cycle because we do not begin construction of these homes until a mortgage provider commits mortgage financing to a qualified homebuyer in a particular development. Accordingly, we also tend to recognize significantly higher levels of revenue in the third and fourth quarters and our debt levels tend to be highest in the first and second quarters. We anticipate that our quarterly results of operations and our level of indebtedness will continue to experience variability from quarter to quarter in the future. We May Experience Difficulty in Finding Desirable Land Tracts or Increases in the Price of Land May Increase Our Cost of Sales and Decrease Our Earnings Our continued growth depends in large part on our ability to continue to be able to acquire land and to do so at a reasonable cost. As more developers enter or expand their operations in the Mexican home building industry, land prices could rise significantly and suitable land could become scarce due to increased demand or decreased supply. A resulting rise in land prices may increase our cost of sales and decrease our earnings. We may not be able to continue to acquire suitable land at reasonable prices in the future. Increases in the Price of Raw Materials May Increase Our Cost of Sales and Reduce Our Net Earnings The basic raw materials used in the construction of our homes include concrete, concrete block, steel, windows, doors, roof tiles and plumbing fixtures. Increases in the price of raw materials, including increases that may occur as a result of shortages, duties, restrictions, or fluctuations in exchange rates, could increase our cost of sales and reduce our net earnings to the extent we are unable to increase our sale prices. It is possible that the prices of our raw materials will increase in the future. Because We Recognize Income from Sales of Homes Under the Percentage-of-Completion Method of Accounting Before Receiving Cash Revenue, Failed Closings Could Result in a Shortfall of Actual Cash Received and Require an Adjustment to Revenue Previously Recorded In accordance with MFRS, and consistent with industry practice in Mexico, we recognize income from the sale of homes based on the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, which in Mexico requires us to recognize income as we incur the cost of construction. See Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the percentage-of-completion method. However, we do not receive the consideration from these sales until the homes are titled. As a result, there is a risk that revenue in respect of the income recognized for accounting purposes will not be received due to the failure of a sale to close. Loss of the Services of Our Key Management Personnel Could Result in Disruptions to Our Business Operations Our management and operations are dependent in large part upon the contributions of a small number of key senior management personnel, including Eustaquio Tomás de Nicolás Gutiérrez, our Chairman, and Gerardo de Nicolás Gutiérrez, our Chief Executive Officer. We do not have employment or non-compete agreements with or maintain key-man life insurance in respect of either of these individuals. Because of their knowledge of the industry and our operations and their experience with Homex, we believe that our future results will depend upon their efforts, and the loss of the services of either of these individuals for any reason could result in disruptions to our business operations. 13 Competition from Other Home Builders Could Result in a Decrease in Our Sales and Revenues The home building industry in Mexico is highly competitive. Our principal competitors include public companies like Corporación GEO, S.A.B. de C.V., Consorcio ARA, S.A.B. de C.V., URBI Desarrollos Urbanos, S.A.B. de C.V. and SARE, S.A.B. de C.V. Our ability to maintain existing levels of home sales depends to some extent on competitive conditions, including price competition, competition for available mortgage financing, and competition for available land. Competition is likely to decrease as some smaller and medium-sized homebuilding companies in Mexico are experiencing limited growth opportunities due to: (1) their dependence on bridge loans and short-term credit lines; (2) increases in the range of 300 to 400 bps in these companies interest rates for short-term credit lines; and (3) tighter lending restrictions from commercial banks to renew existing credit lines. We may experience pressure to reduce our prices in certain regions if some of our competitors are forced to sell their inventory in distressed sales upon exiting the market. In addition, competitive conditions may prevent us from achieving our goal of increasing our sales volume, or result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. Changes in Building and Zoning Regulations to Which We are Subject Could Cause Delays in Construction and Result in Increased Costs The Mexican housing industry is subject to extensive building and zoning regulation by various federal, state and municipal authorities. These authorities oversee land acquisition, development and construction activities, and certain dealings with customers. The costs associated with obtaining building and zoning permits, paying purchase or development fees and taxes, securing utility service rights and titling new homes are substantially higher in Mexico than in other countries and vary significantly from region to region in Mexico. We are required to obtain the approval of numerous federal, state and local governmental authorities for our development activities. Changes in local circumstances or applicable law or regulations of such entities may require modifying or applying for additional approvals or changing our processes and procedures to comply with them. It is possible that these factors could cause delays in construction and result in increased costs. Changes to Environmental Laws and Regulations to Which We are Subject Could Cause Delays in Construction and Result in Increased Costs Our operations are subject to Mexican federal, state and municipal environmental laws and regulations. Changes to environmental laws and regulations, or stricter interpretation or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, could cause delays in construction and result in increased costs. Our Uninsured Housing Developments under Construction Could Suffer Unforeseen Casualties, Which Could Result in Significant Losses to Us We do not generally obtain liability insurance to cover housing developments under construction unless it is required by providers of construction financing. In the event that our uninsured housing developments suffer unforeseen casualties, we may experience significant losses. A Reduction in Distributions from Our Operating Subsidiaries Could Limit Our Ability to pay Dividends and Service Our Debt Obligations We are a holding company with no substantial operations and no significant assets other than the common shares of our majority-owned subsidiaries. We depend on receiving sufficient funds from our subsidiaries for virtually all our internal cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends and service our debt obligations. As a result, our cash flow will be affected if we do not receive dividends and other income from our subsidiaries. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make other transfers to us is limited by requirements that need to be satisfied under Mexican law. This ability may also be limited by credit agreements entered into by our subsidiaries. Risk Factors Related to Mexico We Face Risks Related to Health Epidemics and Other Outbreaks Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of any epidemic or contingency. In April 2009, an outbreak of Influenza AH1N1 flu occurred in Mexico and the United States and there have been recent cases in China and elsewhere in Asia. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence or other adverse public health developments in Mexico may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. Our operations may be impacted 14 by a number of health-related factors, including, among other things, quarantines or closures of our facilities, which could disrupt our operations, and a general slowdown in the Mexican economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any type of epidemic. Adverse Economic Conditions in Mexico May Result in a Decrease in Our Sales and Revenues We are a Mexican company with substantially most of our assets located in Mexico and all of our revenues derived from operations in Mexico. As such, our business may be significantly affected by the general conditions of the Mexican economy. Mexico experienced a period of slow growth from 2001 through 2003 primarily as a result of the downturn in the U.S. economy. In 2005, GDP grew by 3% and inflation decreased to 3.3%; in 2006, GDP grew by 4.5% and inflation increased to 4.1%; in 2007, GDP grew by 5.6% and inflation decreased to 3.7%; and in 2008, GDP grew by 1.3% and inflation increased to 6.5%. Mexico also has, and is expected to continue to have, high real and nominal interest rates. The interest rates on 28-day Mexican government treasury securities (Certificados de la Tesoreria de la Federación) averaged approximately 7.00%, 7.44% and 7.97% for 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Accordingly, if we incur peso-denominated debt in the future, it could be at high interest rates. As a consequence of the global recession and economic slowdown during 2008, the Mexican economy entered into a recession. In Mexico, GDP growth during the first three months of 2009 contracted 8.2% compared to the first three months of 2008. As of April 30, 2009, twelve-month accumulated inflation had increased to 6.2% compared to 4.5% during the same period in 2008. As a consequence, consumer confidence decreased to an eight-year low of 82.1, with a corresponding impact on consumption. The current recession could affect our operations to the extent that we are unable to reduce our costs and expenses in response to falling demand. These factors could result in a decrease in our sales and revenues. Fluctuations of the Peso Relative to the U.S. Dollar Could Result in an Increase in Our Cost of Financing and Limit Our Ability to Make Timely Payments on Foreign Currency-Denominated Debt Because substantially all of our revenues are and will continue to be denominated in pesos, if the value of the peso decreases against the U.S. dollar, our cost of financing will increase. Severe depreciation of the peso may also result in disruption of the international foreign exchange markets. This may limit our ability to transfer or convert pesos into U.S. dollars and other currencies for the purpose of making timely payments of interest and principal on our securities and any U.S. dollar-denominated debt that we may incur in the future. While the Mexican government has not restricted the right or ability of Mexican or foreign individuals to convert pesos into U.S. dollars or to transfer other currencies out of Mexico since 1982, the Mexican government could institute restrictive exchange rate policies in the future. Political Events in Mexico May Result in Disruptions to Our Business Operations and Decreases in Our Sales and Revenues The Mexican government exercises significant influence over many aspects of the Mexican economy. In addition, we depend on Mexican government housing policy, especially with regard to the operation of mortgage providers comprised of Mexican Housing Funds, for a large portion of our business. As a result, the actions of the Mexican government concerning the economy and regulating certain industries could have a significant effect on Mexican private segment entities, including Homex, and on market conditions, prices of and returns on Mexican securities. President Calderón may implement significant changes in laws, public policy and/or regulations that could affect Mexico’s political and economic situation, which could adversely affect our business. Social and political instability in Mexico or other adverse social or political developments in or affecting Mexico could affect us and our ability to obtain financing. It is also possible that political uncertainty may adversely affect Mexican financial markets. Elections for the Mexican Senate, House of Representatives and for the governorship of certain states of the Republic are scheduled for July 5, 2009. No political party in Mexico has a majority in the Congress or Senate. The lack of a majority party in the legislature, the potential lack of alignment between the legislature and the President and any changes that result from the congressional elections could result in instability or deadlock, and prevent the timely implementation of political and economic reforms, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on Mexican economic policy and on our business. We cannot provide any assurance that future political developments in Mexico, over which we have no control, will not have an unfavorable impact on our financial position or results of operations. 15 Developments in Other Countries May Result in Decreases in the Price of Our Securities As is the case with respect to securities of issuers from other emerging markets, the market value of securities of Mexican companies is, to varying degrees, affected by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in these countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Mexico, investors’ reactions to developments in any of these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Mexican issuers. In recent years, for example, prices of both Mexican debt securities and Mexican equity securities dropped substantially as a result of developments in Russia, Asia and Brazil. In addition, the direct correlation between economic conditions in Mexico and the United States has sharpened in recent years as a result of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) and increased economic activity between the two countries. As a result of the slowing economy in the United States and the uncertainty it could have on the general economic conditions in Mexico and the United States, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, due to recent developments in the international credit markets, capital availability and cost could be significantly affected and could restrict our ability to obtain financing or refinance our existing indebtedness on favorable terms, if at all. We are Subject to Different Corporate Disclosure and Accounting Standards than U.S. Companies A principal objective of the securities laws of the United States, Mexico and other countries is to promote full and fair disclosure of all material corporate information. However, there may be less or different publicly available information about foreign issuers of securities than is regularly published by or about U.S. issuers of listed securities. Risk Factors Related to Our Common Shares and ADSs Future Issuances of Shares May Result in a Decrease in the Prices of Our ADSs and Common Shares In the future, we may issue additional equity securities for financing and other general corporate purposes, although there is no present intention to do so. Any such sales or the prospect of any such sales could result in a decrease in the prices of our ADSs and common shares. Future Sales of Our Shares by Our Principal Shareholders May Result in a Decrease in the Prices of Our Securities Our principal shareholder, the de Nicolás family, holds 35% of our outstanding share capital. Actions by these shareholders with respect to the disposition of the shares they beneficially own, or the perception that such actions might occur, may decrease the trading price of our shares on the Mexican Stock Exchange and the price of the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange. Our principal shareholders are not subject to any contractual restrictions that limit their right to dispose of their common shares. Pre-emptive Rights May be Unavailable to Holders of Our ADSs, Which May Result in a Dilution of ADS Holders’ Equity Interest in Our Company Under Mexican law, if we issue new shares for cash as part of a capital increase, we must grant pre-emptive rights to our shareholders, giving them the right to purchase a sufficient number of shares to maintain their pro rata interest unless we issue shares in a public offering. However, we may not be legally permitted to offer ADS holders in the United States the right to exercise pre-emptive rights in any future issuances of shares unless we file a registration statement with the SEC with respect to that future issuance of shares, or the issuance qualifies for an exemption from the registration requirements of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act. At the time of any future capital increase, we will evaluate the costs and potential liabilities associated with filing a registration statement with the SEC, the benefits of enabling U.S. holders of ADSs to exercise pre-emptive rights, and any other factors that we consider important in determining whether to file a registration statement to permit the exercise of mandatory pre-emptive rights. It is possible that we will not file such a registration statement. As a result, the equity interests of ADS holders would be diluted to the extent that ADS holders cannot participate in a future capital increase. Under the terms of the ADSs, you may instruct the depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, to vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs, but only if we request the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the common shares underlying the ADSs and vote such common shares. However, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting to permit you to withdraw your common shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send out or receive your voting instructions on time or carry them out in the manner you have instructed. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to 16 vote. In addition, Mexican law and our bylaws require shareholders to provide evidence of their status as shareholders through INDEVAL’s depositors’ list in order to attend shareholders’ meetings. ADS holders will not be able to meet this requirement and are therefore not entitled to attend shareholders’ meetings. ADS holders will also not be permitted to vote the common shares underlying the ADSs directly at a shareholders’ meeting or to appoint a proxy to do so without withdrawing the common shares. Minority Shareholders Have Different Rights Against Us, Our Directors, or Our Controlling Shareholders in Mexico Under Mexican law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those afforded to minority shareholders in the United States. The grounds for shareholder derivative actions under Mexican law are extremely limited, which effectively bars most of these kinds of lawsuits in Mexico. Procedures for class-action lawsuits do not exist under Mexican law. Therefore, it may be more difficult for minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us, our directors or our controlling shareholders than it would be for minority shareholders of a U.S. company. It May be Difficult to Enforce Civil Liabilities Against Us or Our Directors, Executive Officers and Controlling Persons We are organized under the laws of Mexico. A majority of our directors, executive officers and controlling persons reside outside the U.S.; all or a significant portion of the assets of our directors, executive officers and controlling persons, and substantially all of our assets, are located outside the U.S.; and certain of the experts named in this annual report also reside outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the U.S. upon these persons or to enforce against them or us in U.S. courts judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. We have been advised by our Mexican counsel, Cortes, Muñiz y Núñez Sarrapy, S.C., that there is doubt as to the enforceability, in original actions in Mexican courts, of liabilities predicated solely on U.S. federal securities laws and as to the enforceability in Mexican courts of judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. 