Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Growth Strategy The initial maturity date of our current line of credit is June 1, 2007, and unless we are able to repay outstanding indebtedness under the line at that time, or by any extended maturity date which may be no later than October 2, 2007, the loss of any of our assets securing such debt could adversely affect our business. Our current line of credit with Wachovia Bank, National Association, has a maturity date of June 1, 2007, at which time all outstanding indebtedness under the line will become due and payable. As of March 15, 2007, we had $138.0 million in outstanding indebtedness under the line of credit. In December 2006, we announced that our management expected to implement a business strategy beginning in 2007 that would involve the sale, refinancing and/or entrance into a joint venture with respect to a number of our currently owned student housing properties. The proceeds from this business strategy would be used to repay outstanding indebtedness under our line of credit. While the line of credit remains effective, the lender has the sole discretion to approve of various aspects of our business strategy, such as the release of any student housing assets securing the line for sale to third parties or the placement of such assets into a joint venture with a third party. There can be no guarantee that our management team will be able to execute upon its business strategy at all or on terms that are currently anticipated, and therefore that we will be able to obtain the necessary funds to repay the outstanding indebtedness under the line of credit when it becomes due and payable on the initial maturity date. To the extent that we are unable to successfully implement this business strategy at all or on terms that are currently anticipated by our management team, then we need either (i) to extend the initial maturity date, or (ii) to identify other sources of capital in order to repay the outstanding indebtedness under our line of credit at its maturity date. If we elect to extend the maturity date, we would only be able to extend it under the current agreement through no later than October 2, 2007. Such extension would trigger the payment of an additional fee and an increase in the effective interest rates under the terms of the loan. For a discussion of the extension terms of our current line of credit, see the section of this report titled “Our Business—Line of Credit.” To the extent that we elect to extend the initial term of our credit facility and become subject to a higher interest rate on outstanding borrowings thereunder, our results of operations will be adversely impacted. In addition, if we fail to identify the capital necessary to repay our line of credit upon its maturity date (whether or not extended), our lender may pursue its remedies to take control over certain assets that secure the line of credit. The loss of any such assets could impact our ability to qualify as a real estate investment trust and could adversely affect our business. If we were to default in the future on any of our mortgage indebtedness, the loss of any of our assets securing such debt could adversely affect our business or result in the secured indebtedness under our line of credit being immediately due and payable. A substantial portion of our student housing properties are secured by first mortgages. In addition, as discussed in the risk factor above, in connection with obtaining our current line of credit with Wachovia Bank in October 2006, we granted the lender a security interest in the cash flows from our operating partnership and its subsidiaries that own and operate our student housing properties and third-party management contracts. As additional collateral security for our obligations under this line of credit, our operating partnership and several of its direct and indirect subsidiaries that own the student housing properties that were previously unencumbered under our former credit facility, and the student housing properties acquired in our Capstone portfolio acquisition, also entered into a pledge agreement in favor of Wachovia. Pursuant to this pledge agreement, we granted a security interest in the equity interests in the entities that own, directly or indirectly, these student housing properties, as well as our third-party management business and the contracts pursuant to which we receive management, development and renovation fees with respect to operation of our military housing privatization projects. Our cash flow may 30 be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest on our debt. Any default in payment of our indebtedness or violation of any covenants in our loan documents could result in the loss of our investment in the properties or assets securing the debt or result in our debt obligations under our line of credit being immediately due and payable, to the extent that we are unable to obtain waivers of financial covenants from our lenders or amend the loan documents. Additionally, some of our indebtedness contains cross default provisions. A default under a loan with cross default provisions could result in default on other indebtedness. Our internal control over financial reporting may not be sufficient to ensure timely and reliable financial information. As discussed under Item 9A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, in connection with the completion of the audit of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and an investigation performed by our Audit Committee commenced during the first quarter of 2006, the Company identified and communicated to the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm “material weaknesses” involving internal control over financial reporting and its function. Although management’s report on internal control over financial reporting as contained in Item 9A of this report indicates the presence of no material weaknesses in internal control as of December 31, 2006, there can be no assurance that internal control systems will continue to remain effective going forward, or that further remediation efforts will not be required in order to maintain our internal control over financial reporting. The Company’s growth could continue to place stress on its internal control systems, and there can be no assurance that the Company’s current control procedures will be adequate. Even after corrective actions have been implemented, the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting may be limited by a variety of risks, including faulty human judgment and simple errors, omissions and mistakes, inappropriate management override of procedures, and risk that enhanced controls and procedures may still not be adequate to assure timely and reliable financial information. If the Company fails to have effective internal control over financial reporting in place, it could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information. Pending material litigation or the commencement of an investigation by the SEC could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. There have been several class action complaints filed against the Company and our chief executive officer and former chief financial officer. These complaints allege, among other things, that the defendants committed securities fraud in connection with the offer, purchase and sale of the Company’s common shares between October 28, 2004 and March 10, 2006. As of the date of this report, the court has appointed a lead plaintiff, but the class has not yet been certified. In addition, the sellers of a portfolio of student housing properties that we acquired in June 2005, who received units of limited partnership interests in our operating partnership in connection with the transaction, have filed suit against us under a similar securities fraud claim. The outcome of this litigation is uncertain, and although the Company will defend itself against the claims made in these lawsuits, no assurance can be given as to the outcome of this litigation. For a discussion of this pending and threatened litigation, see the section of this report titled “Legal Proceedings.” Costs associated with defending this securities litigation, or with the payment of any judgments in or settlements of such litigation, could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In addition, after we alerted the SEC of the Audit Committee investigation and related matters, the SEC staff initiated an informal inquiry in connection with these matters. If the SEC ultimately investigates these matters, or any restatements of our financial statements, the investigation could adversely affect the Company’s ability to access the capital markets. In addition, the Company could incur significant legal, 31 accounting and other costs in connection with responding to any such investigation, and could be required to pay large civil penalties and fines resulting from any enforcement actions that could be instituted by the SEC. The SEC also could impose other sanctions against us or certain of our executive officers. These additional costs, together with the likely strain on management’s time and attention and other of our operational resources in addressing any such investigation, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have reported net losses in the past and may continue to do so in the future. For the second, third and fourth quarters, as well as for the full year ended December 31, 2006, we reported net losses. These losses were primarily attributable to increased expenses incurred during those periods relating to our previously disclosed Audit Committee special investigation and activities of the Special Committee of the Board of Trustees. We also have experienced increases in expenses relating to our student housing business, and to the extent we are unable to manage those expenses going forward, our operating results from this segment could contribute to additional losses for the Company on a consolidated basis. As referenced in the risk factor above, we also may incur significant legal expenses relating to defending the pending class action securities litigation against the Company. If our student housing and military housing businesses do not generate sufficient revenue from operations to maintain profitability, we may continue to experience losses from operations. Since our initial public offering, our cash flow from operations has been insufficient to fund our dividend distributions to our shareholders, and it could continue to be so in the future. To the extent our cash flow from operations is insufficient to fund our dividend distributions, we expect to borrow funds or to lower our dividend distributions. Since completion of our initial public offering, we have used borrowings under our credit facility to pay a portion of dividend distributions to our shareholders. We expect that during 2007 our cash flow from operations will continue to be the primary source of funding for our distributions to shareholders. To the extent that we are unable to fund our dividend distributions with cash flow from operations, we may be required to borrow funds in order to make distributions at historical levels. In the past, we have relied on third-party debt financing, including funds from our line of credit, in order to fund a portion of our dividend distributions. Under our current line of credit with Wachovia Bank, our lender must consent to the use of funds borrowed thereunder for payment of any future dividend distributions. Similarly, if we seek to borrow funds from another lending source, we would be required to obtain prior consent from our lender under the line of credit while it remains effective. There can be no guarantee that our lender will approve this use of funds from the line of credit, or outside borrowing of funds from a third party, for any future quarterly dividend distributions to our shareholders. To the extent that our lender does not approve such use, and we do not have sufficient funds from operations to fund our dividend distributions at historical levels, we may be required to lower our dividend distributions. Any additional indebtedness that we incur with respect to payment of our dividend distributions also will increase our leverage and could decrease our ability to borrow money for other needs, such as the acquisition or development of student housing properties and investments in military housing privatization projects. We commenced operations through our operating partnership in 2004, have a limited history of operating and owning our student housing properties and military housing privatization projects, and therefore may have difficulty successfully and profitably operating our business. We have only recently commenced operations through the acquisition of our student housing properties, investments in military housing privatization projects and agreements to manage student housing for others by our operating partnership in connection with our initial public offering in November 2004 and the related formation transactions at the time of our initial public offering. As a result, 32 we have a limited operating history and limited experience in owning these student housing properties and operating these military housing privatization projects. Furthermore, we acquired our student housing properties and investments in military housing privatization projects we own as of December 31, 2006 primarily within the past two years and we have limited operating histories for the properties currently under management. Consequently, our historical operating results and the financial data set forth in this report may not be useful in assessing our likely future performance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient net income from operations to make distributions to our shareholders. Historically, we have experienced rapid growth in our student housing and military housing businesses and may not be able to adapt our management and operational systems to respond to the acquisition and integration of these properties and investments in privatization projects, or to respond to new properties and projects that we acquire in the future, without unanticipated disruption or expense. We acquired all of our student housing properties and investments in military housing privatization projects since July 2004 and expect to continue to acquire additional student housing properties and invest in military housing privatization projects going forward. As a result of the rapid historical growth of our portfolio, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt our management, administrative, accounting and operational systems, or hire or retain sufficient operational staff to integrate these student housing properties and military housing privatization projects into our portfolio and manage any future acquisitions of additional student housing properties or military housing privatization projects without operating disruptions or unanticipated costs. Our failure to successfully integrate any future student housing property acquisitions, student housing property management contracts or military housing privatization projects into our portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We expect our real estate investments to continue to be concentrated in student housing and military housing, making us more vulnerable to economic downturns in these housing markets than if our investments were diversified across several industry or property types. We elected to be treated as a REIT for federal income tax purposes in connection with the filing of our tax return for the taxable year ended December 31, 2004, and we expect to continue to qualify as a REIT in the future. Accordingly, we will invest primarily in real estate. We intend to acquire, manage, and to a lesser extent, develop student housing properties, and to develop, construct, renovate and manage military housing properties. We are subject to risks inherent in concentrating investments in real estate. The risks resulting from a lack of diversification become even greater as a result of our business strategy to invest primarily in student and military housing properties. A downturn in the student or military housing markets could negatively affect our ability to lease our properties to new student residents and our ability to profitably operate our military housing privatization projects or obtain new privatization projects. These adverse effects could be more pronounced than if we diversified our investments outside of real estate or outside of the student and military housing markets. If we are unable to successfully perform our obligations under our current student housing property management agreements and current military housing privatization projects, our ability to execute our business plan and our operating results could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manage our student housing properties, or develop, construct, renovate and manage the military housing properties under our privatization projects, or that we will be able to perform our obligations under our current student housing property management agreements or military housing privatization projects. If we are unable to perform, we may be unable to 33 execute our business plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We have agreed with Vornado Realty L.P. that our activities will satisfy certain requirements. If we are unable to satisfy these requirements we could be liable for substantial amounts. In connection with the investment by affiliates of Vornado Realty L.P. in our operating partnership and the issuance of a warrant to Vornado Realty L.P., we and our operating partnership have agreed to certain restrictions regarding our activities and assets and the activities and assets of our operating partnership. If we breach any of these agreements, and, as a result, Vornado Realty L.P. fails to maintain its qualification as a REIT or otherwise incurs liability for any tax, penalty or similar charges, we and our operating partnership could be exposed to substantial liability for damages attributable to our breach. We are subject to risks associated with the general development of housing properties, including those associated with construction, lease-up, financing, real estate tax exemptions, cost overruns and delays in obtaining necessary approvals, and the risk that we may be unable to meet schedule or performance requirements of our contracts. We intend to continue to acquire, manage, and to a lesser extent, develop student housing properties, and to develop, construct, renovate and manage military housing properties under our privatization projects, in accordance with our business plan. We also engage in the development and construction of student housing properties. These activities may include the following risks: · construction/renovation costs of a property may exceed original estimates, possibly making the development uneconomical; · occupancy rates and rents at newly completed student housing properties or military housing properties may be insufficient to make the properties profitable to us or to provide sufficient cash flows to fund future development, construction or renovation periods; · acceptable financing may not be available on favorable terms for development or acquisition of a property; · leasing of a property may take longer than expected; · development efforts may be abandoned; · obtaining real estate tax exemptions acceptable to the DoD; and · new construction may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service expense and development costs, delayed leasing and possible termination of our management contracts (particularly with respect to our military housing privatization projects). In addition, any new development or management activities, regardless of whether or not they are ultimately successful, typically will require a substantial portion of the time and attention of our management. Development and management activities also are subject to risks relating to the inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, the necessary zoning, land-use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. The development and operation of real estate projects entails certain risks, including risks that costs of a project may exceed original estimates, and that the project will fail to conform to building plans, specifications and timetables, which may in turn be affected by strikes, weather, government regulations and other conditions beyond our control. In addition, we may become liable for injuries and accidents occurring on our properties and for environmental liabilities related to our property sites. 34 Our management has limited prior experience operating a REIT or a public company. These limitations may impede the ability of our management to execute our business plan successfully and operate our business profitably. Our management has limited prior experience in operating a REIT or in managing a publicly owned company, or managing growth at level that may occur in the future. We cannot assure you that the operating performance of our student housing properties and military housing privatization projects will not decline under our management. We may be unable to hire additional personnel on a timely basis. Therefore, you should be especially cautious in drawing conclusions about the ability of our management team to execute our business plan. Specific Risks Related to Our Student Housing Business Virtually all of our student housing leases, which typically have a 12-month lease term, become subject to renewal with existing student residents or lease-up with new student residents prior to the start of the academic year at colleges and universities. If we are unable to renew or lease-up our student housing properties prior to the start of the academic year, our chances of leasing these properties during subsequent months is reduced, and correspondingly, our rents and operating results will be adversely affected. As a result of the student demand for rental housing during the several months prior to the beginning of the academic year at colleges and universities, which typically lasts from January through July, we generally lease our student housing properties to students under 12-month leases during this period. During this lease-up period, we typically will execute the majority of our leases for student housing units and therefore are dependent on the effectiveness of the marketing efforts of our on-site management teams. Because the terms of these leases will end at, or near the same time, we must re-lease the majority of our student housing units during this limited timeframe. If our marketing and leasing efforts are unsuccessful during this limited lease-up period, we may be unable to lease a substantial majority of our student housing units. Consequently, the failure to adequately market and lease-up our properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We face significant competition from university-owned on-campus student housing, from other off-campus student housing properties and from traditional multi-family housing located near colleges and universities. On-campus student housing has certain advantages over off-campus student housing in terms of physical proximity to the university campus and integration of on-campus facilities into the academic community. Colleges and universities can generally avoid real estate taxes and borrow funds at lower interest rates than we and other private owners and operators can. Currently, the off-campus student housing industry is fragmented with no participant holding a significant market share. We also compete with national and regional owner-operators of off-campus student housing in a number of markets, as well as with smaller local owner-operators. Our properties often compete directly with a number of student housing complexes that are located near or in the same general vicinity of many of our properties. These competing student housing complexes may be newer than our properties, located closer to campus, charge less rent, possess more attractive amenities or offer more services or shorter terms or more flexible leases. Rental income at a particular property could also be affected by a number of other factors, including the construction of new on-campus and off-campus residences, increases or decreases in the general levels of rents for housing in competing communities, increases or decreases in the number of students enrolled at one or more of the colleges or universities in the property’s market and other general economic conditions. We believe that a number of other large national companies with substantial financial and marketing resources may be potential entrants in the student housing business. The entry of one or more of these companies could increase competition for students and for the acquisition, development and management of other student housing properties. 35 Our student housing operations may be adversely affected by changing university admission and housing policies and our inability to maintain relationships with local colleges and universities. A change in university admission policies could adversely affect our ability to lease our student housing properties. For example, if a university reduces the number of student admissions or requires that a certain class of students (e.g., freshmen) live in a university-owned facility, the demand for beds at our properties may be reduced and our occupancy rates may decline. We may be unable to modify our marketing efforts to compensate for a change in a college’s or university’s admission policy prior to the commencement of the annual lease-up period or any additional marketing efforts may be unsuccessful. In addition, our ability to successfully lease our student housing properties depends on a number of factors, including maintaining good relationships with college and university communities (especially in connection with colleges and universities that refer students to us) and our continued ability to attract student residents to our properties. Many colleges and universities assist their students in the identification of attractive student-friendly off-campus housing through the distribution of off-campus property materials and the recommendation of college- and university-approved off-campus housing properties on their web sites. If colleges and universities change their policies on recommending off-campus student housing to their students, or cease distribution of off-campus student housing marketing materials to their students, our ability to attract student residents and to lease and collect rents on our student housing properties could be adversely affected. Consequently, the failure to maintain relationships with local colleges and universities could have a material adverse effect on our student housing business. We may be unable to successfully acquire, develop and manage student housing properties on favorable terms. Our future growth within the student housing business is dependent upon our ability to successfully acquire or develop new properties on favorable terms. As we acquire or develop additional properties, we will be subject to risks associated with managing new properties, including lease-up and integration risks. Newly-acquired properties may not perform as expected and may have characteristics or deficiencies unknown to us at the time of acquisition. During at least the first half of 2007, we may seek to acquire or develop new student housing properties solely through joint ventures with third parties. There can be no assurance that future acquisition and development opportunities will be available to us on terms that meet our investment criteria, that we will be able to identify suitable joint venture partners on terms acceptable to us, or that we will be successful in capitalizing on such opportunities. Our ability to capitalize on such opportunities will be largely dependent upon external sources of capital that may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms and successfully operate them may expose us to the following significant risks: · potential inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other real estate investors; · we may be unable to locate acceptable joint venture partners with whom we would negotiate to acquire and/or develop the properties; · competition from other potential acquirers may significantly increase a property’s purchase price; · we may be unable to finance our equity portion of an acquisition on favorable terms or at all; · we may have to incur significant capital expenditures to improve or renovate acquired properties; · we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations; · market conditions may result in higher than expected vacancy rates and lower than expected rental rates; and 36 · we may acquire properties subject to liabilities without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, to the sellers, or with liabilities that are unknown to us, such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of our properties and claims for indemnification by members, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of our properties. Our failure to finance property acquisitions on favorable terms, or operate acquired properties to meet our financial expectations, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The lenders of certain non-recourse mortgage indebtedness that we assume or place on our properties could have recourse against us for the full amounts of their loans under certain circumstances. As of December 31, 2006, we had $1,028.3 million in aggregate principal amount of mortgage debt secured by our properties. In general, mortgage debt is non-recourse to our subsidiary that owns the property and places the mortgage debt on the property, and will be non-recourse to us. However, the terms of each of the loans to which the mortgage debt relates include provisions that enable the lender to have recourse to the borrower generally if the borrower misrepresented certain facts or committed fraud. In addition, there are provisions under our current line of credit with Wachovia Bank, National Association that could result in an event of default to the extent we experience a material default under certain of our mortgage indebtedness relating to our properties. If one or more of the borrowers under our mortgage indebtedness exercises its rights to recourse against us for the full amount of the mortgage debt outstanding under their loans, our liquidity and financial condition could be adversely affected. Specific Risks Related to our Military Housing Business Certain military bases for which we own and operate a military housing privatization project have been approved for reduction of troops or closure under the Base Realignment and Closure, or BRAC, regulations. Our operating revenues from these projects and the value of our equity interest in the projects may be reduced, and our overall military housing segment revenues could be adversely affected with respect to the military bases under any of these military housing privatization projects. As part of the DoD’s substantial reduction in the size of the U.S. military following the end of the Cold War, the federal government undertook four rounds of BRAC beginning in 1988, and again in 1991, 1993 and 1995. The fifth round of BRAC was initiated in 2004 and was completed on November 9, 2005, when, under current legislation, the final list of additional bases recommended for realignment or closure was approved by both President Bush and Congress. The BRAC law sets out a process that includes specific dates for government action and the creation of an independent commission appointed by the President. By way of background, the DoD released its initial recommendations for BRAC in May 2005, and the BRAC Commission then voted to amend the DoD’s initial list on July 19, 2005. Under the BRAC Commission’s revisions, several bases were removed from the DoD’s list of bases targeted for closure, including the Submarine Base in New London, Connecticut and the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery, Maine, both of which are part of our Navy Northeast Region military housing privatization project. In addition, the BRAC Commission also proposed a less significant realignment at the Fort Eustis base under our Fort Eustis/Fort Story project in Newport News, Virginia than was proposed by the DoD. However, the BRAC Commission proposed to close the Naval Air Station in Brunswick, Maine, which had been recommended by the DoD to be realigned. Finally, the BRAC Commission voted to uphold the DoD’s recommendation to close the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, DC. In September 2005, President Bush accepted the BRAC Commission’s recommendations in their entirety. On November 9, 2005, the BRAC round was completed when Congress approved the BRAC Commission’s recommendations in their entirety. Under the final BRAC list as compared to the original DoD recommendations, the possible number of affected military housing units covered by our existing projects was reduced from 2,500 to 700 units, which remaining 700 units are located at the Naval Air Station in Brunswick, Maine. We believe that the 37 closure of the Walter Reed Army Medical Center will not result in the loss of housing units, as these housing units are likely to be utilized by personnel who will be relocated from serving at Walter Reed to serving at nearby military medical facilities. If a base for which we maintain a privatization project is realigned or closed, our main source of tenants, members of the U.S. military and their families, will not continue to require housing at or near the base, resulting in a decreased rental revenue stream. This in turn may jeopardize our ability to collect future fees, and the value of our equity interest in the project could be adversely affected due to a reduction in its scope, to the extent that we are unable to re-lease any vacant units. The military housing privatization initiative had not been undertaken at the time of previous BRAC rounds, and therefore there is no historical information regarding the impact of a base closure on a military housing privatization project. To date, there has been no indication from the DoD or the BRAC Commission that the federal government has factored into its analysis the possible effects that a base closure or realignment resulting from BRAC could have with respect to the outstanding debt financing for a project. In addition, prior BRAC rounds have shown that even once a base is approved for closure or realignment, the actual closing or realignment of the base could take several years to be completed. Accordingly, management currently expects that the closure of the Naval Air Station in Brunswick, Maine will not occur for at least three years. We are unable to determine with any certainty, however, the specific impact, and the timing of any such impact, that base closures and realignments at our projects will have on our military housing operating results, other than the possible cessation or reduction of fees related to the affected bases. In addition, it is inherent in the nature of military service that members of the military may be deployed and stationed away from a particular base for an extended period of time or permanently be reassigned to another base. As a result of such absences, dependents may move out of military housing facilities resulting in vacant housing units to be managed and re-leased by us. Typical military housing lease agreements, which have a one-year lease term and continue month-to-month thereafter, provide that a military resident may terminate a lease and be released from any further obligations under the lease upon receipt of orders requiring the resident to be deployed or temporarily or permanently stationed away from the base for more than 90 days by providing us with proof of orders and an appropriate letter from the resident’s commanding officer. If we are unable to re-lease these vacant units, the management fee revenue derived from the project’s rental revenues will decrease, and the project may be unable to be appropriately funded for construction and renovation of units throughout the term of the project. We also may be unable to receive any other fees that we may have otherwise earned under the project, and the projected, or any, return on our investment in the project. Any such effect could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If there are significant numbers of base closures, force reductions or troop deployments that affect our existing military housing privatization projects, we may be unable to achieve the anticipated operating revenues to be derived from these projects and our results of operations may be adversely affected. As a result of the anticipated closure of the Brunswick Naval Air Station covered by our Navy Northeast Region military housing privatization project, our joint venture with the Department of the Navy that owns the project must modify the terms of the project documents to amend various construction scope and timing requirements that were set prior to the BRAC announcement. Certain initial construction requirements under the original scope have not been met due to construction delays at bases slated for closure, and therefore the joint venture is currently in default under the terms of the trust indenture relating to the bonds issued to finance the project. The exercise of any default remedies by the bondholders relating to this project may adversely impact the operations of the project and our equity investment in the project. As a result of the initial BRAC recommendations relating to the Submarine Base in New London, Connecticut, the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery, Maine, and the Naval Air Station in Brunswick, Maine, each of which are included in our Navy Northeast Region project, our joint venture with the Navy 38 that owns the project delayed construction of new housing units at these bases throughout 2005 and 2006. Once the final BRAC recommendations as approved by Congress removed the Submarine Base and Naval Shipyard from the closure list, the joint venture re-commenced construction at those two locations but has continued to delay construction at the Brunswick Naval Air Station. The project documents that were executed at the time of award of the project to our joint venture with the Navy did not provide for a reduced scope for the project in the event that bases under the project were targeted for reduction or closure. As a result, the project documents still contemplate that we will complete the original scope of project and contain covenants that require completion of construction of a certain number of housing units at each base included in the project by times that were agreed upon prior to the BRAC announcements. While we are currently working with the Navy to modify the project documents to reduce the scope of the project in light of the closure of the Brunswick Naval Air Station, the joint venture may be unable to complete the necessary amendments prior to the date that such construction scope and time requirements are required to be met and cured, and such inability to complete the necessary amendments in time could trigger a default under the project documents. In addition, due to the aforementioned construction delays, the joint venture was unable to meet a requirement to deliver a certain number of new construction housing units under the terms of the trust indenture that covers the bonds originally issued to finance the project. The joint venture was required to provide notice of this anticipated default to the bondholder representative and other related parties under the terms of the trust indenture, and did so in July 2006 and December 2006. As a result of this technical default, the trust indenture provides that a majority of the bondholders or the bond trustee can elect to declare all of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the bonds immediately due and payable. Such an acceleration of the bonds could result in the foreclosure on all or a portion of the project assets to the extent that the project’s available cash is insufficient to pay the bondholders in full. While the bonds are nonrecourse to us, to the extent that the bondholders are able to foreclose on all or a portion of the project, our future income stream from the project and our initial equity investment in the joint venture would be significantly or completely impaired. There also can be no guarantee that we will be able to complete amendments to the project documents and trust indenture needed to address the reduced scope of the project prior to the triggering of other events of default under the terms of such documents. The joint ventures that own our military housing privatization projects have high leverage ratios which could cause us to lose cash flows and our investments in those projects if the joint ventures are unable to pay their debt service obligations. Typically, up to 90% of the capitalization of the joint ventures that own our military housing privatization projects is debt, such as through the sale of taxable bonds to the public. These joint ventures generally are not required to be consolidated with our operations, and as a result this indebtedness is not reflected on our balance sheet. As a result of the high leverage ratios of these joint ventures, reductions in their revenues could impair their ability to service their debt. For example, if the BAH paid to members of the U.S. military is reduced, the personnel is reduced at the bases where our projects are located or these bases are closed, the revenue generated by these joint ventures could decrease. In addition, to the extent that any of our projects are restructured, resulting in a significant loss of end-state housing units covered by the project, the revenues generated by the project would be reduced and could materially impair the ability to make payments to bondholders for bonds issued in connection with the project’s financing. If any of the joint ventures covering our military housing privatization projects cannot service its indebtedness, we may not be paid with respect to certain projects on our development, construction, renovation and/or management fees, which would adversely affect our operating results. We also could lose our entire initial equity and any other additional investments in the project, which could adversely affect our financial condition. 39 Our ability to earn development, construction/renovation and management fees, including related incentive fees, depends on the joint ventures that own our military housing privatization projects achieving specified operating milestones and thresholds. The joint ventures that own our military housing privatization projects derive substantially all of their revenues from the BAH of their tenants. This revenue is then paid out by the joint ventures according to a distribution “waterfall” plan set forth in the joint ventures’ governing documents. Other than the standard management fee we earn, which is typically 2% to 3% of the BAH-related project revenues, and other disbursements, such as routine maintenance, utilities, taxes and insurance, no funds are available to be paid out to us until the joint ventures’ debt service obligations are satisfied. Thereafter, we only earn incentive management fees, preferential and other returns and on-going construction/renovation and development fees if the joint venture achieves operating milestones and thresholds specified in their governing documents, such as maintaining a certain number of end-state housing units online or completing the construction or renovation of a certain number of housing units by certain dates. Due to the inherent inability to predict possible delays in construction or renovation as a result of weather or unknown site conditions (such as environmental or structural concerns), our joint ventures with the military could experience construction/renovation delays that could impact the joint venture’s ability to meet deadlines or achieve operating milestones/thresholds. Our joint ventures have historically sought change orders in order to approve certain construction/renovation delays or approve additional draws needed to complete construction/renovation work relating to such delays. These change orders must be approved by the lenders associated with the financing of the project, and there can be no guarantee that the joint venture’s change orders will be approved in order to meet the operating milestones/thresholds under the project documents, or at all. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the joint ventures will achieve these operating milestones and thresholds, or that if the joint ventures achieve these milestones and thresholds, that funds will remain to pay incentive management fees, preferential and other returns and on-going construction/renovation and development fees. If the joint ventures fail to achieve these milestones and thresholds or, if funds are not available to pay incentive management fees, preferential and other returns and on-going construction/renovation and development fees, the operating results of our military housing business could fluctuate significantly over the course of the project and could suffer. We rely on key partners and contractors in connection with the construction and development of our military housing privatization projects, and our inability to maintain these relationships or to engage new partners or subcontractors under commercially acceptable terms to us could impair our ability to successfully complete the construction and development of our military housing privatization projects and to obtain new military housing privatization projects. We are dependent upon our relationships with partners and subcontractors in connection with the construction, renovation and development of our military housing privatization projects. Particularly, our management team has relationships with Centex Construction Company, LLC, The Benham Companies, LLC, and Phelps Development, LLC. Subject to the terms of our agreements with these construction, renovation and design partners and contractors, these parties provide services to those military housing privatization projects in which they are involved. To the extent that we are unable to maintain our relationships with these partners and contractors or to engage new partners and contractors under terms acceptable to us, our ability to complete a project in a timely fashion, or at a profit, may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for military housing privatization projects or other fixed-price work, we could experience losses in the performance of these projects. In addition, if a partner or subcontractor was unable to deliver its services according to our negotiated terms with them for any reason, including the deterioration of its financial condition, another subcontractor would need to be obtained to perform the services, potentially at a higher price. This may result in the significant delay or additional costs associated with performance under our military housing privatization projects, the adverse effect on our operating results through a reduction in 40 the profit to be realized, or the recognition of a loss on a project for which the services were needed. In addition, if we are unable to successfully manage the provision of services by our partners and contractors, we may not be awarded future military housing privatization projects. We are subject to the risks associated with conducting business with the federal government, such as the government’s discontinuation of federal funding for some or all of its military housing privatization projects and the need to win new military housing privatization projects through a competitive bidding process. We are subject to risks associated with conducting business with the federal government. The DoD, pursuant to its authority granted under the 1996 National Defense Authorization Act, has approved, as of March 9, 2007, the award of 78 military housing privatization projects to private owners, and the future award of an additional 41 projects. Any Congressional action to reduce budgetary spending by the DoD could limit the continued funding of these private-sector projects and could limit our ability to obtain additional privatization projects, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. The risks of conducting business with the federal government also include the risk of civil and criminal fines and the risk of public scrutiny of our performance at high profile sites. In addition, privatization projects are currently awarded pursuant to a competitive bidding process, which differs procedurally with respect to each U.S. military branch. Generally, after a proposed site has been identified by a military branch for privatization, prospective companies must submit a proposal complying with specified guidelines demonstrating that the company will be able to successfully complete the project in accordance with the government requirements. The project winner is awarded the exclusive right to develop, construct, renovate and manage family housing at a military base throughout the duration of the ground lease, typically for a 50-year period. The competition pursuing privatization projects currently consists of a small, distinguished list of national and international developers, owners and operators of commercial and residential real estate. We cannot predict whether the number of companies that we compete against for the award of privatization projects will increase significantly in the future, or that we will be able to effectively compete against other private owners for projects awarded in the future. The termination of the DoD’s authority to grant privatization projects, the reduction of government funding for such projects and our inability to effectively compete for the award of future projects could have a material adverse effect on our military housing business and, correspondingly, on our operating results and financial condition. If Congress does not approve appropriations each year relating to the provision of the BAH paid to members of the U.S. military, which is the primary source of rental revenues under our military housing privatization projects, or if BAH were eliminated, our operating revenues and projected returns on investments from our military housing privatization projects would be significantly reduced. Each year Congress must appropriate a budget for BAH for all of the branches of the U.S. military. We cannot assure you that such appropriations will be made in any given year, the appropriation each year will occur on a timely basis, or the amount of BAH appropriated will be sufficient to keep up with escalations in cost of living expenses. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the method of calculation, timing of payment, analysis of comparable market rents, cost of living increases or other issues affecting the amount and receipt of BAH by members of the U.S. military will not change from time to time, with possible material adverse consequences for the amount of operating revenues generated by our military housing privatization projects. The foregoing description of BAH is based on current law and DoD procedures. Congress can change the law and the DoD can revise its procedures at any time. We cannot assure you that such changes will not be made and, if changes are made, such changes may have a material adverse effect on the level of our operating revenues generated by our privatization projects. 41 If we are unable to reach definitive agreements regarding the military housing privatization projects that are under exclusive negotiations with the U.S. military or as to which we are participating in a solicitation process, we would be unable to recover any costs incurred during the period of exclusivity or solicitation. When we are initially selected for a military housing privatization project through the bidding process, we receive only the right to enter into exclusive negotiations with the applicable U.S. military branch, and the award of the project to us is subject to final approval from the U.S. military branch and Congress. During this exclusivity period, or during a pre-award solicitation period, each of which typically lasts between six months to one year, we will develop and present our plans to develop, construct, renovate and manage the project and may incur significant costs during this process. These costs include, among other things, surveyors, equipment, vehicles, on-site personnel salary and wages, inventory, and office and administrative set-up costs. We cannot assure you that we will receive final approval from Congress on the award of any projects currently under exclusive negotiations or as to which we are participating in a solicitation process, or that the U.S. military branch will not decide to award the project to a competitor at the end of our exclusive negotiations or the solicitation process. If we do not receive final approval on the award of the project from the U.S. military branch or Congress, we may be unable to recover all of the costs that we have incurred during the exclusivity period or the solicitation process through our general military housing operations. Our failure to recover costs that we incur in connection with military housing privatization projects that are under exclusive negotiations or as to which we are participating in a solicitation process may cause the operating results of our military housing business to be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Organization and Structure Our Board of Trustees may authorize the issuance of additional shares that may cause dilution. Our declaration of trust authorizes our Board of Trustees, without shareholder approval, to: · amend the declaration of trust to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of beneficial interest or the number of shares of beneficial interest of any class that we have the authority to issue; · authorize the issuance of additional common or preferred shares, or units of our operating partnership which may be convertible into common shares; and · classify or reclassify any unissued common shares or preferred shares and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or reclassified shares, including preferred shares that have preference rights over the common shares with respect to dividends, liquidation, voting and other matters or common shares that have preference rights with respect to voting. The issuance of additional shares could be substantially dilutive to our existing shareholders. Our Board of Trustees may approve the issuance of a class or series of common or preferred shares with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our Board of Trustees may classify or reclassify any unissued common or preferred shares and establish the preferences and rights (including the right to vote, participate in earnings and convert into common shares) of any such shares. Therefore, our Board of Trustees could authorize the issuance of a class or series of common or preferred shares with terms and conditions which could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of the common shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then current market price of our common shares. 42 Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions taken that are not in your best interests. Our declaration of trust authorizes us and our bylaws require us to indemnify and advance expenses to our trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the fullest extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, our declaration of trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers for money damages, except for liability resulting from: · actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or · a final judgment based upon a finding of active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was material to the cause of action adjudicated. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our trustees and officers than might otherwise exist. Our ownership limitations may restrict business combination opportunities. To qualify as a REIT under the Code, no more than 50% of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code to include certain types of entities) during the last half of each taxable year (other than our first REIT taxable year). Our declaration of trust prohibits, subject to certain exceptions, direct or indirect ownership (including by virtue of applicable constructive ownership rules) by any person of more than 7.1% of our outstanding common shares (as determined by reference to number or value, whichever is more restrictive), other than (i) Gary M. Holloway, Sr. and certain related persons, who are permitted in the aggregate to own up to 20% of the number or value of our outstanding common shares, whichever is more restrictive, (ii) Steven Roth and certain related persons, who are permitted in the aggregate to own up to 8.5% of the number or value of our common shares, whichever is more restrictive and (iii) Vornado Realty L.P., certain persons related to Vornado Realty L.P., certain of transferees or assignees of Vornado Realty L.P. or related persons and affiliates of such transferees or assignees, to which no ownership limit applies. Generally, common shares owned by affiliated owners will be aggregated for purposes of the ownership limitation. The definition of “person” in our declaration of trust is broader than the definition of “individual” that applies under the Code for purposes of the REIT qualification requirement that no more than 50% of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals. As a result, our declaration of trust will prohibit share ownership in some circumstances where the ownership would not cause a violation of the REIT ownership requirement. Any transfer of our common shares that would violate the ownership limitation under our declaration of trust will be null and void, and the intended transferee will acquire no rights in such shares. Instead, such common shares will be designated as “shares-in-trust” and transferred automatically to a trust effective at the close of business on the day before the purported transfer of such shares. The beneficiary of a trust will be one or more charitable organizations named by us. The ownership limitation could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other transaction in which holders of common shares might receive a premium for their common shares over the then current market price or which such holders might believe to be otherwise in their best interests. The ownership limitation provisions also may make our common shares an unsuitable investment vehicle for any person seeking to obtain, either alone or with others as a group, ownership of more than 7.1% in number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding common shares. Our executive officers and certain of our trustees may experience conflicts of interest in connection with their ownership interests in our operating partnership. Certain of our executive officers and trustees, including Gary M. Holloway, Sr., may experience conflicts of interest relating to their ownership interests in our operating partnership. With regard to ownership interests in our operating partnership, as of December 31, 2006, Mr. Holloway beneficially 43 owned approximately 24.0% limited partnership interest in our operating partnership and our other executive officers, including Bruce F. Robinson, who is also one of our trustees, collectively owned approximately 1.8% of the limited partnership interests in our operating partnership. Michael D. Fascitelli, also one of our trustees, is the president and a member of the Board of Trustees of Vornado Realty Trust, which, indirectly through its operating partnership and an affiliated entity, owned an aggregate of 7,337,857 units, or approximately 10.1% of the limited partnership interests in our operating partnership, and 2,517,247 of our common shares, or approximately 6.1% of GMH Communities Trust. Conflicts may arise as a result of these persons’ ownership interests in, or their affiliates’ interests in, our operating partnership to the extent that their interests as limited partners diverge from our interests, particularly with regard to transactions, such as sales of assets or the repayment of indebtedness, that could be in our best interests and our shareholders but may have adverse tax consequences to the limited partners in our operating partnership. Gary M. Holloway, Sr. may have conflicts of interest as a result of his ownership of an entity that provides services to us, leases space from us. Mr. Holloway owns a 100% equity interest in GMH Capital Partners, LP, an entity that provides property management and real estate brokerage services for office, retail, industrial, multi-family and corporate properties as well as general contracting and construction management services and acquisition, disposition and development services. GMH Capital Partners, LP is not contractually prohibited from competing with us. In addition, GMH Capital Partners, LP leases space in our corporate headquarters, which we acquired in connection with our initial public offering. As a result of the ongoing ownership interests that Mr. Holloway owns in GMH Capital Partners, LP, there may be conflicts of interest with regard to the terms that we enter into pursuant to our lease to GMH Capital Partners, LP. In addition, we may engage GMH Capital Partners, LP to provide certain real estate brokerage services for us in the future. Because Gary M. Holloway, Sr. owns a significant number of units in our limited partnership, he may be able to exert substantial influence on our management and operations, which may prevent us from taking actions that may be favorable to our shareholders. As of December 31, 2006, Mr. Holloway beneficially owned approximately 24.0% of the outstanding units of limited partnership interest in our operating partnership. If the maximum number of units redeemable for our common shares by Mr. Holloway were actually redeemed, Mr. Holloway would beneficially own approximately 20.0% of our outstanding common shares. Although the terms of our declaration of trust limit Mr. Holloway’s ability to redeem his limited partnership interests to up to 20.0% of our outstanding common shares, such an ownership concentration of our shares may adversely affect the trading price of our common shares if investors perceive disadvantages to owning shares in companies with controlling shareholders. If we were to redeem the maximum number of Mr. Holloway’s units for common shares and Mr. Holloway were to retain those shares, he would have the ability to exert significant influence over all matters requiring approval of our shareholders, including the election and removal of trustees and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of our assets. In addition, he could influence significantly the management of our business and affairs. This concentration also could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of us or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to you. Further, Mr. Holloway’s concentration of ownership in our operating partnership affords him the ability to exert substantial influence over matters, such as a merger, consolidation or sale of substantially all of the assets of our operating partnership, all of which, under certain circumstances, require the consent of limited partners owning more than 50% of the partnership interest of the limited partners (other than those held by us or our subsidiaries). 44 One of our trustees may have a conflict of interest as a result of his affiliation with Vornado Realty Trust, one of our largest shareholders on a fully-diluted basis. Mr. Fascitelli, one of our trustees, is the president and a member of the Board of Trustees of Vornado Realty Trust. As described elsewhere in this report, our operating partnership was initially formed in July 2004 through a joint venture between entities owned by Mr. Holloway and Vornado Realty L.P., the operating partnership of Vornado Realty Trust. In connection with our formation transaction, we issued a warrant to Vornado Realty L.P., under which Vornado has purchased 6,666,667 units of limited partnership in our operating partnership. On May 2, 2006, the expiration date under the warrant, Vornado received an additional 1,817,247 of our common shares through a net, or cashless, exercise feature of the warrant. Vornado also purchased 700,000 shares in our 2005 follow-on offering of common shares. Vornado CCA Gainesville, LLC, an affiliate of Vornado Realty L.P., also owns 671,190 units of limited partnership interest in our operating partnership, which were issued in connection with the contribution of an interest in a student housing property to our operating partnership at the time of our initial public offering. In addition, we are required to register for resale the common shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant and the other units currently held by Vornado CCA Gainesville, LLC. Under the terms of the warrant, Vornado has the right to designate for election to our Board of Trustees Mr. Fascitelli or such other officer of Vornado who is reasonably acceptable to us, so long as it holds common shares or units of limited partnership interest in our operating partnership acquired under the warrant at an aggregate price of not less than $10.0 million. Vornado exercised this right in August 2005, and Mr. Fascitelli was elected to serve on our Board of Trustees on August 10, 2005. As of result of the foregoing, Mr. Fascitelli could experience conflicts of interest between his duties to us and our shareholders and his duties to Vornado and its shareholders. Some of our executive officers and trustees have other business interests that may hinder their ability to allocate sufficient time to the management of our operations, which could jeopardize our ability to execute our business plan. Some of our executive officers and trustees have other business interests that may hinder their ability to spend adequate time on our business. Mr. Holloway retains 100% of the interests in GMH Capital Partners, LP, an entity that we did not acquire in our formation transactions, and several other entities relating to GMH Associates. GMH Capital Partners, LP provides various property management services and real estate brokerage services for office, retail, industrial, multi-family and corporate properties as well as construction management services and acquisition, disposition and development services. Mr. Holloway’s employment agreement permits him to continue to provide management and other services to this entity, and the provision of such services may reduce the time Mr. Holloway is able to devote to our business. Maryland law may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Maryland law provides broad discretion to our Board of Trustees with respect to its duties in considering a change in control of our company, including that our board is subject to no greater level of scrutiny in considering a change in control transaction than with respect to any other act by our Board. The Maryland Business Combination Act restricts mergers and other business combinations between our company and an interested shareholder. An “interested shareholder” is defined as any person who is the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of our common shares and also includes any of our affiliates or associates that, at any time within the two year period prior to the date of a proposed merger or other business combination, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our voting power. A person is not an interested shareholder if, prior to the most recent time at which the person would otherwise have become an interested shareholder, our Board of Trustees approved the transaction which otherwise would have resulted in the person becoming an interested shareholder. For a period of five years 45 after the most recent acquisition of shares by an interested shareholder, we may not engage in any merger or other business combination with that interested shareholder or any affiliate of that interested shareholder. After the five year period, any merger or other business combination must be approved by our Board of Trustees and by at least 80% of all the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares and two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting shares other than the interested shareholder or any affiliate or associate of the interested shareholder unless, among other things, the shareholders (other than the interested shareholder) receive a minimum price for their common shares and the consideration received by those shareholders is in cash or in the same form as previously paid by the interested shareholder for its common shares. Our Board of Trustees has adopted a resolution, reflected in our bylaws, providing that we have opted out of the Maryland Business Combination Act. However, our Board of Trustees may opt at any time, without the approval of our shareholders, to make the statute applicable to us again. To the extent it applies, the business combination statute could have the effect of discouraging offers from third parties to acquire us and increasing the difficulty of successfully completing this type of offer. Additionally, the “control shares” provisions of the MGCL are applicable to us as if we were a corporation. These provisions eliminate the voting rights of shares acquired in quantities so as to constitute “control shares,” as defined under the MGCL. Our bylaws provide that we are not bound by the control share acquisition statute. However, our Board of Trustees may opt to make the statute applicable to us at any time, and may do so on a retroactive basis. We depend on the business relationships and experience of Gary M. Holloway, Sr. and our other executive officers, the loss of whom could threaten our ability to execute our strategies. We depend on the services of Gary M. Holloway, Sr., our president, chief executive officer and chairman of our Board of Trustees, to carry out our business strategies. If Mr. Holloway were to leave the Company, it may be more difficult to locate attractive acquisition targets and manage the properties that we acquire. Additionally, as we expand, we will continue to need to attract and retain qualified additional senior executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our senior executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Certain of our executive officers have agreements that provide them with benefits in the event their employment is terminated by us without cause, by the executive for good reason, or under certain circumstances following a change of control of our company. We have entered into employment agreements with each of our executive officers, including Gary M. Holloway, Sr., Bruce F. Robinson, John DeRiggi, Joseph M. Macchione and J. Patrick O’Grady that provide them with severance benefits if their employment is terminated by us without cause, by them for good reason (which includes, among other reasons, failure to be elected to the Board with respect to Mr. Holloway’s agreement, and any election by us not to renew our agreements with them), or under certain circumstances following a change of control of our company. Certain of these benefits, including the related tax indemnity with respect to the employment agreements for Mr. Holloway and Mr. Robinson, could prevent or deter a change of control of our company that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders. Our Board of Trustees may alter our investment policies at any time without shareholder approval, and the alteration of these policies may adversely affect our financial performance. Our major policies, including our policies and practices with respect to investments, financing, growth, debt, capitalization, REIT qualification and distributions, are determined by our Board of Trustees. Our Board of Trustees may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without a vote of our shareholders. Accordingly, our shareholders will have limited control over changes in our policies. 46 We have set a targeted range for the amount of indebtedness that we incur from time to time. This target ratio may be amended or waived at any time without shareholder approval and without notice to our shareholders. In addition, our declaration of trust and bylaws do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we or our operating partnership may incur. If we become highly leveraged, then the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and harm our financial condition. Through a wholly owned subsidiary, we are the sole general partner of our operating partnership, and, should the subsidiary be disregarded, we could become liable for the debts and other obligations of our operating partnership beyond the amount of our investment. We are the sole general partner of our operating partnership, GMH Communities, LP, through our wholly owned subsidiary, GMH Communities GP Trust, a Delaware statutory trust, and we also owned units of limited partnership interest in our operating partnership equal to approximately 56.0% of the total partnership interests in our operating partnership as of December 31, 2006. If GMH Communities GP Trust were disregarded as the general partner, we would be liable for our operating partnership’s debts and other obligations. In such event, if our operating partnership is unable to pay its debts and other obligations, we will be liable for such debts and other obligations beyond the amount of our investment in our operating partnership. These obligations could include unforeseen contingent liabilities. Risks Relating to Real Estate Investments Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our targeted properties and harm our financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid. Our ability to quickly sell or exchange any of our student housing properties or military housing privatization projects in response to changes in economic and other conditions will be limited. No assurances can be given that we will recognize full value for any property that we are required to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to respond rapidly to changes in the performance of our investments could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our targeted properties may not achieve forecasted results or we may be limited in our ability to finance future acquisitions, which may harm our financial condition and operating results, and we may not be able to make the distributions required to maintain our REIT status. Acquisitions and developments entail risks that the properties will fail to perform in accordance with expectations and that estimates of the costs of improvements necessary to acquire, develop and manage properties will prove inaccurate, as well as general investment risks associated with any new real estate investment. We anticipate that acquisitions and developments will largely be financed through externally generated funds such as borrowings under credit facilities and other secured and unsecured debt financing and from issuances of equity securities. Because we must distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain, each year to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our ability to rely upon income from operations or cash flow from operations to finance our growth and acquisition activities will be limited. Accordingly, if we are unable to obtain funds from borrowings or the capital markets to finance our acquisition and development activities, our ability to grow would likely be curtailed, amounts available for distribution to shareholders could be adversely affected and we could be required to reduce distributions, thereby jeopardizing our ability to maintain our status as a REIT. Newly-developed or newly-renovated properties do not have the operating history that would allow our management to make objective pricing decisions in acquiring these properties. The purchase prices of these properties will be based in part upon projections by management as to the expected operating results of such properties, subjecting us to risks that these properties may not achieve anticipated operating results 47 or may not achieve these results within anticipated time frames. In addition, we have witnessed a compression of capitalization rates for the student housing properties that we are targeting under our investment criteria. During 2006, capitalization rates declined, and may continue to decline in the future. We, therefore, may be unable to purchase student housing properties at attractive capitalization rates. If we suffer losses that are not covered by insurance or that are in excess of our insurance coverage limits, we could lose investment capital and anticipated profits. We have general liability insurance that provides coverage for bodily injury and property damage to third parties resulting from our ownership of the properties that are leased to, and occupied by, our residents. However, there are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, wars and acts of terrorism that may be uninsurable or not insurable at a price we can afford. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors also might make it impracticable to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under these circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected property. If any of these or similar events occur, it may reduce our return from the property and the value of our investment. Capital expenditures for property renovations may be greater than forecasted and may adversely impact rental payments by our residents and our ability to make distributions to shareholders. Properties, particularly those that consist of older structures, have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including periodic replacement of furniture, fixtures and equipment. Renovation of properties involves certain risks, including the possibility of environmental problems, construction cost overruns and delays, uncertainties as to market demand or deterioration in market demand after commencement of renovation and the emergence of unanticipated competition from other properties. All of these factors could adversely impact rental payments by our residents, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. All of our student housing properties are subject to property taxes, and some of our military housing properties may be subject to property taxes. If these taxes were to be significantly increased by applicable authorities in the future, our operating results and ability to make distributions to our shareholders would be adversely affected. Our student housing properties are subject to real and personal property taxes, and some of our military housing properties may be subject to real and personal property taxes, that may increase as property tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. As the owner of the student housing properties and a member of or partner in the joint venture entity that owns the military housing privatization projects that cover military housing properties, we will be responsible, in whole or in part, for payment of the taxes to the government. Increases in property tax rates may adversely affect our operating results and our ability to make expected distributions to our shareholders. Our performance and the value of our common shares will be affected by risks associated with the real estate industry. Our ability to make expected dividend payments to our shareholders and the value of our common shares depend largely on our ability to generate cash revenues in excess of expenses, debt obligations and capital expenditure requirements. Factors that may adversely affect our ability to generate cash revenues include: · changes in the national, regional and local economic climate; 48 · rising interest rates; · local conditions such as an oversupply of, or a reduction in demand for, student and military housing; · increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities and real estate taxes; · attractiveness of our properties to residents; · costs of complying with changes in governmental regulations; and · competition from other real estate developers of student housing and companies pursuing the award of future military housing privatization projects. In addition, periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or declining demand for real estate, or the public perception that any of these events may occur, could result in a general decline in rents or an increased incidence of defaults under existing leases, which would adversely affect us. As the owner and lessor of real estate, we are subject to risks under environmental laws, the cost of compliance with which, and any violation of which, could materially adversely affect us. Our operating expenses could be higher than anticipated due to the cost of complying with existing and future environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations. Various environmental laws may impose liability on a current or prior owner or operator of real property for removal or redemption of hazardous or toxic substances. Current or prior owners or operators may also be liable for government fines and damages for injuries to persons, natural resources and adjacent property. These environmental laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence or disposal of the hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of complying with environmental laws could materially adversely affect amounts available for distribution to our shareholders and could exceed the value of all of our properties. In addition, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances, or the failure of our residents to properly dispose of or remediate such substances, may adversely affect our residents or our ability to use, sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral which, in turn, could reduce our revenue and our financing ability. We intend to obtain Phase I environmental assessments on any properties we acquire, manage or develop. However, even if the Phase I environmental reports do not reveal any material environmental contamination, it is possible that material environmental liabilities may exist of which we are unaware. Although the leases for our student housing properties generally will require our student residents to comply with laws and regulations governing their operations, and to indemnify us for certain environmental liabilities that they create, the scope of their obligations may be limited. We cannot assure you that our student residents or their guarantors will be able to fulfill their indemnification obligations. In addition, environmental and occupational health and safety laws constantly are evolving, and changes in laws, regulations or policies, or changes in interpretations of the foregoing, could create liabilities where none exists today. With regard to our military housing properties, the federal government will not indemnify us for any environmental liability on these properties. As a result, we may be exposed to substantial liability to remove or remediate hazardous or toxic substances, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Future terrorist attacks in the U.S. could harm the demand for and the value of our properties. Future terrorist attacks in the U.S., such as the attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001, and other acts of terrorism or war, or threats of the same, could diminish the demand for and the value of our properties. The military bases at which we have privatization projects may be terrorist targets. Also, certain 49 of our properties are near universities which contain well-known landmarks and may be perceived as more likely terrorist targets than similar, less recognizable properties. A decrease in demand in our markets would make it difficult for us to renew or re-lease our properties at lease rates equal to or above historical rates. Terrorist attacks also could directly impact the value of our properties through damage, destruction, loss, or increased security costs, and the availability of insurance for such acts may be limited or may cost more. If we receive casualty proceeds, we may not be able to reinvest such proceeds profitably or at all, and we may be forced to recognize taxable gain on the affected property. We may incur significant costs complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar laws. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. For example, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, or FHAA, requires apartment properties first occupied after March 13, 1990, to be accessible to the handicapped. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. Noncompliance with the ADA or FHAA could result in the imposition of fines or an award or damages to private litigants and also could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature. We cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with the ADA, FHAA or any other legislation. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA, FHAA or any other legislation, we could be materially and adversely affected. We may incur significant costs complying with other regulations. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various other federal, state and local regulatory requirements, such as state and local fire and life safety requirements. If we fail to comply with these various requirements, we might incur governmental fines or private damage awards. If we are not in compliance with existing requirements, or if existing requirements change, we may have to make significant unanticipated expenditures that would materially and adversely affect us. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares The market price and trading volume of our common shares may be volatile in the future. The market price of our common shares may be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in the future. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries similar or related to ours and that have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performances. These broad market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our common shares. Furthermore, our operating results and prospects may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or may be lower than those of companies with comparable market capitalizations, which could lead to a material decline in the market price of our common shares. In addition, the trading volume in our common shares may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common shares will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common shares include: · the likelihood that an active market for our common shares will continue; · actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; · changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; 50 · publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; · increases in market interest rates may lead purchasers of our common shares to demand a higher dividend rate which, if our distributions do not rise, will mean our share price will fall; · changes in market valuations of similar companies; · adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; · additions or departures of key management personnel; · actions by institutional shareholders; · speculation in the press or investment community; · general market and economic conditions; and · future offerings of debt securities or preferred shares, which would be senior to our common shares upon liquidation, and additional offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing shareholders and may be senior to our common shares for the purposes of dividend distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt or additional offerings of equity securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior or subordinated notes and series of preferred shares or common shares. Upon our liquidation, holders of our debt securities and preferred shares and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common shares. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders or reduce the market price of our common shares, or both. Our preferred shares, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common shares. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common shares bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common shares and diluting their share holdings in us. Common shares eligible for future sale may have adverse effects on our share price. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of common shares or the availability of shares for future sales, on the market price of our common shares. We are required to register for resale up to 34,141,864 shares, which are either currently held by Vornado Realty L.P. as a result of its exercise of a warrant or which shares may be received by various persons and entities upon redemption of units of limited partnership interest in our operating partnership. We expect to file a registration statement covering the resale of these shares as soon as possible after the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Sales of substantial amounts of common shares, or the perception that these sales could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares. Under the terms of our operating partnership agreement, the common shares eligible for issuance upon redemption of units of limited partnership interest in our operating partnership, including units that we may issue to third parties in the future, are required to be registered within nine months following the date of initial issuance of such units. In addition, we filed a registration statement with respect to the 2,000,000 common shares authorized for issuance under our Equity Incentive Plan in connection with the grant of restricted common share awards, option grants or other equity-based awards authorized by the Compensation Committee of our Board of Trustees. We also may issue from time to time additional common shares or units of limited partnership interest in our operating partnership in connection with the acquisition of properties and we may grant additional demand or piggyback registration rights in connection with these issuances. Sales of substantial amounts of common shares or the perception that these sales could occur may adversely effect the prevailing market 51 price for our common shares. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair our ability to raise capital through a sale of additional equity securities. The market value of our common shares could decrease based on our performance and market perception and conditions. The market value of our common shares may be based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and current and future cash dividends, and may be secondarily based upon the market value of our underlying assets. We expect the market price of our common shares to be influenced by the dividend on our common shares relative to market interest rates. Rising interest rates may lead potential buyers of our common shares to expect a higher dividend rate, which would adversely affect the market price of our common shares. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt and adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and make distributions to our shareholders. Tax Risks Associated with Our Status as a REIT If we fail to qualify for or lose our tax status as a REIT, we would be subject to significant adverse consequences and the value of our common shares may decline. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code. We elected to be taxed as a REIT upon the filing of our tax return for the taxable year ended December 31, 2004. Our qualification as a REIT depends, and will continue to depend, on our ability to meet various requirements concerning, among other things, the ownership of our outstanding common shares, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amount of our distributions to our shareholders. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, and the interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we will be successful in operating so as to qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, regulations, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws relating to, or the federal income tax consequences of, qualification as a REIT. It is possible that future economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations may cause our Board of Trustees to revoke the REIT election, which it may do without shareholder approval. If we revoke, lose or fail to achieve our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available for distribution because: · we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing our taxable income; · we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates, and we might need to borrow money or sell assets in order to pay any such tax; · we also could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and · unless we are entitled to relief under statutory provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to pay dividends to shareholders, and all dividends to shareholders will be subject to tax to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. As a result of all of these factors, a failure to achieve, or a loss or revocation of our REIT status could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and would adversely affect the value of our common shares. 52 In addition, in circumstances where we fail to qualify as a REIT, it is likely that we will also have failed to comply with the restrictions on our activities and those of the operating partnership that we agreed to with Vornado Realty L.P., in which case we would also be liable for any damages incurred by Vornado Realty L.P., certain of its affiliates and its transferees and assignees, together with certain of their affiliates, as a result of such failure. To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required under the Code to distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. In addition, we will be subject to income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income, including any net capital gains. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we will be compelled to rely on third party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain this financing on favorable terms or at all. Any additional indebtedness that we incur will increase our leverage. Our access to third party sources of capital depends, in part, on: · general market conditions; · our current debt levels and the number of properties subject to encumbrances; · our current performance and the market’s perception of our growth potential; · our cash flow and cash dividends; and · the price of our common shares. If we cannot obtain capital from third party sources, we may not be able to acquire or develop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our debt service obligations or make the cash dividends to our shareholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Failure to make required distributions would subject us to tax. In order to qualify as a REIT, each year we must distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gain. To the extent that we satisfy the distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed income. In addition, we will incur a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which our distributions in any year are less than the sum of: · 85% of our ordinary income for that year; · 95% of our capital gain net income for that year; and · 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. We intend to pay out our income to our shareholders in a manner that satisfies the distribution requirement and avoids corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax. We may be required to make distributions to shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Differences in timing between the recognition of income and the related cash receipts or the effect of required debt amortization payments could require us to borrow money or sell assets to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. In the future, we may borrow to pay distributions to our shareholders and the limited partners of our operating partnership. Any funds that we borrow would subject us to interest rate and other market risks. 53 Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our shares. As a result, we may be required to forgo attractive business or investment opportunities in order to meet these tests. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to operate solely on the basis of maximizing profits. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common shares. At any time, the federal income tax laws or regulations governing REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws or regulations may be amended. Any of those new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect us or you as a shareholder. Effective for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2002, the Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, which we refer to as the Jobs and Growth Tax Act, generally reduces the maximum rate of tax applicable to most domestic noncorporate taxpayers on dividend income from regular C corporations to 15%. This reduces substantially the so-called “double taxation” (that is, taxation at both the corporate and shareholder levels) that has generally applied to corporations that are not taxed as REITs. Generally, dividends from REITs will not qualify for the dividend tax reduction because, as a result of the dividends paid deduction to which REITs are entitled, REITs generally do not pay corporate level tax on income that they distribute to shareholders. The implementation of the Jobs and Growth Tax Act may cause domestic noncorporate investors to view stocks of non-REIT corporations as more attractive relative to shares of REITs than was the case previously. We cannot predict what impact this legislation may have on the value of our common shares. The income earned by our taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to federal income tax. We own active taxable REIT subsidiaries that earn income that, if earned by us outside of a taxable REIT subsidiary, would jeopardize our status as a REIT. For example, our taxable REIT subsidiaries earn fees from developing, constructing, renovating and managing military housing properties and providing management services to certain third party owners of student housing, as well as fees for providing certain noncustomary services for our student housing properties, that would not be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT income tests. A taxable REIT subsidiary is taxed as a regular C corporation. The income from the activities described above and other income earned by our taxable REIT subsidiaries is therefore subject to a corporate level tax, notwithstanding that we qualify as a REIT. We may not conduct all of our third party student housing management business through a taxable REIT subsidiary, which could jeopardize our ability to comply with one of the REIT gross income requirements. In general, at least 95% of our gross income for each taxable year must consist of income that is qualifying income for purposes of the 75% REIT gross income test, other types of interest and dividends, gain from the sale or disposition of shares or securities, or any combination of these. Fees that we earn from providing property management services to third party owners of student housing properties do not constitute qualifying income for purposes of the 95% REIT gross income test. We conduct all (or as nearly all as possible) of our third party student housing property management business through a taxable REIT subsidiary. The fees we earn from that business other than through a taxable REIT subsidiary, together with all other income that does not constitute qualifying income under the 95% gross income test, cannot exceed 5% of our total gross income. If we fail to manage our business in a manner that allows us to satisfy the 95% REIT gross income test, the portion of income associated with the amount in excess of this 95% threshold would be taxed at 100%, and we could lose our REIT qualification which would, among other 54 things, cause all of our earnings to be subject to federal income tax and would reduce our cash available for distributions to shareholders. To maintain our REIT status, we will be required to comply with a number of requirements relating to the relative values of our assets, and we may be required to limit activities conducted through a taxable REIT subsidiary. As a REIT we will be required to satisfy, as of the close of each quarter of each of our taxable years, a number of requirements relating to the relative values of our assets, including requirements that not more than 25% of the value of our total assets be represented by assets other than real estate assets, cash and cash items and government securities and that not more than 20% of the value of our total assets be represented by securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries. We intend to monitor our compliance with the various asset test requirements. As a number of these requirements are based on value, however, it is possible that the IRS could successfully argue for a value of our nonqualifying assets that was such that we would fail to satisfy a REIT asset requirement. In such circumstances, we could fail to qualify as a REIT for the taxable year of such failure and the following four taxable years. To maintain our status as a REIT, no more than 20% of the value of our total assets may consist of the securities of our taxable REIT subsidiaries, such as GMH Military Housing, LLC and College Park Management TRS, Inc. Certain of our activities, such as development, construction, renovation, and management services, must be conducted through a taxable REIT subsidiary in order for us to maintain our REIT status. In addition, certain non-customary services generally must be provided by a taxable REIT subsidiary or an independent contractor from which we do not derive any income. If the revenues from such activities create a risk that the value of our interest in our taxable REIT subsidiaries, based on revenues or otherwise, approach the 20% threshold, we will be forced, in order to maintain our REIT status, to curtail such activities or take other steps to remain under the 20% threshold. Since our formation transactions, the development, construction, renovation, and management services provided to our military housing privatization projects and the management services provided to certain third party owners of student housing have been conducted through taxable REIT subsidiaries. Consequently, income earned by these taxable REIT subsidiaries is subject to corporate income tax. We may be subject to tax if our taxable REIT subsidiaries provide services to our tenants other than on an arm’s length basis. If our taxable REIT subsidiaries provide services to our tenants for other than an arm’s length charge (payable from the tenants or from us), we would be subject to a 100% tax on the difference between the amount in fact derived by the taxable REIT subsidiary and the arm’s length charge. In addition, if our taxable REIT subsidiaries pay more than an arm’s length charge to our operating partnership, GMH Communities Trust or any of their affiliates for services or overhead provided to the taxable REIT subsidiaries, we would be subject to a 100% tax on the difference between the amount in fact paid by the taxable REIT subsidiary and the arm’s length charge. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 55 