ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We could record future losses on our investment securities portfolio. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an additional impairment that is other than temporary, which could result in material losses to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, continued failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair values of the trust preferred securities coul d decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continue to deteriorate and there remains limited liquidity for these securities. 31 We have been negatively affected by current market and economic conditions. A continuation or worsening of these conditions could adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. The severe economic recession of 2008 and 2009 and the weak economic recovery since then have resulted in continued uncertainty in the financial markets and the expectation of weak general economic conditions, including high levels of unemployment, continuing through 2010. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. The credit quality of loan and investment securities portfolios has deteriorated at many financial institutions and the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. Our commercial and multifamily real estate loan customers have experienced increases in vacancy rates and declines in rental rates for both multifa mily and commercial properties. Financial companies’ stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. A continuation or worsening of these conditions could result in reduced loan demand and further increases in loan delinquencies, loan losses, loan loss provisions, costs associated with monitoring delinquent loans and disposing of foreclosed property, and otherwise negatively affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. Concentration of loans in our primary market area, which has recently experienced an economic downturn, may increase risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the State of Connecticut, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in the state. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in the State of Connecticut have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in this market would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, recently some of our larger financial institution competitors, offer loans with lower interest rates on more attractive terms than those offered by Putnam Bank, which we expect to continue in the foreseeable future. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. 60; The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by our competition may limit our ability to increase our interest earning assets. For additional information see “Business of Putnam Bank—Competition.” Because We Intend to Increase Our Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Loan Originations, Our Lending Risk Will Increase and Downturns in the Real Estate Market or Local Economy Could Adversely Affect Our Earnings. Commercial real estate and commercial loans generally have more risk than residential mortgage loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and commercial loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. Commercial real estate and commercial loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely impact the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans. As our commercial real estate and comm ercial loan portfolio increases, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. If Economic Conditions Deteriorate, Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Could Be Adversely Affected as Borrowers’ Ability to Repay Loans Declines and the Value of the Collateral Securing Our Loans Decreases. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. Because we originate a significant number of mortgage loans secured by residential real estate, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for such loans. At June 30, 2010, loans secured by real estate represented 96.9% of our total loans, substantially all of which are secured by properties located in Windham County. Adverse changes in the economy also may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. As of June 30, 2010, the unemployment rate in Windham County, Connecticut was 10.5%, and the New London County unemployment rate was 8.5% compared to the national unemployment rate of 9.5% and the unemployment rate for Connecticut as a whole of 8.9%. 32 If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.03% of total loans and 42.13% of nonperforming loans at June 30, 2010. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Future Changes in Interest Rates May Reduce our Profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: ● the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and ● the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The rates we earn on our assets and the rates we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Like many savings institutions, our liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers speed up prepayments of mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called, requiring us to reinvest tho se cash flows at lower interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Management of Market Risk.” In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. At June 30, 2010, our “rate shock” analysis prepared by a third-party consultant indicates that our net portfolio value would decrease by $6.7 million if there was an instantaneous 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Management of Market Risk.” Stockholders Other than Our Mutual Holding Company Own a Minority of PSB Holdings, Inc.’s Common Stock and Are Not Be Able to Exercise Voting Control Over Most Matters Put to a Vote of Stockholders. Public stockholders own a minority of the outstanding shares of PSB Holdings, Inc. common stock. As a result, stockholders other than Putnam Bancorp, MHC are not able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. Putnam Bancorp, MHC owns a majority of PSB Holdings, Inc.’s common stock and, through its Board of Directors, is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. The same directors and officers who manage PSB Holdings, Inc. and Putnam Bank also manage Putnam Bancorp, MHC. Putnam Bancorp, MHC may exercise its voting control to prevent a sale or merger transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium for their shares. 33 Our Stock Value May be Negatively Affected by Federal Regulations Restricting Takeovers and our Mutual Holding Company Structure. Federal Regulations Restricting Takeovers. Current OTS policy prohibits the acquisition of a mutual holding company subsidiary by any person or entity other than a mutual holding company or a mutual institution. The Mutual Holding Company Structure May Impede Takeovers. Putnam Bancorp, MHC, as the majority stockholder of PSB Holdings, Inc., is able to control the outcome of virtually all matters presented to stockholders for their approval, including a proposal to acquire PSB Holdings, Inc. Accordingly, Putnam Bancorp, MHC may prevent the sale of control or merger of PSB Holdings, Inc. or its subsidiaries even if such a transaction were favored by a majority of the public stockholders of PSB Holdings, Inc. The Corporate Governance Provisions in our Charter and Bylaws May Prevent or Impede the Holders of a Minority of our Common Stock from Obtaining Representation on our Board of Directors. Provisions in our charter and bylaws may prevent or impede holders of a minority of our common stock from obtaining representation on our board of directors. For example, our board of directors is divided into three staggered classes. A classified board makes it more difficult for stockholders to change a majority of the directors because it generally takes at least two annual elections of directors for this to occur. Second, our charter provides that there will not be cumulative voting by stockholders for the election of our directors which means that Putnam Bancorp, MHC, as the holder of a majority of the shares eligible to be voted at a meeting of stockholders, may elect all of our directors to be elected at that meeting. Third, our bylaws contain procedures and timetables for a stockholder wanting to make a nomination for the elec tion of directors or a proposal for new business at a meeting of stockholders, the effect of which may be to give our management time to solicit its own proxies in an attempt to defeat any dissident slate of nominations if management thinks it is in the best interest of stockholders generally. Office of Thrift Supervision Policy on Remutualization Transactions Could Prohibit Acquisition of PSB Holdings, Inc., which May Lower our Stock Price. Current Office of Thrift Supervision regulations permit a mutual holding company to be acquired by a mutual institution in a remutualization transaction. However, the Office of Thrift Supervision has issued a policy statement indicating that it views remutualization transactions as raising significant issues concerning disparate treatment of minority stockholders and the mutual interests of the mutual holding company and as raising issues concerning the effect on the mutual interests of the acquiring entity. Under certain circumstances the Office of Thrift Supervision intends to give these issues special scrutiny and reject applications providing for the remutualization of a mutual holding company unless the applicant can clearly demonstrate that the Office of Thrift Supervision’s concerns are not warranted in the particular cas e. Should the Office of Thrift Supervision prohibit or otherwise restrict these transactions in the future, our per-share stock price may be adversely affected. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. Newly enacted financial reform legislation will change the bank regulatory framework, create an independent consumer protection bureau that will assume the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and establish more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. The legislation will also result in new regulations affecting the lending, funding, trading and investment activities of banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of new legislation and regulatory actions in response to these conditi ons, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These measures are likely to increase our costs of doing business and may have a significant adverse effect on our lending activities, financial performance and operating flexibility. In addition, these risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance. Furthermore, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in an attempt to help the overall economy, has, among other things, kept interest rates low through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. If the Federal Reserve Board increases the federal funds rate, overall interest rates will likely rise, which may negatively impact the housing markets and the U.S. economic recovery. In addition, deflationary pressures, while possibly lowering our operating costs, could have a significant negative effect on our borrowers, especially our business borrowers, and the values of underlying collateral securing loans, which could negatively affect our financial performance. 34 Recently enacted financial reform legislation may have an adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends, which would adversely affect the value of our common stock. The value of PSB Holdings, Inc.’s common stock is significantly affected by our ability to pay dividends to our public stockholders. PSB Holdings, Inc.’s ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is subject to the ability of Putnam Bank to make capital distributions to PSB Holdings, Inc., and also to the availability of cash at the holding company level in the event earnings are not sufficient to pay dividends. Moreover, our ability to pay dividends and the amount of such dividends is affected by the ability of Putnam Bancorp, MHC, our mutual holding company, to waive the receipt of dividends declared by PSB Holdings, Inc. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations allow federally chartered mutual holding companies to waive dividends without taking into account the amount of waived dividends in determining an appropriate exchange ratio in the event of a conversion of a mutual holding company to stock form. However, under the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act, the powers and duties of the Office of Thrift Supervision relating to mutual holding companies will be transferred to the Federal Reserve Board within one year of the enactment of the legislation (subject to an extension of up to six months), and the Office of Thrift Supervision will be eliminated. Accordingly, the Federal Reserve Board will become the new regulator of PSB Holdings, Inc. and Putnam Bancorp, MHC. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides that a mutual holding com pany will be required to give the Federal Reserve Board notice before waiving the receipt of dividends, and sets forth the standards for granting a waiver, including a requirement that waived dividends be considered in determining an appropriate exchange ratio in the event of a conversion of the mutual holding company to stock form. The Dodd-Frank Act, however, further provides that the Federal Reserve Board may not consider waived dividends in determining an appropriate exchange ratio in a conversion to stock form by any federal mutual holding company, such as Putnam Bancorp, MHC, that has waived dividends prior to December 1, 2009. The Federal Reserve Board historically has generally not allowed mutual holding companies to waive the receipt of dividends, and there can be no assurance as to the conditions, if any, the Federal Reserve Board will place on future dividend waiver requests by grandfathered mutual holding companies such as Putnam Bancorp, MHC. Financial reform legislation recently enacted by Congress will, among other things, eliminate the Office of Thrift Supervision, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act will eliminate our current primary federal regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, and require Putnam Bank to be regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the primary federal regulator for national banks). The Dodd-Frank Act also authorizes the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to supervise and regulate all savings and loan holding companies, including mutual holding companies, like PSB Holdings, Inc. and Putnam Bancorp, MHC, in addition to bank holding companies that it currently regulates. 0;As a result, the Federal Reserve Board’s current regulations applicable to bank holding companies, including holding company capital requirements, will apply to savings and loan holding companies like PSB Holdings, Inc. and Putnam Bancorp, MHC. These capital requirements are substantially similar to the capital requirements currently applicable to Putnam Bank, as described in “Supervision and Regulation—Federal Banking Regulation—Capital Requirements.” Moreover, Putnam Bancorp, MHC will require the approval of the Federal Reserve Board before it may waive the receipt of any dividends from PSB Holdings, Inc., and there is no assurance that the Federal Reserve Board will approve future dividend waivers or what conditions it may impose on such waivers. See “—Recently enacted financial reform legislation may have an adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends, which would adversely affect the value of our common stock.” 160;The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for the insured depository subsidiaries, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. Bank holding companies with assets of less than $500 million are exempt from these capital requirements. The legislation also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as Putnam Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. The new legislation also weakens the federal preemption available for national banks and f ederal savings associations, and gives state attorneys general the ability to enforce applicable federal consumer protection laws. 35 The legislation also broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per depositor, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013. Lastly, the Dodd-Frank Act will increase stockholder influence over boards of directors by requiring companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission t o promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve Board to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. It is difficult to predict at this time what impact the new legislation and implementing regulations will have on community banks, including the lending and credit practices of such banks. Moreover, many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will not take effect for at least a year, and the legislation requires various federal agencies to promulgate numerous and extensive implementing regulations over the next several years. Although the substance and scope of these regulations cannot be determined at this time, it is expected that the legislation and implementing regulations, particularly those provisions relating to the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and mutual holding company dividend waivers, will increase our operating and compliance costs and restrict our ability to pay dividends, respectively.< /font> We are subject to extensive regulatory oversight. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There also is increased scrutiny of our compliance practices generally and particularly with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Our failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements could lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions and legal proceedings. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations are likely to have a significant effect on the financial services industry, which are likely to increase operating costs and reduce profitability. Regulator y or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, and could cause us to change or limit some of our products and services, or the way we operate our business. Legislative or regulatory responses to perceived financial and market problems could impair our rights against borrowers. Current and future proposals made by members of Congress would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans, and may limit the ability of lenders to foreclose on mortgage collateral. If proposals such as these, or other proposals limiting Putnam Bank’s rights as a creditor, were to be implemented, we could experience increased credit losses on our loans and mortgage-backed securities, or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. Recent health care legislation could increase our expenses or require us to pass further costs on to our employees, which could adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. Legislation enacted in 2010 requires companies to provide expanded health care coverage to their employees, such as affordable coverage to part-time employees and coverage to dependent adult children of employees. Companies will also be required to enroll new employees automatically into one of their health plans. Compliance with these and other new requirements of the health care legislation will increase our employee benefits expense, and may require us to pass these costs on to our employees, which could give us a competitive disadvantage in hiring and retaining qualified employees. 36 The requirement to account for certain assets at estimated fair value, and a proposal to account for additional financial assets and liabilities at estimated fair value, may adversely affect our results of operations. We report certain assets, including securities, at fair value, and a recent proposal would require us to report most of our financial assets and liabilities at fair value. Generally, for securities that are reported at fair value, we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize observable market inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their estimated fair value, we may record losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Under current accounting requirements, elevated delinquencies, defaults, and estimated losses from the disposition of collateral in our private-label mortgage-backed securities portfolio may require us to recognize additional other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to our securities portfolio . The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in the estimated fair value of the asset and our estimate of the anticipated recovery period. Under proposed accounting requirements, we may be required to record reductions in the fair value of nearly all of our financial assets and liabilities (including loans) either through a charge to net income or through a reduction to accumulated other comprehensive income. Accordingly, we could be required to record losses on assets such as loans where we have no intention to sell the loan and expect the loan to be repaid in full. This could result in a decrease in net income, a decrease in our stockholders’ equity, or both. Any future Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance premiums or special assessments will adversely affect our earnings. As part of its plan to restore the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation’s insurance reserve ratio to 1.15% of estimated insured deposits, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation imposed a special assessment equal to five basis points of assets less Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009, which was payable on September 30, 2009. In addition, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation increased its quarterly deposit insurance assessment rates and amended the method by which rates are calculated. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund to increase from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits by September 30, 2020, although banks with assets of less than $10 billion are exempt from any additional assessments to achieve the higher reserve ratio. On November 12, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also approved a final rule requiring insured depository institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009, their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. Estimated assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all 2010 are based upon the assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009, with three basis points added for the 2011 and 2012 assessment rates. In addition, a 5% annual growth rate in the assessment base is assumed. Prepaid assessments are to be applied against the actual quarterly assessments until exhausted, and may not be applied to any special assessments that may occur in the future. Any unused prepayments will be returned to the institution on J une 30, 2013. On December 30, 2009, we prepaid $2.9 million in estimated assessment fees for the fourth quarter of 2009 through 2012. Actions the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation takes in the future could result in significantly higher deposit insurance premiums, special assessments, or prepaid assessments, which could have a significant affect on our earnings. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 