Item 1A. Risk Factors The following discussion highlights certain risks which may affect future operating results and share price. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for our existing and potential stockholders to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. Risks Relating to Our Business Because we depend on our ability to generate revenues from the sale of advertising, fluctuations in advertising spending could have an adverse effect on our operating results. The primary source of our revenues is the sale of advertising to our customers. Our advertising revenues accounted for approximately 99% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010. We believe that advertising spending on the Internet, as in traditional media, fluctuates significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • variations in expenditures by advertisers due to budgetary constraints; • the cancellation or delay of projects by advertisers; • the cyclical and discretionary nature of advertising spending; • general macro-economic conditions, as well as economic conditions specific to the Internet and online and offline media industry; and • the occurrence of extraordinary events, such as natural disasters, international or domestic terrorist attacks or armed conflict. Because all of our customers are in the IT industry, our revenues are subject to characteristics of the IT industry that can affect advertising spending by IT vendors. The IT industry is characterized by, among other things, volatile quarterly results, uneven sales patterns, short product life cycles, rapid technological developments, a heightened level of product obsolescence and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, our customers’ advertising budgets, which are often viewed as discretionary expenditures, may increase or decrease significantly over a short period of time. In addition, the advertising budgets of our customers may fluctuate as a result of: • weakness in corporate IT spending resulting in a decline in IT advertising spending; • increased concentration in the IT industry as a result of consolidations or bankruptcies, leading to a decrease in the number of current and prospective customers, as well as an overall reduction in advertising; 19 Table of Contents • reduced spending by combined entities following such consolidations; • the timing of advertising campaigns around new product introductions and initiatives; and • economic conditions specific to the IT industry. The continuing general economic, business, or industry conditions may adversely affect the business of the Company, as well as our ability to forecast financial results. The domestic and international economies continue to experience ongoing instability and limited growth. This period of instability has been magnified by factors including changes in the availability of credit, decreased business and consumer confidence and continuing high unemployment. These and other macro-economic conditions, including recent political unrest in the Middle East, have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and expectations of future global economic growth. If the economic climate in the U.S. and abroad does not improve or deteriorates, our customers or potential customers could reduce or delay their purchases of our offerings, which would adversely impact our revenues and our ability to sell our offerings, collect customer receivables and, ultimately, our profitability. Additionally, future economic conditions currently continue to have a high degree of inherent uncertainty. As a result, it continues to be difficult to estimate the level of growth or contraction for the economy as a whole, as well as for the various sectors of the economy, such as the IT market. Because all components of our budgeting and forecasting are dependent upon estimates of growth or contraction in the IT market and demand for our offerings, the prevailing economic uncertainties continue to render accurate estimates of future income and expenditures very difficult to make. We cannot predict the effect or duration of current economic conditions or the timing or strength of the economic recovery, worldwide or in the IT industry. Further adverse changes may occur as a result of soft global, domestic or regional economic conditions, wavering consumer confidence, unemployment, declines in stock markets, or other factors affecting economic conditions generally. These changes may negatively affect the sales of our offerings, increase exposure to losses from bad debts, increase the cost and decrease the availability of financing, or increase the risk of loss on investments. Lingering effects of financial market instability and continued uncertain conditions in the United States and global economies have in the past and could in the future adversely affect our revenues and operating results. We believe that the lingering effects of the instability affecting the financial markets and a further deterioration in the current business climate within the United States and/or other geographic regions in which we do business have had, and could continue to have, a negative impact on our revenue and operating results. Because all of our clients are in the IT industry, the success of our business is intrinsically linked to the health, and subject to market conditions, of the IT industry as well as regional, domestic and global economic weakness and uncertainty. In turn, many of our customers have reassessed and will, for the foreseeable future, be likely to continue to carefully scrutinize their spending on advertising campaigns. Prior market downturns in the IT industry have resulted in declines in advertising spending, which can cause longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchases by IT vendors and generally reduced expenditures for advertising and related services. Our revenues and profitability depend on the overall demand for advertising services from our customers. We believe that demand for our offerings has been in the past, and could be in the future, disproportionately affected by fluctuations, disruptions, instability or downturns in the economy and the IT industry, which may cause customers and potential customers to exit the industry or delay, cancel or reduce any planned expenditures for our advertising offerings. Furthermore, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers and prospects to lower cost offerings. In addition, the slowdown in the formation of new IT companies, and the decline in the growth of existing IT companies, may continue to cause a decline in demand for our offerings. 20 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations, and these fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and operating results. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the factors described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section, these factors include: • the spending priorities and advertising budget cycles of specific advertisers; • the addition or loss of advertisers; • the addition of new sites and services by us or our competitors; and • normal seasonal fluctuations in advertising spending. Due to such risks, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indicator of our future results. Due to the foregoing factors, it is also possible that our results of operations in one or more quarters may fall below the expectations of investors and/or securities analysts. In such an event, the trading price of our common stock is likely to decline. Our revenues are primarily derived from short-term contracts that may not be renewed. The primary source of our revenues is the sale of advertising to our customers, and we expect that this will continue to be the case for the foreseeable future. Our advertising contracts are primarily short-term, typically less than 6 months, and are generally subject to termination without substantial penalty by the customer at any time, generally with minimal notice requirements. We cannot assure you that our current customers will fulfill their obligations under their existing contracts, continue to participate in our existing programs beyond the terms of their existing contracts or enter into any additional contracts for new programs that we offer. If a significant number of advertisers or a few large advertisers decided not to continue advertising on our websites or conducting or sponsoring events, we could experience a rapid decline in our revenues over a relatively short period of time. If we are unable to deliver content and services that attract and retain users, our ability to attract advertisers may be affected, which could in turn have an adverse affect on our revenues. Our future success depends on our continued ability to deliver original and compelling content and services to attract and retain users. Our user base is comprised of corporate IT professionals who demand specialized websites and events tailored to the sectors of the IT products for which they are responsible and that they purchase. Our content and services may not be attractive to a sufficient number of users to attract advertisers and generate revenues consistent with our estimates. We also may not develop new content or services in a timely or cost-effective manner. Our ability to develop and produce this specialized content successfully is subject to numerous uncertainties, including our ability to: • anticipate and respond successfully to rapidly changing IT developments and preferences to ensure that our content remains timely and interesting to our users; • attract and retain qualified editors, writers and technical personnel; 21 Table of Contents • fund new development for our programs and other offerings; • successfully expand our content offerings into new platform and delivery mechanisms; and • promote and strengthen the brands of our websites and our name. If we are not successful in maintaining and growing our user base, our ability to retain and attract advertisers may be affected, which could in turn have an adverse affect on our revenues. Our inability to sustain our historical advertising rates could adversely affect our operating results. The market for advertising has fluctuated over the past few years. If we are unable to maintain historical pricing levels for advertising on our websites and for sponsorships at our events, our revenues could be adversely affected. Competition for advertisers is intense, and we may not compete successfully, which could result in a material reduction in our market share, the number of our advertisers and our revenues. We compete for potential advertisers with a number of different types of offerings and companies, including: broad-based media outlets, such as television, newspapers and business periodicals that are designed to reach a wide audience; general purpose portals and search engines; and offline and online offerings of media companies that produce content specifically for IT professionals, including International Data Group, United Business Media, QuinStreet, CNet and Ziff Davis Enterprise. Advertisers may choose our competitors over us not only because they prefer our competitors’ online and events offerings to ours, but also because advertisers prefer to utilize other forms of advertising offered by our competitors that are not offered by us and/or to diversify their advertising expenditures. Although less than 6% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010 were derived from advertisers located outside of North America, as we continue to expand internationally, as we did in 2008 by operating our own websites in the United Kingdom, in 2009 in India and Spain and, in 2010, operating in both China and Australia, we expect to compete with many of the competitors mentioned above, as well as with established media companies based in particular countries or geographical regions. Many of these foreign-based media companies will be larger than we are and will have established relationships with local advertisers. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result, we could lose market share to our competitors in one or more of our businesses and our revenues could decline. We depend upon Internet search engines to attract a significant portion of the users who visit our websites, and if we were listed less prominently in search result listings, our business and operating results would be harmed. We derive a significant portion of our website traffic from users who search for IT purchasing content through Internet search engines, such as Google, MSN, Bing and Yahoo! A critical factor in attracting users to our websites is whether we are prominently displayed in response to an Internet search relating to IT content. Search result listings are determined and displayed in accordance with a set of formulas or algorithms developed by the particular Internet search engine. The algorithms determine the order of the listing of results in response to the user’s Internet search. From time to time, search engines revise their algorithms. In some instances, these modifications may cause our websites to be listed less prominently in unpaid search results, which will result in decreased traffic from search engine users to our websites. Our websites may also become listed less prominently in unpaid search results for other reasons, such as search engine technical difficulties, search engine technical changes and changes we make to our websites. In addition, search engines have deemed the practices of some companies to be inconsistent with search engine guidelines and have decided not to list their websites in search result listings at all. If we are listed less prominently or not at all in search result listings for any reason, the traffic to our websites likely will decline, which could harm our operating results. If we decide to attempt to replace this traffic, we may be required to increase our marketing expenditures, which also could harm our operating results. 22 Table of Contents We may not innovate at a successful pace, which could harm our operating results. Our industry is rapidly adopting new technologies and standards to create and satisfy the demands of users and advertisers. It is critical that we continue to innovate by anticipating and adapting to these changes to ensure that our content-delivery platforms and services remain effective and interesting to our users, advertisers and partners. In addition, we may discover that we must make significant expenditures to achieve these goals. If we fail to accomplish these goals, we may lose users and the advertisers that seek to reach those users, which could harm our operating results. We may be unable to continue to build awareness of our brands, which could negatively impact our business and cause our revenues to decline. Our ability to build and maintain brand recognition is critical to attracting and expanding our online user base and attendance at our events. We intend to continue to build existing brands and introduce new brands that we hope will resonate with our targeted audiences, but we may not be successful. In order to promote these brands, in response to competitive pressures or otherwise, we may find it necessary to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel or otherwise increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining brand loyalty among our clients. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands effectively, or incur excessive expenses attempting to promote and maintain our brands, our business and financial results may suffer. Given the tenure and experience of our Chief Executive Officer and President, and their guiding roles in developing our business and growth strategy since our inception, our growth may be inhibited or our operations may be impaired if we were to lose the services of either of them. Our growth and success depends to a significant extent on our ability to retain Greg Strakosch, our Chief Executive Officer, and Don Hawk, our President, who co-founded the company and have developed, engineered and stewarded the growth and operation of our business since its inception. The loss of the services of either of these persons could inhibit our growth or impair our operations and cause our stock price to decline. We may not be able to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel cost-effectively, which could impact the quality of our content and services and the effectiveness and efficiency of our management, resulting in increased costs and losses in revenues. Our success depends on our ability to attract, hire and retain at commercially reasonable rates qualified technical, editorial, sales and marketing, customer support, financial and accounting, legal and other managerial personnel. The competition for personnel in the industries and geographies in which we operate is intense. Our personnel may terminate their employment at any time for any reason. Loss of personnel may also result in increased costs for replacement hiring and training. If we fail to attract and hire new personnel or retain and motivate our current personnel, we may not be able to operate our businesses effectively or efficiently, serve our customers properly or maintain the quality of our content and services. In particular, our success depends in significant part on maintaining and growing an effective sales force. This dependence involves a number of challenges, including: • the need to hire, integrate, motivate and retain additional sales and sales support personnel; 23 Table of Contents • the need to train new sales personnel, many of whom lack sales experience when they are hired; and • competition from other companies in hiring and retaining qualified sales personnel. We may fail to identify or successfully acquire and integrate businesses, products and technologies that would otherwise enhance our service offerings to our customers and users, and as a result our revenues may decline or fail to grow. We have acquired, and in the future may acquire or invest in, complementary businesses, products or technologies. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks including: • difficulty in assimilating the operations and personnel of acquired businesses; • potential disruption of our ongoing businesses and distraction of our management and the management of acquired companies; • difficulty in incorporating acquired technology and rights into our offerings and services; • unanticipated expenses related to technology and other integration; • potential failure to achieve additional sales and enhance our customer bases through cross marketing of the combined company’s services to new and existing customers; • potential detrimental impact to our pricing based on the historical pricing of any acquired business with common clients and the market generally; • application of complex accounting rules; • potential litigation resulting from our business combinations or acquisition activities; and • potential unknown liabilities associated with the acquired businesses. Our inability to integrate any acquired business successfully, or the failure to achieve any expected synergies, could result in increased expenses and a reduction in expected revenues or revenue growth. As a result, our stock price could fluctuate or decline. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in expanding into complementary sectors in the future, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The costs associated with potential acquisitions or strategic partnerships could dilute your investment or adversely affect our results of operations. In order to finance acquisitions, investments or strategic partnerships, we may use equity securities, debt, cash, or a combination of the foregoing. Any issuance of equity securities or securities convertible into equity may result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders, reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Any debt financing is likely to have financial and other covenants that could have an adverse impact on our business if we do not achieve our projected results. In addition, the related increases in expenses could adversely affect our results of operations. 24 Table of Contents We have limited protection of our intellectual property and could be subject to infringement claims that may result in costly litigation, the payment of damages or the need to revise the way we conduct our business. Our success and ability to compete are dependent in part on the strength of our proprietary rights, on the goodwill associated with our trademarks, trade names and service marks, and on our ability to use U.S. and foreign laws to protect them. Our intellectual property includes, among other things, our original content, our editorial features, logos, brands, domain names, the technology that we use to deliver our services, the various databases of information that we maintain and make available by license, and the appearances of our websites. We claim common law protection on certain names and marks that we have used in connection with our business activities. Although we have applied for and obtained registration of many of our marks in countries outside of the United States where we do business, we have not been able to obtain registration of all of our key marks in such jurisdictions, in some cases due to prior registration or use by third parties employing similar marks. In addition to U.S. and foreign laws, we rely on confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties and protective contractual provisions to safeguard our intellectual property. Policing our intellectual property rights worldwide is a difficult task, and we may not be able to identify infringing users. We cannot be certain that third party licensees of our content will always take actions to protect the value of our proprietary rights and reputation. Intellectual property laws and our agreements may not be sufficient to prevent others from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our content or technologies. In addition, others may develop non-infringing technologies that are similar or superior to ours. In seeking to protect our marks, copyrights, domain names and other proprietary rights, or in defending ourselves against claims of infringement that may be with or without merit, we could face costly litigation and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources. These claims could result in the need to develop alternative trademarks, content or technology or to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not have, in all cases, conducted formal evaluations to confirm that our technology and services do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. As a result, we cannot be certain that our technology, offerings, services or online content do not or will not infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. If we were found to have infringed on a third party’s intellectual property rights, the value of our brands and our business reputation could be impaired, and our business could suffer. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to correspond with existing and potential users by e-mail. We use e-mail as a significant means of communicating with our existing users. The laws and regulations governing the use of e-mail for marketing purposes continue to evolve, and the growth and development of the market for commerce over the Internet may lead to the adoption of additional legislation and/or changes to existing laws. If new laws or regulations are adopted, or existing laws and regulations are interpreted and/or amended or modified, to impose additional restrictions on our ability to send e-mail to our users or potential users, we may not be able to communicate with them in a cost-effective manner. In addition to legal restrictions on the use of e-mail, Internet service providers and others typically attempt to block the transmission of unsolicited e-mail, commonly known as “spam.” If an Internet service provider or software program identifies e-mail from us as “spam,” we could be placed on a restricted list that would block our e-mail to users or potential users who maintain e-mail accounts with these Internet service providers or who use these software programs. If we are unable to communicate by e-mail with our users and potential users as a result of legislation, blockage or otherwise, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 25 Table of Contents Changes in laws and standards relating to data collection and use, and the privacy of Internet users and other data could impair our efforts to maintain and grow our audience and thereby decrease our advertising revenue. We collect information from our users who register on our websites or for services, or respond to surveys. Subject to each user’s permission (or right to decline, which we refer to as an “opt-out”), we may use this information to inform our users of services that have indicated may be of interest to them. We may also share this information with our advertising clients for registered members who have elected to receive additional promotional materials and have granted us permission to share their information with third parties. We also collect information on our registered members/users based on their activity on our sites. The U.S. federal and various state governments have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution and use of personal information of Internet users. Several foreign jurisdictions, including the European Union, the United Kingdom and Canada, have adopted legislation (including directives or regulations) that may increase the requirements for collecting, or limit our collection and use of, information from Internet users in these jurisdictions. In addition, growing public concern about privacy, data security and the collection, distribution and use of personal information has led to self-regulation of these practices by the Internet advertising and direct marketing industry, and to increased federal and state regulation. Because many of the proposed laws or regulations are in their early stages, we cannot yet determine the impact these regulations may have on our business over time. Although, to date, our efforts to comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations have not hurt our business, additional, more burdensome laws or regulations, including more restrictive consumer privacy and data security laws, could be enacted or applied to us or our customers. Such laws or regulations could impair our ability to collect user information that helps us to provide more targeted advertising to our users, thereby impairing our ability to maintain and grow our audience and maximize advertising revenue from our advertising clients. Additionally, the US Federal Trade Commission (the “FTC”) and many state attorneys general are applying federal and state consumer protection laws to require that the online collection, use and dissemination of data, and the presentation of Web site content, comply with certain standards for notice, choice, security and access. Courts may also adopt these developing standards. In many cases, the specific limitations imposed by these standards are subject to interpretation by courts and other governmental authorities. In addition, on December 20, 2007, the FTC published for public comment proposed principles to address consumer privacy issues that may arise from so-called “behavioral targeting” (i.e. the tracking of a user’s online activities in order to deliver advertising tailored to his or her interests) and to encourage industry self-regulation. On February 12, 2009, following public comment, the FTC released a Staff Report with its revised principles for self-regulation of behavioral targeting. Although the FTC currently appears to be less concerned with “first-party” behavioral and contextual advertising (each being the types of behavioral targeting activities in which we are currently primarily engaged) than other types of behavioral targeting that include the storage of more potentially sensitive data or that collects information outside of the “traditional Web site context” (such as through a mobile device or by an ISP), the FTC has stated that it will continue to evaluate self-regulatory programs. Further, through a preliminary staff report published on October 1, 2010, the FTC indicated that it is considering regulations regarding behavioral targeting which may include implementation of a more rigorous opt-in regime. An opt-in policy would prohibit businesses from collecting and using information obtained through behavioral targeting activities from individuals who have not voluntarily consented. Among other things, the implementation of an opt-in regime could require substantial technical support and negatively impact the market for our services. Prompted by the FTC’s preliminary staff report, several legislators have introduced various online consumer privacy bills that would provide the FTC with the rulemaking authority it currently lacks to establish standards for an online opt-out mechanism to prohibit the collection of certain information. Additionally, Senators John McCain (R-Az.) and John Kerry (D-Mass.) are circulating proposed legislation to create an “online privacy bill of rights,” which will require companies to seek an individual’s permission to share his/her data. The senators plan to introduce the bill before a Senate hearing on “The State of Online Consumer Privacy” scheduled for March 16, 2011. A few states have also introduced legislation that, if enacted, would restrict or prohibit behavioral advertising within the state. In the absence of a federal law pre-empting their enforcement, such state legislation would likely have the practical effect of regulating behavioral advertising nationwide because of the difficulties behind implementing state-specific policies or identifying the location of a particular consumer. In the event of additional legislation in this area, our ability to effectively target our users may be limited. We believe that we are in compliance with applicable consumer protection laws that apply to us, but a determination by a state or federal agency or court that any of our practices do not meet these regulations could create liability to us, result in adverse publicity and affect negatively our businesses. New interpretations of these standards could also require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. In addition, several foreign governmental bodies, including the European Union, the United Kingdom and Canada have regulations dealing with the collection and use of personal information obtained from their citizens, some of which we have become subject to as a result of the expansion of our business internationally. Regulations in these territories have focused on the collection, use, disclosure and security of information that may be used to identify or that actually identifies an individual, such as an email address or a name. Further, within the European Union, certain member state data protection authorities regard IP addresses as personal information, and legislation adopted recently in the European Union requires informed consent for the placement of a cookie on a user device. We believe that we are in material compliance with such regulations, as applicable to us, however, such regulations and laws may be modified and new regulations and laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments (or developments stemming from enactment or modification of other laws) or the failure to anticipate accurately the application or interpretation of these laws could create liability to us, result in adverse publicity and affect negatively our businesses. 26 Table of Contents Increased exposure from loss of personal information could impose significant additional costs on us. Many states in which we operate have enacted regulations requiring us to notify customers in the event that certain customer information is accessed, or believed to have been accessed, without authorization and in some cases also develop proscriptive policies to protect against such unauthorized access. Such notifications can result in private causes of action being filed against us. Additionally, increasing regulatory demands are requiring us to provide protection of personal information to prevent identity theft. Should we experience a loss of protected data, efforts to regain compliance and address penalties imposed by such regulatory regimes could increase our costs. There are a number of risks associated with expansion of our business internationally that could adversely affect our business. We have license and other arrangements in various countries and maintain direct presences in the United Kingdom and India, as well as operations in China and Australia. In addition to facing many of the same challenges we face domestically, there are additional risks and costs inherent in expanding our business in international markets, including: • limitations on our activities in foreign countries where we have granted rights to existing business partners; • the adaptation of our websites and advertising programs to meet local needs and to comply with local legal regulatory requirements; • varied, unfamiliar and unclear legal and regulatory restrictions, as well as unforeseen changes in, legal and regulatory requirements; • more restrictive data protection regulation, which may vary by country; • difficulties in staffing and managing multinational operations; • difficulties in finding appropriate foreign licensees or joint venture partners; • distance, language and cultural differences in doing business with foreign entities; • foreign political and economic uncertainty; 27 Table of Contents • less extensive adoption of the Internet as an information source and increased restriction on the content of websites; • currency exchange-rate fluctuations; and • potential adverse tax requirements. As a result, we may face difficulties and unforeseen expenses in expanding our business internationally and, even if we attempt to do so, we may be unsuccessful, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of the laws and regulations of the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”), including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business in the PRC, and the enforcement and performance of the contractual arrangements between our wholly-owned subsidiary, TechTarget (HK) Limited (“TTGT HK”), and our affiliated Chinese entity, Keji Wangtuo (Beijing) Information Technology Co., Ltd (“Keji Wangtuo”), and its shareholders. The Company and TTGT HK are considered foreign persons under PRC law. As a result, the Company and TTGT HK are subject to PRC law limitations on foreign ownership of companies engaged in value-added telecommunications services, including internet-related services, and advertising. Accordingly, we operate our websites and our online advertising business in China through Keji Wangtuo, a company wholly-owned by two citizens of the PRC; we have no equity ownership interest in Keji Wangtuo. Keji Wangtuo holds the licenses and approvals necessary to operate our websites and online advertising business in China. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, TTGT HK, we have contractual arrangements with Keji Wangtuo and its shareholders, including a Management and Consulting Services Agreement, a Voting Proxy Agreement, an Equity Pledge Agreement and an Option Agreement, that allow us to substantially control and operate Keji Wangtuo, and give us the economic benefit of those operations. We cannot be sure that we will be able to enforce these contracts. In addition, such contractual arrangements may not prove as effective in exercising control over Keji Wangtuo as direct ownership. Although we believe we are in compliance with current PRC regulations, we cannot be sure that the Chinese Government would agree that our operating and equity arrangements with Keiji Wangtuo comply with Chinese law. If the Chinese government determines that we are not in compliance with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, block our websites in China, require us to restructure our Chinese operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business in China. Changes in regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. It is possible that new laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations in the United States and elsewhere will be adopted covering issues affecting our business, including: • privacy, data security and use of personally identifiable information; • copyrights, trademarks and domain names; and • marketing practices, such as e-mail or direct marketing. 28 Table of Contents Increased government regulation, or the application of existing laws to online activities, could: • decrease the growth rate of the Internet; • reduce our revenues; • increase our operating expenses; or • expose us to significant liabilities. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is still evolving. Therefore, we might be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Any impairment in the value of these important assets could cause our stock price to decline. We cannot be sure what effect any future material noncompliance by us with these laws and regulations or any material changes in these laws and regulations could have on our business, operating results and financial condition. As a creator and a distributor of content over the Internet, we face potential liability for legal claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we create or distribute. Due to the nature of content published on our online network, including content placed on our online network by third parties, and as a creator and distributor of original content and research, we face potential liability based on a variety of theories, including defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other legal theories based on the nature, creation or distribution of this information. Such claims may also include, among others, claims that by providing hypertext links to websites operated by third parties, we are liable for wrongful actions by those third parties through these websites. Similar claims have been brought, and sometimes successfully asserted, against online services. It is also possible that our users could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on information provided on our networks. In addition, we could be exposed to liability in connection with material posted to our Internet sites by third parties. For example, many of our sites offer users an opportunity to post unmoderated comments and opinions. Some of this user-generated content may infringe on third party intellectual property rights or privacy rights or may otherwise be subject to challenge under copyright laws. Such claims, whether brought in the United States or abroad, could divert management time and attention away from our business and result in significant cost to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of these claims. In addition, if we become subject to these types of claims and are not successful in our defense, we may be forced to pay substantial damages. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against these claims. The filing of these claims may also damage our reputation as a high quality provider of unbiased, timely analysis and result in client cancellations or overall decreased demand for our services. We may be liable if third parties or our employees misappropriate our users’ confidential business information. We currently retain confidential information relating to our users in secure database servers. Although we observe security measures throughout our operations, we cannot assure you that we will be able to prevent individuals from gaining unauthorized access to these database servers. Any unauthorized access to our servers, or abuse by our employees, could result in the theft of confidential user information. If confidential information is compromised, we could lose customers or become subject to liability or litigation and our reputation could be harmed, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Our business, which is dependent on centrally located communications and computer hardware systems, is vulnerable to natural disasters, telecommunication and systems failures, terrorism and other problems, which could reduce traffic on our networks or websites and result in decreased capacity for advertising space. Our operations are dependent on our communications systems and computer hardware, all of which are located in data centers operated by third parties. These systems could be damaged by fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunication failures and other similar events and natural disasters. Our insurance policies have limited coverage levels for loss or damages in these events and may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur. In addition, terrorist acts or acts of war may cause harm to our employees or damage our facilities, our clients, our clients’ customers and vendors, or cause us to postpone or cancel, or result in dramatically reduced attendance at, our events, which could adversely impact our revenues, costs and expenses and financial position. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions to our systems or cancellations of events caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. Our systems may be subject to slower response times and system disruptions that could adversely affect our revenues. Our ability to attract and maintain relationships with users, advertisers and strategic partners will depend on the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our Internet infrastructure. Our Internet advertising revenues relate directly to the number of advertisements and other marketing opportunities delivered to our users. System interruptions or delays that result in the unavailability of Internet sites or slower response times for users would reduce the number of advertising impressions and leads delivered. This could reduce our revenues as the attractiveness of our sites to users and advertisers decreases. Our insurance policies provide only limited coverage for service interruptions and may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. Further, we do not have multiple site capacity for all of our services in the event of any such occurrence. We may experience service disruptions for the following reasons: • occasional scheduled maintenance; • equipment failure; • traffic volume to our websites that exceed our infrastructure’s capacity; and • natural disasters, telecommunications failures, power failures, other system failures, maintenance, viruses, hacking or other events outside of our control. Our networks and websites must accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver frequently updated information. They have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, slower response times or decreased traffic for a variety of reasons. There have been instances where our online networks as a whole, or our websites individually, have been inaccessible. Also, slower response times, which have occurred more frequently, can result from general Internet problems, routing and equipment problems involving third party Internet access providers, problems with third party advertising servers, increased traffic to our servers, viruses and other security breaches, many of which problems are out of our control. In addition, our users depend on Internet service providers and online service providers for access to our online networks or websites. Those providers have experienced outages and delays in the past, and may experience outages or delays in the future. Moreover, our Internet infrastructure might not be able to support continued growth of our online networks or websites. Any of these problems could result in less traffic to our networks or websites or harm the perception of our networks or websites as reliable sources of information. Less traffic on our networks and websites or periodic interruptions in service could have the effect of reducing demand for advertising on our networks or websites, thereby reducing our advertising revenues. 30 Table of Contents Our networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized persons accessing our systems, viruses and other disruptions, which could result in the theft of our proprietary information and/or disrupt our Internet operations making our websites less attractive and reliable for our users and advertisers. Internet usage could decline if any well-publicized compromise of security occurs. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our service. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect our websites against hackers. Our online networks could also be affected by computer viruses or other similar disruptive problems, and we could inadvertently transmit viruses across our networks to our users or other third parties. Any of these occurrences could harm our business or give rise to a cause of action against us. Providing unimpeded access to our online networks is critical to servicing our customers and providing superior customer service. Our inability to provide continuous access to our online networks could cause some of our customers to discontinue purchasing advertising programs and services and/or prevent or deter our users from accessing our networks. Our activities and the activities of third party contractors involve the storage and transmission of proprietary and personal information. Accordingly, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We cannot assure that contractual provisions attempting to limit our liability in these areas will be successful or enforceable, or that other parties will accept such contractual provisions as part of our agreements. We have identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting, which has not been fully remediated. In addition, we may experience additional material weaknesses in the future. Any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting or our failure to remediate such material weaknesses could result in a material misstatement in our financial statements not being prevented or detected and could adversely affect investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, as well as our stock price. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Our current accounting and financial reporting system and related internal controls are inadequate to carry out the volume and level of complexities associated with our online service revenue transactions. There exists a reasonable possibility that a material error related to revenue and revenue-related accounts would not be detected on a timely basis. This material weakness and our remediation plans are described further in Item 9A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements not being prevented or detected. Although we have implemented a Sarbanes-Oxley Remediation Plan, we may experience difficulties or delays in achieving goals under this plan and completing remediation, or may not be able to successfully remediate material weaknesses at all. Any material weakness or unsuccessful remediation could harm investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and have an adverse effect on our stock price and our ability to raise additional funds. 31 Table of Contents Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. In the future, we may need to raise additional funds to expand our sales and marketing and service development efforts or to make acquisitions. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund the expansion of our sales and marketing and research and development efforts or take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities, which could seriously harm our business and operating results. If we incur debt, the debt holders would have rights senior to common stockholders to make claims on our assets and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, our stockholders bear the risk of our future securities offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their interest. The impairment of a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet could result in a decrease in earnings and, as a result, our stock price could decline. In the course of our operating history, we have acquired assets and businesses. Some of our acquisitions have resulted in the recording of a significant amount of goodwill and/or intangible assets on our financial statements. We had approximately $102.9 million of goodwill and net intangible assets as of December 31, 2010. The goodwill and/or intangible assets were recorded because the fair value of the net tangible assets acquired was less than the purchase price. We may not realize the full value of the goodwill and/or intangible assets. As such, we evaluate goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances suggest that the asset may be impaired. We evaluate other intangible assets subject to amortization whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. If goodwill or other intangible assets are determined to be impaired, we will write off the unrecoverable portion as a charge to our earnings. If we acquire new assets and businesses in the future, as we intend to do, we may record additional goodwill and/or intangible assets. The possible write-off of the goodwill and/or intangible assets could negatively impact our future earnings and, as a result, the market price of our common stock could decline. The trading value of our common stock may be volatile and decline substantially. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this prospectus, these factors include: • our operating performance and the operating performance of similar companies; • the overall performance of the equity markets; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, business plans or commercial relationships; • threatened or actual litigation; • changes in laws or regulations relating to the provision of Internet content; • any major change in our board of directors or management; 32 Table of Contents • publication of research reports about us, our competitors or our industry, or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; • our sale of common stock or other securities in the future; • large volumes of sales of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders; and • general political and economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and historically the market for Internet-related companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law could deter takeover attempts. Various provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or change of control. Our stockholders might view any transaction of this type as being in their best interest since the transaction could result in a higher stock price than the then-current market price for our common stock. Among other things, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: • authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock with the terms of each series to be fixed by our board of directors, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the share ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board; • divide our board of directors into three classes so that only approximately one-third of the total number of directors is elected each year; • permit directors to be removed only for cause; • prohibit action by less than unanimous written consent of our stockholders; and • specify advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations. In addition, with some exceptions, the Delaware General Corporation Law restricts or delays mergers and other business combinations between us and any stockholder that acquires 15% or more of our voting stock. Future sales of shares of our common stock by existing stockholders could depress the market price of our common stock. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. A large portion of our outstanding shares of common stock are held by our officers, directors and affiliates. Two of the largest percentages of our shares are owned by venture capital funds, which are typically structured to have a finite life. As these venture capital funds approach or pass the respective terms of the fund, the decision to sell or hold our stock may be based not only on the underlying investment merits of our stock, but also on the requirements of their internal fund structure. Our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders beneficially own approximately 23.8 million shares of our common stock, which represents 64% of our shares outstanding as of December 31, 2010. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline substantially. 33 Table of Contents A limited number of stockholders will have the ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. Our directors, executive officers and significant stockholders beneficially own approximately 64% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they act together, could exert substantial influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, the amendment of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. This concentration of ownership may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their stock as part of a sale of our company and might reduce our stock price. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by other stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 