D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We face significant competition in our markets, which could result in decreases in current and potential customers, revenues and profitability We face significant competition in our markets. In particular, we expect competition among providers of mobile telecommunications services, including new entrants, to continue to drive prices for services and handsets (which we subsidize in some markets) lower. In addition, number portability requirements, which enable customers to switch their providers of mobile telecommunications services without changing their mobile phone numbers, have been introduced in some of the markets in which we operate and will likely be introduced in other markets in the future. These developments could lead to greater movement of customers among providers of mobile telecommunications services, known as churn, which could increase our marketing, distribution and administrative costs, slow growth in the number of our customers and reduce our revenues. Our market position will also depend on effective marketing initiatives and our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services, pricing strategies by competitors and changes in consumer preferences and economic, political and social conditions in the countries in which we operate. Any failure by us to compete effectively, including in terms of pricing of services, anticipating and developing new technologies and services, acquisition of new customers and retention of existing customers, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. We may not realize the benefits we expect from our capital expenditures, which may adversely impact our business We have made significant capital expenditures on our network infrastructure and information technology systems to provide the services we offer. Our capital expenditures were HK$5,518 million in 2003, HK$4,658 million in 2004 and HK$4,718 million (US$609 million) in 2005, a significant majority of which were comprised of expenditures on telecommunications and network equipment and construction in progress (calculated at cost). In order to continue to develop our business and offer new services, we intend to continue to invest in networks in new service areas as well as new technologies, which we expect will result in substantial capital expenditures. Our capital expenditure is expected to increase significantly in 2006, to an anticipated level of HK$13,500 million (US$1,741 million) to HK$14,500 million (US$1,870 million). We may not be successful in marketing these new services to consumers, thus impairing the return from our expenditures. We cannot assure you that services enabled by new technologies we implement will generate an acceptable rate of return. In addition, we face the risk of unforeseen complications in the deployment of new service areas and new technologies, and we cannot assure you that our estimate of the necessary capital expenditure will not be exceeded. If we do not realize the anticipated benefits of our capital expenditures, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We have a history of losses and negative cash flows which may continue and adversely affect our ability to meet our business and growth objectives We have incurred significant losses and recorded negative cash flows in recent years. We had loss attributable to equity holders of HK$768 million (US$99 million) in 2005 and HK$30 million in 2004. The loss in 2004 included a one-time profit of HK$1,300 million from the placement of shares in Hutchison Global Communications Holdings Limited, as further described in “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Results of Operations—Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004—Group results.” Without this one-time profit, our loss attributable to equity holders in 2004 would have been HK$1,330 million. Our cash flows from operating and investing activities were negative HK$2,176 million and HK$4,485 million (US$579 million) in 2004 and 2005 respectively. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated loss of HK$7,114 million (US$918 million). It is likely that we will continue to record losses in some future periods, and we cannot assure you that our losses will not increase in the future or, in the event that we do have profits, that we will be able to sustain our operating profits. We refer you to “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects” for more information regarding our financial condition and results of operations. We have a high level of debt We now have, and for the foreseeable future will continue to have, a significant amount of debt. On a consolidated basis, we had a total of HK$26,692 million (US$3,444 million) in bank loans, borrowings and debentures as of December 31, 2005, of which HK$7,690 million (US$992 million) was short-term debt. Of this debt, HK$7,488 million (US$966 million) was guaranteed by Hutchison Whampoa Limited, or Hutchison Whampoa, and its affiliates, whom we have in turn fully counter-indemnified, and HK$18,276 million (US$2,358 million) was secured by pledges of our assets. All of the debt that was guaranteed by members of the Hutchison Whampoa group was incurred prior to 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we also had total commitments of HK$19,049 million (US$2,458 million). We are required under the relevant agreements relating to our interests in our Thai and Vietnamese operations to provide funding for operating expenses and capital expenditures of the operating companies or the intermediary holding companies through which we hold our interest in these operating companies. Our high level of debt, our significant levels of assets pledged as security and our commitments could: • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to debt payments or other payment obligations, thereby decreasing the availability of our cash flow for business operations; • limit our flexibility and planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the telecommunications industry; • result in loss of assets pledged as security in the event we are unable to meet payment obligations; and • prevent us from accessing credit or equity markets to satisfy our repayment obligations as they become due on favorable terms, or at all. Our current liabilities have historically exceeded, and continue to exceed, our current assets, which may constrain our operational flexibility Our current liabilities have generally exceeded our current assets in recent years. We had net current liabilities of HK$6,323 million, HK$14,373 million and HK$5,328 million (US$687 million) as of December 31, 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively. Our high level of net current liabilities could constrain our operational flexibility as well as adversely affect our ability to expand our business. We require substantial amounts of capital for our business operations, and the failure to obtain needed capital may materially and adversely affect our growth prospects and future profitability We require substantial capital to build, maintain and operate our telecommunications networks. We may also potentially require significant amounts of capital to acquire and invest in other telecommunications companies and spectrum rights. To the extent these expenditures exceed our cash resources, we will be required to seek additional debt or equity financing. Our ability to obtain additional financing on favorable commercial terms will depend on a number of factors, including: • our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows; • general market conditions for financing activities by mobile and fixed-line telecommunications companies; and • economic, political and other conditions in the markets where we operate. 6 Table of Contents In the past, we have relied on loans from third parties that were guaranteed by the Hutchison Whampoa group, as well as loans from members of the Hutchison Whampoa group, to help meet our working capital and other capital requirements. Following the completion of the restructuring of Hutchison Whampoa’s telecommunications business in September 2004, the Hutchison Whampoa group has no obligation to guarantee new loans or provide funding to us. While we believe that we will be able to procure alternative funding sources for our capital expenditure requirements, we may incur higher funding costs if we no longer have the benefit of guarantees from the Hutchison Whampoa group, which may affect our financial condition and results of operations in future periods. Any new borrowings could include terms that restrict our financial flexibility, including the debt we may incur in the future, or may restrict our ability to manage our business as we had intended. If we are unable to renew existing funding or obtain additional funding in a timely manner or on acceptable terms, our growth prospects, competitive position and future profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Our major shareholders may take actions that are not in, or may conflict with, our other shareholders’ best interests One of our major shareholders is Hutchison Whampoa, which holds approximately 49.8% of our shares. In addition, Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited, or Cheung Kong Holdings, which holds 49.97% of Hutchison Whampoa, directly holds 1.1% of our shares through its wholly owned subsidiaries. Although Cheung Kong Holdings has, pursuant to Rule 13d-4 under the Exchange Act, expressly disclaimed beneficial ownership of those of our shares held by Hutchison Whampoa, the combined shareholding of Hutchison Whampoa and Cheung Kong Holdings exceeds 50%. Our other major shareholder is Orascom Telecom Holding S.A.E., or Orascom Holding, which holds approximately 19.31% of our shares. Individually, Hutchison Whampoa and Orascom Holding are each able to influence our business through their ability to significantly affect the outcome of matters put before shareholders for approval and through their respective representatives on our board of directors. Together, their combined shareholding exceeds 69%, which gives them the ability to control actions that require majority shareholders’ approval. Neither shareholder is obligated to exercise its rights as a shareholder in our best interests or the best interests of our other shareholders. Both major shareholders may engage in activities that conflict with such interests. We have entered into a non-competition agreement with Hutchison Whampoa that restricts Hutchison Whampoa from competing with us in certain markets. This agreement will terminate if Hutchison Whampoa’s control of our shares falls below certain specified thresholds. See “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Related party transactions with Hutchison Whampoa—Non-competition agreement” for a discussion of the terms of the non-competition agreement. Orascom Holding is engaged in the telecommunications business in numerous countries and may compete directly or indirectly with us in the future. Orascom Holding has not entered into any non-competition agreement with us. If the interests of either major shareholder conflicts with the interests of our other shareholders, or if either major shareholder chooses to cause our business to pursue strategic objectives that conflict with the interests of our other shareholders, those shareholders could be disadvantaged by the actions that Hutchison Whampoa, Orascom Holding, or the two major shareholders together, chooses to pursue. We cannot assure you that any conflict of interests and overlap of business activities and operations between Hutchison Whampoa or Orascom Holding, on the one hand, and us on the other hand, will not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Furthermore, certain adverse events may occur if Hutchison Whampoa’s equity interest in our company falls below specified thresholds. For example, under a HK$6 billion three-year senior secured revolving credit facility that we entered into in May 2005 and a HK$9 billion three-year senior secured revolving credit facility that we entered into in November 2005, it is a mandatory prepayment event if Hutchison Whampoa ceases to own, directly or indirectly through its subsidiaries, at least 40% of our issued voting share capital. In addition, Hutchison Whampoa has the right to terminate brand license agreements if its indirect interest in the licensee operating companies falls below specified thresholds, as described further in “—We do not own all of the intellectual property rights necessary to operate our business, and if any of these intellectual property rights become unavailable to us, we could face disruptions in our operations”. We cannot assure you that Hutchison Whampoa would not exercise these rights and that such an exercise will not materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, we currently benefit from our ongoing relationship with Hutchison Whampoa and its other subsidiaries and affiliates through their global reach and relationships. We cannot assure you that Hutchison Whampoa will continue to allow us to have access to such benefits in the future. We do not own all of the intellectual property rights necessary to operate our business, and if any of these intellectual property rights become unavailable to us, we could face disruptions in our operations We do not own all of the intellectual property rights in the brand names that we use to market our services. We have arrangements with the Hutchison Whampoa group pursuant to which we have rights to use “3”, “Hutch” and “Hutchison Telecom” and other trademarks that include the word “Hutchison” or derivations thereof royalty-free until the relevant change of control provisions as agreed between the relevant members of our group and the Hutchison Whampoa group are triggered. We use the Hutch brand in most of our markets and 3 in Hong Kong and Macau. We also have been granted licenses to use certain trademarks from non-Hutchison Whampoa entities, notably the “Orange” brand, which we license from a subsidiary of Orange SA. We use the Orange brand for our mobile telecommunications operations in Israel. If the change control provisions are triggered under our arrangements with the Hutchison Whampoa group, or if we breach the terms of our licenses with non-Hutchison Whampoa entities, we may have to renegotiate the terms of these trademark arrangements and/or pay royalties for the use of the relevant trademarks and domain names, or could lose the use of such trademarks and domain names altogether. Under the license agreements between Hutchison 3G Enterprises S.à r.l., or Hutchison 3G Enterprises, and our Hutch India operating companies, if the aggregate direct and indirect shareholding of Hutchison Whampoa or any one or more subsidiaries of Hutchison Whampoa in a licensee falls below threshold levels of 45%, 40%, 30% and 20%, then upon falling below each such threshold, Hutchison 3G Enterprises is entitled, for a period of 12 months, to terminate the brand license. Following the sale on December 21, 2005 of approximately 19.3% of our shares by the Hutchison Whampoa group to Orascom Holding, Hutchison Whampoa’s aggregate direct and indirect shareholding in Hutch India’s operating companies fell below 40%, thus entitling Hutchison 3G Enterprises to terminate the license agreements with the Hutch India operating companies at any time prior to December 21, 2006. As of the date of this annual report, we have not received any notice of termination from Hutchison 3G Enterprises, although we cannot assure you that Hutchison 3G Enterprises will not issue such a notice. We cannot assure you that the fees and terms of use will be commercially acceptable to us if we have to renegotiate these arrangements. If any of the brands under which we operate become unavailable to us, we could face disruptions in our operations and, as a consequence, our financial condition and the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected due to the importance of the trademarks and domain names to the branding of our business operations. We rely on the ability of our operating companies to generate earnings, and any decline in the earnings of our operating companies or restrictions on our ability to transfer or convert currencies from the countries in which our operating companies are located could materially and adversely affect our earnings and operational flexibility We currently conduct all our operations directly or indirectly through our operating companies. Most of our assets are held by, and substantially all of our earnings and cash flows are attributable to, our operating companies. If earnings from our operating companies were to decline, our earnings and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. Two sources of cash flows are dividends paid to us by our operating companies and shareholder loans repaid to us by our operating companies. We cannot assure you that our operating companies will generate sufficient earnings and cash flows to pay dividends, repay loans or otherwise distribute sufficient funds to enable us to meet our obligations, pay interest and expenses or declare dividends. In addition, disruption of the international foreign exchange markets may limit our ability to transfer or to convert currencies from the countries in which our operating companies are located into Hong Kong dollars and other currencies. Furthermore, the governments of certain countries in which we operate, such as India, have instituted, and other countries may in the future institute, restrictive exchange rate policies that limit or restrict our ability to convert their respective currencies into other currencies or to transfer other currencies out of their jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that currency fluctuations or limitations on our ability to convert or transfer currencies would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. 7 Table of Contents As a result of statutory or regulatory restrictions on foreign ownership, we do not own the majority of the voting stock in all of our operating companies and, as a result, we do not have complete control of these companies, which may limit our ability to cause these operating companies to take actions we believe would be beneficial to our shareholders Governmental policy and/or regulations in some countries in which we currently operate or may operate in the future limit the nature and extent of our investments in those countries. For example, we may not own 50% or more of the equity of any company engaged in the provision of services, including telecommunications services, in Thailand. In Vietnam, foreign ownership of an entity that operates a telecommunications network is prohibited, as a result of which we conduct our operations there through a business cooperation contract with a Vietnamese partner that owns the network. Management control of the network remains with the Vietnamese partner. Furthermore, there are limits in India on the level of foreign ownership and restrictions in relation to the management of telecommunications service providers, and until recently we were prohibited from owning more than 49% of the voting equity of any telecommunications operator in India. As a result, our ownership interests in our operating companies in these countries do not in every instance provide us with the ability to control all actions that require shareholder approval and our ability to manage such operating companies may be hindered. Although we may participate in the management of such operating companies, we may not have the ability to prevent them from engaging in activities or pursuing strategic objectives that may conflict with our interests or overall strategic objectives. See “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Operating companies review—India—Ownership” and “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Operating companies review—Thailand—Ownership.” We may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses as a result of our implementation of procedures designed to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 relating to evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting Commencing with our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ending December 31, 2006, we will include a report from our management relating to its evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as required under Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a consequence of systems and procedures currently being reviewed and implemented to comply with these requirements, we may uncover circumstances that may be determined to be significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, or that may otherwise result in disclosable conditions. In the event that we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control structure, measures to remediate may involve significant effort and expense, and any disclosure of such significant deficiencies, material weakness or other disclosable conditions may result in a negative market reaction. We rely upon an exemption to avoid being regulated as an investment company under the U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940 and may be required to take actions that are inconsistent with our business interests or objectives if we are no longer able to rely on that exemption The U.S. Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act, provides that a company is an investment company if more than 40% of the value of the company’s total assets is represented by investment securities, which, under the applicable definition, includes minority equity investments. The 1940 Act contains substantive regulations with respect to investment companies, including restrictions on their capital structure, operations and transactions with affiliates, that would be incompatible with our operations. We believe that we are not an investment company as of the date of this annual report. Some of our minority equity investments in other companies may be deemed investment securities for purposes of the 1940 Act. However, even if those investments were to be so characterized, we believe that we are currently eligible for certain exemptions from regulation under the 1940 Act. If we were to no longer be eligible for these exemptions, we could become an investment company. If we were to become an investment company and we were to be unable to obtain exemptive relief, we would have to rely on a one-year safe harbor exemption from the 1940 Act for “transient” investment companies. During this one-year period, we would have to reduce our holdings of minority equity investments and other investment securities, increase our holdings of asset that are not investment securities or do both such things. These actions could affect our ability to implement our business strategy or cause us to suffer losses. In addition, if we were deemed to be an investment company in the future, we would, among other things, effectively be precluded from making public offerings in the United States. This could impede our ability to raise additional capital or to implement our business plan. We could also be subject to administrative or legal proceedings. Risks Relating to Markets Where We Operate The application of several aspects of regulations and policies on foreign ownership in India and other countries may be unclear, and changes in the regulations or policies, or their application or interpretation, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations The application of several aspects of regulations and policies on foreign ownership in India and other countries may be unclear. In addition, the regulators in the countries, such as India and Thailand, in which we are subject to foreign ownership restrictions, may re-evaluate foreign ownership restrictions and other regulations applicable to the telecommunications and other sectors. For example, the former prohibition on owning more than 49% of the voting equity of any telecommunications operator in India was amended pursuant to a Press Note issued by the Ministry of Commerce & Industry, Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion, Secretariat of Industrial Assistance, or the Ministry of Commerce, on November 2, 2005, or the Press Note, to increase the aggregate permitted direct and indirect foreign investment in an Indian operating company in the telecommunications sector to 74%. However, the Press Note also introduced new requirements regarding the manner in which foreign ownership is calculated. Previously, the foreign investment rules required only that the direct holding by a foreign investor could not exceed 49%, whereas under the Press Note, all attributable direct and indirect holdings are counted. These new regulations required us, as well as some of the other shareholders of our Indian operations, to reorganize our respective ownership structures to reduce the amount of indirect foreign ownership, which previously had not been counted. In addition, the Press Note introduced new requirements as to management and other operational aspects of Indian telecommunications companies. For a further description of the policy announcement, see “Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation—India.” Clarifications of, or changes in, the application or interpretation of this new policy or other existing or proposed regulations or policies in India or elsewhere, or in the regulations or policies themselves, could require us to remove or amend our existing arrangements and reduce our voting and/or economic interests in the relevant companies. Any such removal, amendment or reduction could affect our ability to implement our business strategy in the affected countries. Further, we do not have complete control over whether those of our operating companies that are subject to foreign ownership restrictions are compliant with such restrictions. Compliance may be affected by whether other shareholders in such operating companies are domestic or foreign as determined in accordance with the applicable rules, regulations or license conditions. If foreign ownership restrictions are determined to have been violated, it is possible that monetary and criminal penalties could be imposed, and relevant licenses or agreements could be cancelled. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. Depreciation or fluctuation of the currencies in which we conduct operations relative to the Hong Kong dollar could adversely affect our financial condition and the results of our operations If the currencies of various countries in which we conduct our operations fluctuate relative to the Hong Kong dollar, which we use as our reporting currency in our consolidated accounts, these fluctuations may result in exchange losses or gains and increases or reductions in our debt after translation into Hong Kong dollars. In 2005, we recorded a net exchange loss of HK$18 million (US$2.3 million) compared to a net exchange gain of HK$79 million in 2004 and HK$42 million in 2003. Volatility in social, political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate may adversely affect our business. Many of our operating companies and a substantial portion of our total assets are located in countries, including India, Israel, Indonesia, Thailand and Sri Lanka, that have experienced social, political and economic volatility. Developments in these countries and other countries in which we operate in the future, including uncertainties arising from economic liberalization and deregulation policies, future economic crises, outbreaks of hostility and political instability, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, hostilities involving Israel could cause Partner’s revenues to fall and harm its business. 8 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the Telecommunications Industry Generally The telecommunications industry is a highly regulated industry in which regulators’ decisions may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Our business is highly regulated. In each of the countries in which we operate, we are subject to government regulation regarding licenses, competition, frequency allocation and costs and arrangements pertaining to interconnection and leased lines. Our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by changes in laws, regulations or government policy affecting our business activities. For example, we are subject to regulations on our tariff structures in some jurisdictions where we operate. We cannot predict with accuracy or assure you on the timing, likelihood or likely magnitude of any future tariff adjustments generally or the extent of any potential impact such tariff adjustments would have on our business. We cannot assure you that our business, financial condition and the results of our operations will not be materially and adversely affected by any government-mandated tariff adjustments in the future. Our business could also be materially and adversely affected by adverse decisions of regulators. For instance, we hold a telecommunications license for the license area of Mumbai, India, and in December 2005 entered into an agreement to acquire BPL Mobile Communications Limited, or BPL Mumbai, which is also a licensee for global systems for mobile, or GSM, mobile services in the telecommunications license area of Mumbai. This acquisition is subject to the prior approval of the Department of Telecommunications of India because it falls under intra-circle merger guidelines. These guidelines were issued in 2004 and cover the acquisition and merger of companies holding cellular telecommunications licences in the same license area. Although we believe the BPL Mumbai acquisition complies with the guidelines, this is the first application pursuant to these guidelines considered by the Department of Telecommunications, and as such, the approval of the application might be delayed or not receive approval. We cannot guarantee that the application will be approved, and any approval granted may be subject to conditions that are unacceptable to us. In some cases, regulators may also be competitors. While regulators may have been granted powers to ensure a level playing field among the various mobile telecommunications operators, we cannot assure you that the relevant government will ensure a level playing field between government companies and private operators. Required licenses and permits may be difficult to obtain in those countries where we operate a network, and once obtained may be amended or revoked or may not be renewed Our operation of telecommunications networks and the provision of related services are regulated to varying degrees by national, state, regional or local governmental and/or regulatory authorities. Our operating licenses specify the services we can offer and the frequency spectrum we can utilize for mobile operations. These licenses are subject to review, interpretation, modification or termination by the relevant authorities. We cannot assure you that the relevant authorities will not take any action that could materially and adversely affect us. Our operating licenses are generally renewable upon expiration. However, we cannot assure you that they will be renewed or that any renewal on new terms will be commercially acceptable to us. If we fail to renew any of our licenses, we may lose the ability to continue to operate the affected business, and the realizable value of our relevant network infrastructure and related assets may be materially and adversely affected. The rules of some government regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over our operations require us to meet specified network build-out requirements and schedules. In addition, our licenses typically require satisfaction of various obligations, including minimum specified quality, service, coverage criteria and capital investment. Failure to comply with these obligations could result in the imposition of fines or the revocation or forfeiture of the license for that area. Furthermore, the need to meet scheduled deadlines may cause us to expend more resources than otherwise budgeted for a particular network build-out. We cannot assure you that we will be able to fully comply with the terms and conditions of these licenses and permits. In particular, some of our operations have been fined for failure to comply with certain of these terms and conditions within the specified time frame. The deployment of our networks requires various approvals or permits from national, state, regional or local governmental and/or regulatory authorities, particularly in relation to establishing cell sites. These approvals and permits may include building, construction and environmental permits, antenna and mast deployment approvals and other various planning permissions. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, difficulties in obtaining some of these approvals and permits which may require us to seek alternative cell sites and/or incur effort and expense where a suitable alternative cell site is not available, for example, possibly through applying for and making payments in respect of re-zoning applications. We are dependent on interconnection with our competitors’ networks and associated infrastructure as well as roaming arrangements with other telecommunications operators Our ability to provide commercially viable mobile and fixed-line telecommunications services depends, in part, upon our interconnection arrangements with other telecommunications operators. In particular, we are dependent on interconnection with our competitors’ mobile and fixed-line networks and associated infrastructure for the successful operation of our business. The framework by which interconnection charges are made in certain jurisdictions where we engage in business are currently being reviewed by the relevant government authorities. Any change to the framework or the basis upon which interconnection charges are made is likely to require the renegotiation of our interconnection agreements. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our interconnection agreements on terms that are commercially acceptable to us or that any material increase in the interconnection expenses would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the results of our operations. Our operating companies are also dependent upon roaming agreements with other telecommunications operators as a source of revenues when the other telecommunications operators’ customers roam on our networks. If these roaming agreements were to terminate, or if the other telecommunications operators were to deploy incompatible technologies, our roaming revenues and profits may be materially reduced. Our allocated spectrum may be insufficient for the expansion of our mobile telecommunications business The operation of our mobile telecommunications networks is limited by the amount of spectrum allocated to us in the countries where we operate. Allocation of spectrum is determined by the relevant governmental authorities in those countries. In determining spectrum allocation, governmental authorities generally seek to ensure choice of services, efficient use of spectrum and continuity of customer service while maintaining technology neutrality and providing a stable investment environment. Although we believe that our current spectrum allocation is sufficient for expected customer growth going forward, our future profitability may be materially and adversely affected if our allocated spectrum proves inadequate in the future for the expansion of our mobile telecommunications business. Concerns about health risks relating to the use of mobile handsets may adversely affect our prospects Media and other reports have linked radio frequency emissions from mobile handsets to various health concerns, including cancer, and to interference with various electronic medical devices, including hearing aids and pacemakers. Although we do not know of any definitive studies showing that radio frequency emissions cause health problems, concerns over radio frequency emissions may discourage the use of mobile handsets in the countries in which we conduct business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, lawsuits have been filed in the United States against certain participants in the telecommunications industry alleging various adverse health consequences as a result of mobile handset usage, and we may be subject to similar litigation in the future. Research and studies are ongoing, and we cannot assure you that further research and studies will not demonstrate a link between radio frequency emissions and health concerns. 9 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our ADSs and Ordinary Shares Our board of directors may suspend voting rights attaching to some shares as necessary to avoid any of our subsidiaries or affiliates being in breach or default Our articles of association provide that if any person directly or indirectly has or acquires an interest in a number of our shares that would or may, in the opinion of our directors, require a review or approval under, or which would or may result in any of our subsidiaries or affiliates (being any entity in which we directly or indirectly hold 5% or more of the issued share capital) being in breach or in default of, any applicable law, regulation or license, permit, consent or privilege held or enjoyed by any such subsidiary or affiliate, or any requirement of any governmental or regulatory authority, our directors have the discretion to suspend the shareholder’s right to exercise the voting rights attaching to the affected shares in which the shareholder has an interest in respect of any resolution at any general meeting of our company. Our directors also have the ability to restrict the director(s) appointed by or at the direction of that shareholder, if any, to our board of directors from voting on any resolution or matter that concerns the activities of any affected entity or appointment of a director or the managing director of any affected entity. See “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association—Rights, Preferences, Restrictions Attaching to Shares and Changing the Rights of Shareholders—Voting Rights.” It may be more difficult for you to bring an action against us or against our directors and officers, or to enforce a judgment against us or them, than if we were a corporation incorporated in the United States We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands, and we conduct substantially all of our operations outside of the United States. In addition, substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States. Moreover, most of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors and actions by minority shareholders are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law in the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority in a court in the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands law in this area may not be as established and may differ from provisions under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may face different considerations in protecting their interests in actions against the management, directors or our major shareholder than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring or enforce an action against us or against these individuals in the United States if you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise. In particular, the Cayman Islands courts are unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, to impose liabilities against us based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. Our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court may be limited. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs As a holder of our ADSs, you may instruct the depositary of your ADSs to vote the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs but only if we ask the depositary to ask for your instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw our ordinary shares underlying the ADSs you hold. However, you may not know about the meeting far enough in advance to withdraw those ordinary shares. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote, and there may be nothing you can do if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. Under the deposit agreement for the ADSs, the depositary will give us a discretionary proxy to vote our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs at shareholders’ meetings if you do not vote, unless we notify the depositary that: • we do not wish to receive a discretionary proxy; • we think there is substantial shareholder opposition to the particular question; or • we think the particular question would have a material adverse impact on our shareholders. The effect of this discretionary proxy is that you cannot prevent our ordinary shares underlying your ADSs from being voted, absent the situations described above, and it may make it more difficult for shareholders to influence the management of our company, which could adversely affect your interests. Holders of our ordinary shares are not subject to this discretionary proxy. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares represented by ADSs or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to holders of ADSs The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs Your ADSs, represented by ADRs, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of your ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. 10 Table of Contents 