ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting our financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K before making an investment decision with respect to our common stock. The following risks and uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we are not presently aware of or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business We are highly dependent upon consumers’ perception of the safety and quality of our products. Any ill effects, product liability claims, recalls, adverse publicity or negative public perception regarding particular ingredients or products or our industry in general could harm our reputation, damage our brand and adversely affect our results of operations. We sell products for human consumption, which involves risks such as product contamination, spoilage and tampering. We may be subject to liability if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. Adverse publicity or negative public perception regarding particular ingredients, our products, our actions relating to our products, or our industry in general could result in a substantial drop in demand for our products. This negative public perception may include publicity regarding the safety or quality of particular ingredients or products in general, of other companies or of our products or ingredients specifically. Negative public perception may also arise from regulatory investigations or product liability claims, regardless of whether those investigations involve us or whether any product liability claim is successful against us. On September 16, 2008, China’s Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine, or China AQSIQ, announced its finding that the formula products of 22 Chinese formula producers, including certain lots of our U-Smart products, were contaminated by melamine, a substance not approved for use in food and linked to the illness and deaths of infants and children in China. There were six reported deaths and approximately 300,000 children suffered kidney-related illnesses due to the contaminated infant formula of one of our competitors. This contamination incident resulted in significant negative publicity for the entire domestic dairy and formula industries in China and demand for domestically-produced dairy and formula products, including our products, declined significantly since September 2008 until late 2009. We recalled our affected U-Smart products as well as all other products produced at the same facilities in the Hebei and Inner Mongolia regions of China, where we believe the contaminated milk supplies originated. We also suspended production at our facilities in Qingdao, Hebei and Inner Mongolia for two weeks pending government and internal investigations. The total cost of this action was $100.6 million which was recognized as a charge to cost of sales, selling and distribution expenses and general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statement of income mostly in fiscal year 2009. Although we have not confirmed any cases of kidney-related or other illnesses caused by our products, we cannot assure you that such cases will not surface in the future. The Chinese government has provided medical screening, treatment, and care for consumers affected by melamine contamination in infant formula products. We have contributed a net amount of $2.3 million to a compensation fund set up by China Dairy Industry Association to settle existing and potential claims arising in China from families of infants affected by melamine contamination. We cannot assure you that the Chinese government will not seek further reimbursement from dairy and formula product manufacturers, including us. We believe the melamine contamination incident negatively impacted our brand and reputation in China. It also affected investor confidence in us as reflected by the significant decrease in our stock price after September 16, 2008. We cannot predict whether there will be similar future incidents and what impact such incidents may have on our operations and reputation. 16 Table of Contents In August 2010, several media reports alleging our infant formula products caused symptoms of hormone-triggered sexual prematurity in infants in the Hubei province of China. Our business was significantly and negatively impacted since then as a result of these media reports, and our sales volume decreased significantly. We increased the spending on advertising after the prematurity event to repair our reputation and regain market share. As a result, we had a significant net loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. In addition, in January 2012, several Chinese media outlets reported that a pair of 4-month old twins in Jiangxi province became ill with severe intestinal symptoms. One passed away from hyperthermia and multi-functional organ failure on January 7, 2012. The other has recovered following hospitalization. Both infants were reported to have been consuming our powdered milk formula products for weeks before the sudden onset of their illnesses. In response to this event, the Jiangxi Province Center for Disease Control and Prevention and the Jiangxi Dairy Quality Supervision and Inspection Center conducted tests on samples of our products that were sold in the store where the infants’ family purchased the formula and concluded that there was no link between the infant milk powder products and the death of the baby or the illness of his twin sister. However, it is unclear what adverse impact this event has had on our reputation and results of operations. In the past, there have also been occurrences of counterfeiting and imitation of products in China that have been widely publicized. We cannot guarantee that contamination or counterfeiting or imitation of our or similar products will not occur in the future or that we will be able to detect it and deal with it effectively. Any occurrence of contamination or counterfeiting or imitation could negatively impact our corporate and brand image or consumers’ perception of our products or similar nutritional products generally, particularly if the counterfeit or imitation products cause injury or death to consumers. For example, in April 2004, sales of counterfeit and substandard infant formula in Anhui, China caused the deaths of 13 infants as well as harming many others. Although this incident did not involve the counterfeiting of our products, it caused significant negative publicity for the entire infant formula industry in China. The mere publication of information asserting that infant formula ingredients or products may be harmful could have a material adverse effect on us, regardless of whether these reports are scientifically supported or concern our products or the raw materials used in our products. We believe that the melamine contamination incident, the prematurity event and any other adverse news related to formula products in China will also result in increased regulatory scrutiny of our industry, which may result in increased costs and reduce our margins and profitability. The government has enhanced its regulations on the industry aimed to ensure the safety and quality of dairy products, including but not limited to compulsory batch by batch inspection. This is likely to increase our operating costs and capital expenditure. If we fail to obtain raw materials in the quantity and the quality we need, and at commercially acceptable prices, our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Our business requires certain key raw materials, such as milk powder and whey protein powder. We may experience a shortage in the supply of certain raw materials in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our production and results of operations. We do not have guaranteed supply contracts with any of our raw material suppliers, and some of our suppliers may, without notice or penalty, terminate their relationship with us at any time. We also rely on a small number of suppliers for some of our raw materials, such as whey protein powder and imported milk powder. We now use imported milk powder from New Zealand for all of our powered formula products as consumers have less confidence in domestically-produced milk powder. If any supplier is unwilling or unable to provide us with high quality raw materials in required quantities and at acceptable prices, we may be unable to find alternative sources or at commercially acceptable prices, on satisfactory terms, in a timely manner, or at all. Our inability to find or develop alternative sources could result in delays or reductions in production, product shipments or a reduction in our profit margins. Moreover, these suppliers may delay material shipments or supply us with inferior quality raw materials that may adversely impact the timely delivery or the quality of our products. If any of these events were to occur, our product quality, competitive position, reputation and business could suffer. In addition, most of the raw materials used in our business are imported, such as whey protein powder and milk powder. Our imported raw materials are subject to various PRC governmental permit requirements, approval procedures and import duties, and may also, from time to time, be subject to export controls and other legal restrictions imposed by foreign countries. Should the PRC government refuse to issue the necessary permits or approvals to us or our suppliers, or take any administrative actions to limit imports of certain raw materials, or if we or our suppliers fail to pay any required import duties, or if governmental agencies or laws of foreign countries prevent the timely export of certain raw materials we require to China, our ability to produce and sell our products in China could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, import duties increase the cost of our products and may make them less competitive. Finally, certain suppliers of raw materials within our supply chain may contaminate our raw material supplies or provide us with substandard raw material supplies that adversely impact the quality of our products exposing our customers to health risks and damaging our reputation, brand and financial condition. For a more detailed description of this risk, and in particular the impact of the melamine contamination incident in China, see Part 1 - Item 1A. Risk Factors — We are highly dependent upon consumers’ perception of the safety and quality of our products. Any ill effects, product liability claims, recalls, adverse publicity or negative public perception regarding particular ingredients or products or our industry in general could harm our reputation, damage our brand and adversely affect our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Any interruption in our supply of milk powder could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We currently import all of the milk powder used in the powdered formula production from New Zealand. The continuity of the milk powder supplies is of critical importance to our business. The importation of milk powder is influenced by numerous factors beyond our control, including, among other: (1) export control policy in the originating countries, (2) China’s government policy and regulation on milk powder importation as well as China’s custom inspection standards and (3) acts of God such as natural disasters. Any interruption in our milk powder supplies could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. In addition, we currently source all of our milk powder from one supplier, Fonterra. If Fonterra fails to deliver the milk powder we need on the terms we have agreed, we may not be able to find an alternative source at a comparable price or on other favorable terms, and any delays in securing an alternative source could result in production delays and late shipments of our products to distributors and end customers. Our results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in availability and price of raw materials. The raw materials we use are subject to price fluctuations due to various factors beyond our control, including increasing market demand, inflation, severe climatic and environmental conditions, commodity price fluctuations, currency fluctuations, changes in governmental and agricultural regulations and programs and other factors. We also expect that our raw material prices will continue to fluctuate and be affected by inflation in the future. Changes to our raw materials prices may result in increases in production and packaging costs, and we may be unable to raise the prices of our products to offset these increased costs in the short-term or at all. As a result, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents We might face inventory write-down if milk powder inventory increases and milk powder prices decline. We maintain inventories of raw materials and finished products, and our inventories may spoil. Most of our finished products have an average shelf life of 18 to 24 months before the product is opened. Our raw materials have an average shelf life of 12 months. Our inventory levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future sales. While we do not currently maintain large inventory levels for long periods, we may in future periods experience inventory buildup if our sales slow for any reason. Any significant shortfall in sales may result in higher inventory levels of raw materials and finished products than we require, thereby increasing our risk of inventory spoilage and corresponding inventory write-downs and write-offs, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Any major outbreak of illness or disease relating to cows in the regions in which we import milk powder could lead to significant shortfalls in the supply of our milk powder, and could result in consumers avoiding dairy products, which could result in substantial declines in our sales and possibly substantial losses. A major outbreak of any illness or disease in cows globally could lead to a serious loss of consumer confidence in, and demand for, dairy products. A major outbreak of mad cow disease (bovine spongiform encephalopathy), bovine tuberculosis, or bovine TB, or other serious disease in the principal regions supplying milk powder could lead to significant shortfalls in the supply of milk powder. Furthermore, adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying dairy products or cause production and delivery disruptions. If consumers generally were to avoid our products, our sales would decline substantially and we could suffer substantial losses. We may experience problems with product quality or product performance, or the perception of such problems, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation or result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Our operating results depend, in part, on our ability to deliver high quality products on a timely and cost-effective manner. Our quality control and food safety management systems are complex. For example, there are over 1,100 quality control points throughout the whole production process. If the quality of any of our products deteriorated, it could result in delays in shipments, cancellations of orders or customer returns and complaints, loss of goodwill, and harm to our brand and reputation. In addition, following the melamine contamination incident, we purchase all of the milk powder used for our powdered formula products from New Zealand. We may be unable to exercise the same degree of quality control over this overseas supplier as we can over our own facilities. Any quality problems associated with the milk powder produced by this supplier would also affect our products’ quality and lead to negative publicity against us, materially and adversely affecting our reputation and brand, and causing a decrease in sales of our products and a loss of market share. For example, the melamine contamination incident in China has resulted in certain of our products being contaminated, impacting our brand and reputation. 19 Table of Contents Product liability claims against us could result in adverse publicity and potentially significant monetary damages. As with other infant formula producers, we are also exposed to risks associated with product liability claims if the consumption of infant formula products we sell results in injury or death. We cannot predict what impact such product liability claims or resulting negative publicity would have on our business or on our brand image. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages, diversion of management resources and require us to make significant payments and incur substantial legal expenses. We do not have product liability insurance for powdered formula products sold in China and have not made provisions for potential product liability claims. Therefore, we may not have adequate resources to satisfy a judgment if a successful claim is brought against us. Even if a product liability claim is not successfully pursued to judgment by a claimant, we may still incur substantial legal expenses defending against such a claim and our brand image and reputation would suffer. Finally, serious product quality concerns could result in governmental actions against us, which, among other things, could result in the suspension of production or distribution of our products, loss of certain licenses, or other governmental penalties. For example, the melamine contamination incident in China in 2008 resulted in certain of our products being contaminated. As a result, lawsuits have been filed against us in both China and the U.S. by Chinese families alleged to have been affected by melamine contamination, seeking compensatory and punitive damages. See “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.” We may incur significant legal expenses and be subject to significant monetary damages in connection with such claims, which may adversely affect our results of operations and further harm our reputation and damage our brand. Further, we cannot assure you that we will not become subject to future product liability claims in connection with the melamine contamination incident. See Part 1 - Item 1A. Risk Factors — We are highly dependent upon consumers’ perception of the safety and quality of our products. Any ill effects, product liability claims, recalls, adverse publicity or negative public perception regarding particular ingredients or products or our industry in general could harm our reputation, damage our brand and adversely affect our results of operations.” Our sales, results of operations, brand image and reputation could be materially and adversely affected if we fail to efficiently manage our operations without interruption, or fail to ensure that our products are delivered on time. Our business requires successful coordination of several sequential and complex processes, the disruption of any of which could interrupt our operations and materially and adversely affect our relationships with our distributors, sub-distributors and end-customers, our brand name and reputation, and our financial performance. Our operations involve the coordination of raw material sourcing from third parties, internal production processes and external distribution processes. We may face difficulties in coordinating the various aspects of our production processes, resulting in downtime and delays. In addition, we may encounter interruptions in our production processes due to a catastrophic loss or events beyond our control, such as fires, explosions, labor disturbances, earthquakes or other natural disasters. If there is a stoppage in production at any of our facilities, even if only temporary, or delays in deliveries to our customers, our business and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. Along with many other producers of dairy and consumer products in China, we generally rely on third-party logistics companies and distributors for the delivery of our products. Delivery may be disrupted for various reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including natural disasters, weather conditions or social unrest and strikes, which could lead to delayed or lost deliveries. In addition, transportation and related infrastructure conditions are often generally under-developed in some of the regions where we sell our products. We currently do not have business interruption insurance to offset these potential losses, delays and risks, so a material interruption of our business operations could materially damage our business. 20 Table of Contents We rely primarily on third-party distributors and cannot assure you that their marketing and distribution of our products will be effective or will not harm our brand and reputation. Moreover, if we fail to timely identify and appoint additional or replacement distributors as needed, or are unable to successfully manage our distribution network, our operating results could suffer. We primarily rely on third-party distributors and sub-distributors for the distribution and sales of our products. We sell our products through an extensive nationwide distribution and sales network covering all of the provinces and provincial-level municipalities in mainland China. As of March 31, 2012, this network comprised over 650 independent distributors and over 800 independent sub-distributors who sell our products in over 67,000 retail outlets. Our distributors normally have exclusive distribution rights in their respective regions, and are also responsible for developing the sub-distributors located in their own regions. In addition, our distributors are not required to exclusively distribute our products. We typically do not enter into long-term agreements with distributors and have no control over their everyday business activities. Consequently, our distributors may engage in activities that are prohibited under our arrangements with them, that violate PRC laws and regulations governing the dairy industry or other PRC laws and regulations generally, or that are otherwise harmful to our business or our reputation. Due to our dependence on distributors for the sale and distribution of our products to retail outlets, any one of the following events could cause material fluctuations or declines in our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations: ● reduction, delay or cancellation of orders from one or more of our distributors; ● selection or increased sales by our distributors of our competitors’ products; and ● our failure to timely identify and appoint additional or replacement distributors upon the loss of one or more of our distributors. The competition for distributors is intense in our industry in China and many of our competitors are expanding their distribution networks in China. We may not be able to compete successfully against the larger and better-funded sales and marketing operations of some of our current or future competitors, especially if these competitors provide more favorable arrangements for distributors. As a result, we may lose some of our distributors to our competitors, which may cause us to lose some or all of our favorable arrangements with such distributors and may even result in the termination of our relationships with some of our distributors. While we do not believe we are substantially dependent upon any individual distributor, finding replacement distributors could be time-consuming and any resulting delay may be disruptive and costly to our business. In addition, we may not be able to successfully manage our distributors and the cost of any consolidation or further expansion of our distribution network may exceed the revenue generated from these efforts. The occurrence of any of these factors could result in a significant decrease in the sales volume of our products and therefore materially harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations and business prospects may be impaired by changing consumer preferences if we do not develop and offer products to meet changing preferences. Consumer preferences evolve over time and the success of our products depends on our ability to identify the tastes and nutritional needs of our customers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. We introduce new products and improved products from time to time and incur significant development and marketing costs. If our products fail to meet consumer preferences, then our strategy to grow sales and profits with new products will be less successful. More mothers may breastfeed their babies rather than use our products, resulting in reduced demand for our products and adversely affecting our revenues. Our results of operations are affected by the number of mothers who choose to use our products rather than breastfeeding their babies. Much publicly available data suggests that breastfeeding has many health benefits for the baby that cannot be replicated by dairy-based infant formula products. Additionally, popular literature, cultural pressure, government policies and medical advice in China generally promote the benefits of breastfeeding. For example, on August 1, 2007, China’s Ministry of Health issued an Infant Feeding Strategy which promoted breastfeeding and requested all local relevant departments to publicize the benefits of breastfeeding through radio broadcasting, television and newspapers during World Breastfeeding Week, which took place in early August 2007. In November 2011, the MOH of China submitted a proposal for public review that could ban promotions and advertising of infant formula for babies younger than six months. Thus, to the extent that private, public and government sources increasingly promote the benefits of breastfeeding, there could be a reduced demand for our products and our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, we believe the melamine contamination incident has deteriorated customer confidence in the safety and quality of infant formula products made in China and the number of mothers (and future mothers) who choose to breastfeed their babies may significantly increase. The overall market demand for infant formula products has slowed and may continue to decline and reduced demand for our products will negatively impact our revenues and growth prospects. 21 Table of Contents A severe and prolonged downturn in the Chinese or global economy or continued disruptions in the financial markets may adversely impact our business and results of operations and may limit our access to additional financing. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia continue to experience disruptions that started in late calendar year 2007, including, among other things, volatility in security prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Recovery of the global economy and financial markets is facing new challenges, including the escalation of the European sovereign debt crisis since 2011. Economic conditions in China are sensitive to global economic conditions. Although the Chinese economy began recovering in 2010 and has remained relatively stable since then, it is uncertain whether such recovery will continue. The infant formula industry can be affected by macro economic factors, including changes in national, regional, and local economic conditions, employment levels and consumer spending patterns. A prolonged slowdown in the Chinese or global economy could erode consumer confidence which could result in changes to consumer spending patterns, which could be harmful to our financial position and results of operations. In addition, if the capital and credit markets continue to experience volatility and the availability of funds remains limited, we will incur increased costs associated with equity and/or debt financing. It is possible that our ability to access the capital and credit markets may be limited by these or other factors at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to refinance maturing debt and/or react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, fluctuations in interest rate could impact our floating rate debt negatively and increase our debt obligations. Failure to execute our future expansion plan could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may increase our annual production capacity in the future to meet any expected increase in demand for our products. Our decision to increase our production capacity is based in part on our projections of increases in our sales volume and growth in the size of the infant formula product market in China. If actual customer demand does not meet our projections, we will likely suffer overcapacity problems and have idle capacity, which may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends on our ability to expand our business to address expected growth in demand for our current and future products. Our ability to add production capacity and increase output is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including: ● the availability and cost of additional funding to expand our production capacity, build new processing and packaging facilities, make additional investments in our subsidiaries, acquire additional businesses or production facilities, purchase additional fixed assets and purchase raw materials on favorable terms or at all; ● delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as problems with equipment vendors and suppliers of raw materials; ● failure to maintain high quality control standards; ● global or local shortage of raw materials, such as raw milk or whey protein powder; ● our inability to obtain, or delays in obtaining, required approvals by relevant government authorities; ● diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and ● failure to execute our expansion plan effectively. As our business grows, we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including improvements to our accounting and other internal management systems by dedicating additional resources to our reporting and accounting functions, and improvements to our record keeping and contract tracking system. We will need to respond to competitive market conditions and continue to enhance existing products and develop new products, and retain existing customers and attract new customers. We will also need to recruit more personnel and train and manage our growing employee base. Furthermore, we will need to maintain and expand our relationships with our current and future customers, suppliers, distributors and other third parties, and there is no guarantee that we will succeed. If we encounter any of the risks described above, or are otherwise unable to establish or successfully operate additional production capacity or to increase production output, we may be unable to grow our business and revenues, reduce our operating costs, maintain our competitiveness or improve our profitability, and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects may be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Any future expansion into many of China’s major urban centers may be costly, time-consuming and difficult. If we do not successfully expand into such markets, our results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success may depend upon our ability to successfully expand into many of China’s major urban centers. To further promote our brand and generate demand for our products in such markets, we may increase our spending on marketing and promotion in these urban centers. We may be unable to attract a sufficient number of distributors with the experience and ability to penetrate these markets, and our selected distributors may not be suitable for selling our products in these markets for other reasons. We may also fail to attract new customers in such markets who may have less familiarity with our brand and products. Furthermore, we may fail to anticipate and address competitive conditions in these new markets that are different from those in our existing primary markets. These competitive conditions may make it difficult or impossible for us to effectively operate in these markets. If our expansion efforts in existing and new markets are unsuccessful, our results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. Part of our strategy involves the development of new products and new business segments, and if we fail to timely develop new products or we incorrectly gauge the potential market for new products, our financial results would be adversely affected. We plan to utilize our in-house research and development capabilities to develop new products that could become new sources of revenue for us in the future and help us to diversify our revenue base. We have also entered into new business segments such as the prepared baby food segment, and the nutritional ingredients and supplements segment. Our future research and development efforts will focus on further expanding our product offerings beyond dairy-based nutritional products. If we fail to timely develop these and other new products or if we incorrectly gauge market demand for such new products, we may not be able to grow our sales revenue at expected growth rates and may incur expenses and capital expenditure costs relating to the development of new products that do not generate a positive return on the investment. We operate in a competitive environment, which may lead to declining revenue growth or other circumstances that would negatively affect our results of operations. The market for pediatric nutritional products is competitive, and we believe that competition in this market will continue to intensify. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets are brand recognition, quality, advertising, formulation, packaging, and price. We face significant competition from a number of competitors, including multinational companies, such as Abbot Laboratories’ Ross Products Division, Mead Johnson, Nestle, Numico and Wyeth, and domestic companies, such as Beingmate, Yashili, Feihe and Yili. See “Item 1. Business—Competition”. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, significantly larger market shares, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial resources and economies of scale in financial, sales and marketing, production, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. Some of these competitors have used, and we expect will continue to use, more aggressive pricing strategies, greater amounts of incentives and subsidies for distributors, retailers and customers and more advanced processes and technologies. Furthermore, consolidation among industry participants in China may potentially result in stronger domestic competitors that are better able to compete as end-to-end suppliers as well as competitors who are more specialized in particular areas and geographic markets. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, as a result of the melamine contamination incident, customers have lost confidence in infant formula produced by domestic companies for the time being, which gives multinational infant formula companies an advantage over us. In order to compete successfully in our markets, we will need to continue to restore customer confidence in our brand and products, develop new products and enhance our product offerings while maintaining price competitiveness. Even if we successfully restore customer confidence, if and to the extent we fail to develop new products that differentiate us from our competitors, we may need to compete largely on price, which may cause our operating margins to decline. Our inability to compete successfully against competitors and pricing pressures could result in lost customers, loss of market share and reduced operating margins, which would adversely impact our results of operations. 23 Table of Contents If we grant employee stock options and other stock-based compensation in the future, we will be required to recognize stock-based compensation expense, which would adversely affect our results of operations. As of the date of this Form 10-K, we have not granted any stock-based compensation and thus have not been required to reflect any such expenses in our results of operations. We adopted a stock -based compensation plan in June 2008 and may grant certain employees and directors stock-based compensation, which we believe could be important to attract and retain key personnel. We will be required to account for compensation costs for all stock options, including stock options granted to our directors and employees, using the fair value method and recognize the expense in our consolidated statement of operations, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in China, which may experience corruption. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our company, because these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In additions, the government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability of FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. As of March 31, 2012, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm concluded that we did not have an effective internal control over financial reporting. Our past weaknesses and deficiencies with our internal control over financial reporting have made it necessary for us to restate certain of our financial statements, among other things, in the recent past. Any further failure to accurately report our financial results, including any resulting restatement, could result in harm to our business, loss of investor confidence in our financial reporting and a lower trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, if we fail to meet timely filing obligations due to material weaknesses or significant deficiencies with our internal control over financial reporting, we may face delisting of our common stock by the Nasdaq Global Select Market. We have experienced certain weaknesses and deficiencies with our internal control over financial reporting. Among other things, these deficiencies have made it necessary for us to restate certain of our financial statements in the recent past. Although we have taken steps to address the deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, management has determined that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of March 31, 2012. Management’s conclusion that the Company’s internal control over financial reporting was not effective is based on management’s identification of one material weakness in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Auditing Standard No. 5, “An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting That Is Integrated with An Audit of Financial Statements.” Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd., our independent registered public accounting firm, also expressed an adverse opinion in its attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting because of this material weakness. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Specifically, our material weakness related to the lack of a Chief Financial Officer with requisite skills to perform a sufficient review of the consolidated financial statements and related footnote disclosures based on the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“US GAAP”). As a result, the Company was unable to effectively operate period-end financial reporting and disclosure controls related to unusual and complex transactions. The Company has discussed the material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting with the audit committee of the Board of Directors and is in the process of developing and implementing remediation plans to address the material weakness. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to implement effectively new or improved controls or that our management or our independent registered public accounting firm will determine that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future. Even if our management determines in the future that we have an effective internal control over financial reporting, our independent registered public accounting firm may still disagree with our management and issues an adverse opinion. Moreover, a lack of effective internal control over financial reporting could cause us to fail to provide accurate financial statements or fail to meet our reporting obligations, either of which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our failure to meeting our reporting obligations in a timely fashion may also lead to the delisting of our common stock by the Nasdaq Global Select Market. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures.” 24 Table of Contents Our success depends to a substantial degree upon our senior management and key personnel, and our business operations may be significantly and negatively affected if we fail to attract and retain highly competent senior management and key personnel. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our key personnel including, particularly, Liang Zhang, our chairman and chief executive officer. We rely substantially on their experience in the dairy and nutritional products industry, and on their relationships and ability to work with our suppliers and distributors and other customers. If we lose the services of one or more of these key personnel, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all, with suitable or qualified candidates, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers and key personnel, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key personnel. In addition, if any of these key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our distributors. We have entered into employment agreements with each of these key personnel, which contain confidentiality and non-competition provisions. However, if any disputes were to arise between these key personnel and us, it is not clear, in light of uncertainties associated with the PRC legal system, what the court decisions would be and the extent to which these court decisions could be enforced in China, where most of these key personnel reside and hold some of their assets. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Associated with Doing Business in China—Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us.” Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management and key research and development personnel. Competition for experienced management and research and development personnel in China is intense, and the availability of experienced, suitable and qualified candidates is limited. Competition for these individuals may require us to pay higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also be unable to attract or retain the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives, and any failure in this regard could severely disrupt our business and growth. Liang Zhang’s association with other businesses could impede his ability to devote sufficient time to our business and could present potential conflicts of interest. Liang Zhang, our founder, chairman, chief executive officer and principal beneficial stockholder, controls several other companies in China. Liang Zhang devotes most of his time to our affairs and the remainder of his time to the affairs of the other companies. Liang Zhang’s decision-making responsibilities for these other companies are similar in the areas of public relations, risk management and strategic planning. As a result, conflicts of interest may arise from time to time and we cannot assure you that they will be resolved in our favor. Additionally, even though Liang Zhang devotes most of his time to our affairs and is further accountable to us and our stockholders as a fiduciary, which requires that he exercise good faith and due care in handling our affairs, we cannot assure you this will always be the case and his existing responsibilities to other businesses and entities may limit the amount of time he can spend on our affairs. Our chairman and chief executive officer, Liang Zhang, beneficially owns a substantial amount of our common stock and will have significant influence over our corporate affairs. Our founder, chairman and chief executive officer, Liang Zhang, beneficially owns approximately 62.8% of our outstanding common stock through a company owned by his wife as of March 31, 2012. Accordingly, Liang Zhang will be able to direct the outcome of matters requiring approval of the stockholders, including the election of our directors and other corporate actions such as: · our merger with or into another company; · a sale of our assets; and · amendments to our certificate of incorporation. The decisions of Liang Zhang may conflict with our interests or the interests of our other stockholders. 25 Table of Contents We may not succeed in identifying suitable acquisition targets, which could adversely affect our ability to expand our operations and service offerings and enhance our competitiveness. Our strategy contemplates growth through acquisitions. We have pursued and may in the future pursue strategic acquisition opportunities to increase our scale and geographic presence and expand the number of our product offerings. However, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or, even if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to complete those transactions on terms commercially favorable to us or at all, which could adversely affect our competitiveness and our growth prospects. If we acquire other companies in the future, we could face the following risks: · difficulty in integrating the target company’s personnel, operations, products, services and technology into our operations; · the presence of unforeseen or unrecorded liabilities; · entry into unfamiliar markets; · inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition costs; and · tax and accounting issues. Many recently joined employees may decide not to work with us or to leave shortly after joining our company. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and current employees and increase our expenses, including write-offs or impairment charges. Acquired companies also may not perform to our expectations for various reasons, including the loss of key personnel, key distributors, key suppliers or key customers, and our strategic focus may change. As a result, we may not realize the benefits we anticipated. If we fail to integrate acquired businesses or realize the expected benefits, we may lose the return on the investment in these acquisitions or incur additional transaction costs and our operations may be negatively impacted as a result. Further, any acquisition or investment that we attempt, whether or not completed, or any media reports or rumors with respect to any such transactions, may adversely affect our competitiveness, our growth prospects, and the value of our common stock. Our business is capital intensive and our growth strategy may require additional capital that may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We have, in the past, obtained loans and sold our common stock to raise additional capital. Our business requires significant capital and although we believe that our current cash, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our present and reasonably anticipated cash needs, we may, in the future, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions, implementation of our strategy to expand our production capacity or other investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our own financial resources are insufficient to satisfy our capital requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain additional credit facilities. For example, the melamine contamination incident has significantly impacted our liquidity due to our product recall and required us to obtain additional funding through short-term loans for working capital purposes after the incident. In addition to these short-term loans, we may need to obtain additional private or public financing including debt or equity financing and there can be no assurance that such financing will be available as needed or, if available, on terms favorable to us. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders and such additional equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of our existing common stock. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financial covenants that would restrict our operations. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities or obtain funds for required payments of interest and principal on such additional indebtedness, or if we fail to comply with our debt covenants, we will be in default. Financing may not be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us, or at all, could limit our ability to expand our business operations and could harm our overall business prospects. 26 Table of Contents While we have generated profits of $16.7 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, we have recently incurred operating losses; this may have a harmful effect on our business and the value of our common stock. As a result of the melamine contamination incident, we have incurred losses from the quarter ended September 30, 2008 to the quarter ended December 31, 2009 from the lingering impact of the product recall. In addition, as a result of the prematurity event, we incurred losses for the quarters ended September 30, 2010, December 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011. The melamine contamination incident and the prematurity event had negatively impacted our brand and reputation in China. There can be no assurance that similar future incidents will not occur, and if they were to occur it may negatively impact our future revenues and results of operations. We may face liquidity challenges to meet our debt obligations and may require additional funding in the future. As a result of the melamine contamination incident, we had negative cash flow from operations of $109.5 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. While our results have since improved, we continued to have negative cash flow from operations of $11.8 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. In addition, as a result of the prematurity event, we had negative cash flow from operations of $66.3 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011. We had positive cash flow from operations of $65.7 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. At March 31, 2012, we had short-term debt of $86.6 million and long-term debt due within one year of $40.8 million. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern, however, our ability to meet our debt obligations will depend on our future performance, which will be affected by financial, business, domestic and foreign economic conditions and other factors, many of which we are unable to control. As a result, there can be no assurance that our revenues will generate sufficient cash flows to meet our liquidity needs, and we therefore may have negative cash flows in the future. If our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt, we may be required to obtain additional financing in the future, and such additional financing may not be available at times, in amounts or on terms acceptable to us or at all, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We have limited property insurance coverage and do not carry any business interruption insurance. Operation of our facilities involves many risks, including equipment failures, natural disasters, industrial accidents, power outages, labor disturbances and other business interruptions. Furthermore, if any of our products are faulty or contaminated, then we may become subject to product liability claims or we may have to engage in a product recall. We do not carry any business interruption insurance, and have limited property insurance coverage. Therefore, our existing insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all risks associated with our business. As a result, we may be required to pay for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those caused by natural disasters and other events beyond our control, out of our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, all of the costs we have incurred to date and may incur in the future that are related to our product recall in connection with the melamine contamination incident is not covered by our existing insurance policies. 27 Table of Contents Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights may be costly. We rely primarily on trade secrets and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. We have not registered or applied for protections in China for most of our intellectual property or proprietary technologies relating to the formulations of powdered infant formula that we produce. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on nondisclosure agreements with our employees, licensing partners, third-party producers, consultants, agents and other organizations to which we disclose our proprietary information. The actions we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. As a result, third parties may use the intellectual property or proprietary technologies that we have developed and compete with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. PRC intellectual property-related laws and their implementation are still under development. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or many other countries. In addition, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights and the outcome of any such litigation may not be in our favor. Given the relative unpredictability of China’s legal system and potential difficulties enforcing a court judgment in China, there is no guarantee that we would be able to halt the unauthorized use of our intellectual property through litigation in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, any such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention away from our business and cause us to expend significant resources. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely against us, could disrupt our business and subject us to significant liability to third parties. Our success largely depends on our ability to use and develop our know-how and product formulations without infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights of third parties. The holders of patents and other intellectual property rights potentially relevant to our product offerings may be unknown to us or may otherwise make it difficult for us to acquire a license on commercially acceptable terms. There may also be technologies licensed to and relied on by us that are subject to infringement or other corresponding allegations or claims by others which could damage our ability to rely on such technologies. In addition, although we endeavor to ensure that companies that work with us possess appropriate intellectual property rights or licenses, we cannot fully avoid the risks of intellectual property rights infringement created by suppliers of raw materials used in our products, our third-party producers, or by companies with which we work in cooperative research and development activities. Our current or potential competitors, many of which have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, may have obtained or may obtain patents that will prevent, limit or interfere with our ability to make, use or sell our products in China or other countries. The defense of intellectual property claims, including patent infringement suits, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time-consuming, and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse determination in any such litigation or proceeding to which we may become a party could cause us to: · pay damage awards; · seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; · pay additional ongoing royalties, which could decrease our profit margins; · redesign our products, which may be costly, if possible at all; or · be restricted by injunctions. These factors could effectively prevent us from pursuing some or all of our business and result in our customers or potential customers deferring, canceling or limiting their purchase or use of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increased IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions and services. Increased global IT security threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime pose a risk to the security of our systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of our data. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, our systems, networks, products, solutions and services remain potentially vulnerable to advanced persistent threats. Depending on their nature and scope, such threats could potentially lead to the compromising of confidential information, improper use of our systems and networks, manipulation and destruction of data, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions, which in turn could materially adversely affect our reputation, competitiveness and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Risks Associated With Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct our operations and generate all of our revenues in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the higher level of government involvement and regulation; · the early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · the rapid growth rate; · the higher rate of inflation; · the higher level of control over foreign exchange; and · government control over the allocation of many resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the PRC economy through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in PRC laws and regulations, including those relating to how we conduct our business, taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant adverse effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in PRC properties or joint ventures. 29 Table of Contents PRC food hygiene and safety laws may become more onerous, which may adversely affect our operations and financial performance and lead to an increase in our costs which we may be unable to pass on to our customers. Operators within the PRC dairy industry and infant formula sector are subject to compliance with PRC food hygiene and safety laws and regulations. Such laws and regulations require all enterprises engaged in the production of dairy and infant formula products to obtain a hygiene license. They also set out hygiene standards with respect to food and food additives, packaging and containers, and labeling on packaging as well as hygiene requirements for food production and sites, facilities and equipment used for the transportation and the sale of food. Failure to comply with PRC food hygiene and safety laws may result in fines, suspension of operations, loss of hygiene license and, in certain cases, criminal proceedings against an enterprise and its management. Although we are in compliance with current PRC food hygiene and safety laws and regulations, in the event that such laws and regulations become more stringent or widen in scope, we may fail to comply with such laws, or if we comply, our production and distribution costs may increase, and we may be unable to pass these additional costs on to our customers. For example, in response to the melamine contamination incident, the PRC State Council abolished the regulations on inspection exemptions for food on September 18, 2008 so that our products were to be subject to batch by batch inspection going forward. In addition, the PRC State Council promulgated with immediate effect the Regulation on Supervision and Administration of Quality and Safety of Dairy Products on October 9, 2008 which, among other things, imposes more stringent requirements for inspection, production, packaging, labeling and product recall on dairy product producers. These measures have increased our costs in the past and are likely to continue to contribute to our costs in the future, which costs we may be unable to pass on to our customers. Changes in the regulatory environment for dairy and infant nutrition products in China could negatively impact our business. The dairy and infant nutrition product industries in China are regulated and regulatory changes may affect both our customers and us. Any changes in regulations that impose additional requirements for construction of new production lines and facilities or expansion of existing facilities will require us to secure additional government approvals for our current production expansion projects. Similarly, additional safety and quality control regulations could impact our costs of production. For example, on June 26, 2009, NDRC and MIIT jointly, promulgated the Dairy Industry Policies (2009 Version), or the Policies. The Policies impose new conditions that an entity must satisfy in order to engage, or continue to engage, in the dairy products processing business. For a more detailed description of these requirements, see “Item 1. Business—Regulation”. Although we believe our existing entities and facilities meet the Policies requirements, it is possible that our future expansion plans or the establishment of new entities may fail to meet one or more of the requirements under the Policies in the future. Failure to comply with these or any other changes in regulations affecting our business could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. In addition, the indirect impact of any such changes could adversely affect our business even if the specific regulations do not directly apply to our products or us. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct our business through our operating subsidiaries in China. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference, but have limited precedential value. Over the past several decades, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 30 Table of Contents If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable laws, we may incur additional expenditures or be subject to significant fines and penalties. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to us. However, many PRC laws and regulations are uncertain in their scope, and the implementation of such laws and regulations in different localities could have significant differences. In certain instances, local implementation rules and/or the actual implementation are not necessarily consistent with the regulations at the national level. Although we strive to comply with all the applicable PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not later determine that we have not been in compliance with certain laws or regulations. For example, there is a PRC regulation requiring all employees to make contributions to a housing fund based on their salary level and their employers to match such contributions. However, many employees are reluctant to make such contributions as they do not perceive such contribution will benefit them, and this regulation has generally not been rigorously enforced. We have allowed our employees to make contributions on a voluntary basis and then match their contributions. However, we cannot assure you that in the future the PRC government will not start to enforce this regulation more rigorously. Although there are no material penalties stipulated in this regulation, if we are found not to be in compliance, we may be required to bring current any past deficiencies, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the PRC State Administration for Industry and Commerce, the PRC State Administration of Taxation, the PRC Ministry of Health and Hygiene Permitting Office, the PRC General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine, and the PRC State Food and Drug Administration Bureau relating to the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, labeling, quality, and safety of food products. Our failure to comply with these and other applicable laws and regulations in China could subject us to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, as well as civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of our products. It is possible that changes to such laws, more rigorous enforcement of such laws or with respect to our current or past practices, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, additional environmental, health or safety issues relating to matters that are not currently known to management may result in unanticipated liabilities and expenditures. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales revenue effectively. All of our sales revenue is denominated in Renminbi. Under PRC law, the Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC operating subsidiaries may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service−related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior SAFE approval by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, after complying with certain procedural requirements, our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior approval from SAFE. However, approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions in the future. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders. 31 Table of Contents Recent PRC regulations relating to investment activities by, and holdings in entities outside of China of, PRC residents and citizens, may subject our PRC resident and citizen stockholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially and adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE issued a public notice, the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, or Notice 75. In May 2007, SAFE issued the Notice of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on Operating Procedures Concerning Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund Raising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Notice 106. According to Notice 75 and Notice 106, prior registration with the local SAFE branch is required for PRC residents to establish or to control an offshore company for the purposes of financing that offshore company with assets or equity interests in an onshore enterprise located in the PRC. An amendment to registration or filing with the local SAFE branch by such PRC resident is also required for the injection of equity interests or assets of an onshore enterprise in the offshore company or overseas funds raised by such offshore company, or any other material change involving a change in the capital of the offshore company. Moreover, Notice 75 and Notice 106 apply retroactively. As a result, PRC residents who have established or acquired control of offshore companies that have made onshore investments in the PRC in the past were required to complete the relevant registration with the local SAFE branch. If any PRC stockholder of any offshore special purpose company fails to make the required SAFE registration and amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Many of the terms and provisions in Notice 75 and Notice 106 remain unclear and implementation by central SAFE and local SAFE branches of Notice 75 and Notice 106 have been inconsistent since their adoption. Based on the advice of our PRC counsel, De Heng Law Offices, and after consultation with relevant SAFE officials, our PRC resident stockholders and the PRC resident beneficial stockholders of Meitek may be required to complete their respective SAFE registrations pursuant to Notice 75 and Notice 106. The local SAFE branch may not accept their applications for SAFE registration until more detailed rules or announcements concerning the penalties for those who failed to make their SAFE registrations are implemented. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Notice 75 and Notice 106 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Notice 75 and Notice 106 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Notice 75 and Notice 106. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders, the PRC resident beneficial stockholders of Meitek, or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with the SAFE notice, if SAFE requires it, could subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiary’s ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Because our earnings and cash assets are denominated in Renminbi, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long-term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future the PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currencies. Currently, some of our raw materials and major equipment are imported. In the event that the U.S. dollar appreciated against the Renminbi, our costs may increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will suffer. In addition, to the extent we enter markets outside China in the future, we may be increasingly subject to the risk of foreign currency fluctuations. 32 Table of Contents Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to our shareholders, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. Our revenues are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividend by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Each of our PRC subsidiaries is also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of our annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles in the PRC (“PRC GAAP”) to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in such fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. As of March 31, 2012, the amount of our restricted net assets was $96.0 million. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Under China’s New Enterprise Income Tax Law (“EIT Law”), we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. This classification could result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC shareholders. The New EIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their worldwide income. In addition, a circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation regarding the standards used to classify certain Chinese-invested enterprises established outside of China as “resident enterprises” clarified that dividends and other income paid by such “resident enterprises” will be considered to be PRC source income, subject to PRC withholding tax, currently at a rate of 10%, when recognized by non-PRC shareholders. This circular also subjects such “resident enterprises” to various reporting requirements with the PRC tax authorities. Under the implementation regulations to the enterprise income tax, a “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. In addition, the circular mentioned above details that certain Chinese-invested enterprises will be classified as “resident enterprises” if the following are located or reside in China: senior management personnel and departments that are responsible for daily production, operation and management; financial and personnel decision making bodies; key properties, accounting books, company seal, and minutes of board meetings and shareholders’ meetings; and half or more of the directors or senior management having voting rights. If the PRC tax authorities determine that Synutra, Inc. or Synutra International, Inc. are “resident enterprises,” we may be subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income and dividends paid by us to our non-PRC shareholders and, while less clear, capital gains recognized by them with respect to the sale of our stock, may be subject to a PRC withholding tax. This will have an impact on our effective tax rate, a material adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, and may require us to withhold tax on our non-PRC shareholders. We are actively monitoring the “resident enterprise” classification rules and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to tax in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be creditable against our U.S. tax. The M&A Rule establishes more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, promulgated the Provisions Regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule establishes additional procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the PRC Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction and in some situations, require approval of the PRC Ministry of Commerce when a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. The M&A Rule also requires PRC Ministry of Commerce anti-trust review of any change-of-control transactions involving certain types of foreign acquirers. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the PRC Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could adversely affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. 33 Table of Contents Our shareholders may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us. We are a Delaware holding company and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for our shareholders to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for our shareholders to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. DeHeng Law Offices, our counsel as to PRC law, has advised us that the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are provided for under the PRC Civil Procedures Law. Courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security or public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. The PRC government’s recent measures to curb inflation rates could adversely affect our future results of operations. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and high rates of inflation. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. For example, in April 2012, the change in China’s Consumer Price Index increased 3.4% from the prior year according to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, or the NBS. If prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and constrain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other actions, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. In the last few years, the government of China has undertaken various measures to alleviate the effects of inflation, including imposing national price controls on various products, including milk.The government of China may conclude that the prices of infant formula or our other products are too high and may institute price controls that would limit our ability to set prices for our products. The government of China has also encouraged local governments to institute price controls on similar products. Such price controls could adversely affect our future results of operations and the price of our common stock. Our labor costs are likely to increase due to new Chinese labor laws. We expect to experience an increase in our cost of labor due to changes in Chinese labor laws which are likely to increase costs further and impose restrictions on our relationship with our employees. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law and more strictly enforced existing labor laws. The new law, which became effective on January 1, 2008, amended and formalized workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. As a result of the new law, we have had to reduce the number of hours of overtime our employees can work, increase the salaries of our employees, provide additional benefits to our employees, and revise certain of our other labor practices. The increase in labor cost has increased our operating costs, which we have not always been able to pass through to our customers. In addition, under the new law, employees who have worked for us for at least 10 years or who have had two consecutive fixed-term contracts must be given an “open-ended employment contract” that, in effect, constitutes a lifetime, permanent contract, which is terminable only in the event the employee materially breaches our rules and regulations or is in serious dereliction of his or her duty. Such non-cancelable employment contracts will substantially increase our employment related risks and limit our ability to downsize our workforce in the event of an economic downturn. No assurance can be given that we will not in the future be subject to labor strikes or that we will not have to make other payments to resolve future labor issues caused by the new laws. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the labor laws will not change further or that their interpretation and implementation will vary, which may have a negative effect upon our business and results of operations. 34 Table of Contents The PRC government may deem the control agreements between us and certain of our consolidated affiliated entities to be non-compliant with restrictions on foreign investment and as a result we may be subject to penalties or required to perform a costly restructuring of these entities. PRC laws and regulations currently restrict foreign entities from establishing clinical business in China. Foreign entities that wish to establish medical clinical businesses in China must have domestic entities as partners. In order to comply with PRC law and avoid restrictions on foreign investment in medical clinical operations, we operate our medical treatment services (mostly pre-natal diagnostics services) through four entities -- Nanjing Shengyuan Huiren Clinical Examination Co., Ltd., Taiyuan Shengyuan Huiren Clinical Examination Co., Ltd, Shijiazhuang Shengyuan Huiren Clinical Examination Co., Ltd and Heilongjiang Shengyuan Huiren Clinical Examination Co., Ltd (the “Four Entities”) that are not directly owned by us. We control and consolidate these entities into our group consolidated results through a series of contractual arrangements. See “Item 1, Business—Our Corporate Structure and History” and “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.” The contractual arrangements we have in place are governed by PRC law. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current and future PRC laws and regulations on these contractual agreements and it is possible that the PRC authorities may in the future find these arrangements unlawful. If these arrangements were to be deemed unlawful, the PRC authorities have broad discretion to penalize us, including: · revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates; · discontinuing or restricting our PRC subsidiaries’ and affiliates’ operations; · imposing fines or confiscating the income of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliates; · requiring us or our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or · taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our clinic examination business. Furthermore, we have no assurance that Jibin Zhang and Yunpeng Jiang, parties to these control agreements, will continue to cooperate with us and honor these control agreements. There is a risk that they will not always act in our best interests. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or dispute that may arise between them and us, we may have to take legal action to compel them to fulfill their contractual obligations and there is substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. It may be difficult for us to change our corporate structure or to bring claims against the Four Entities if they do not perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements. The audit reports included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. As an auditor of companies that are publicly traded in the United States and a firm registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, our independent registered public accounting firm is required by the laws in the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and the professional standards of the PCAOB. However, because our auditor is located in the PRC, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditor is not currently inspected by the PCAOB. Inspections of other auditors conducted by the PCAOB outside of China have at times identified deficiencies in those auditor’s audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor's audits and its quality control procedures. In addition, the inability of the PCAOB to conduct auditor inspections in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor's audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors located outside of China that are subject to regular PCAOB inspections. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections, and may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock is volatile, and its value may be depressed at a time when our stockholders want to sell their holdings. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. For instance, between July 1, 2008 and March 31, 2012, the price of our common stock, as reported on the NASDAQ on which our common stock has traded, ranged between $4.05 and $52.24. Though we believe this dramatic fluctuation resulted mainly from the melamine contamination incident, the prematurity event and the worldwide market disruption, numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our common stock may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. Factors such as variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our products could cause the market price for our shares to change substantially. In addition, our stock price may be impacted by the performance, reputation, or stock prices of other Chinese companies that are listed in the U.S. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. The trading market for our common stock will also be influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock, the market price for our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price for our common stock or trading volume to decline. Furthermore, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when our stockholders want to sell their interest in us. 35 Table of Contents Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the common stock of many companies quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and this low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Although our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume of our common stock has generally been very low. Reported average daily trading volume in our common stock for the three month period ended March 31, 2012 was approximately 50,877 shares. Limited trading volume will subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to them. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a change-of-control that our stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: · our board of directors is divided into three classes, with approximately one-third of our directors elected each year; · our board of directors has the right to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; · our stockholders must provide timely notice for any stockholder proposals and director nominations; · we have adopted provisions that eliminate the personal liability of directors for monetary damages for actions taken as a director, with certain exceptions; and · our board of directors may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock, which makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 36 Table of Contents 