ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We could record future losses on our investment securities portfolio. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an additional impairment that is other-than- temporary, which could result in material losses to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, continued failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair values of the trust preferred securities could decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continue to deteriorate and there remains limited liquidity for these securities. 31 Effective December 10, 2013, pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, federal banking and securities regulators issued final rules to implement Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act (the “Volcker Rule”). Generally, subject to a transition period and certain exceptions, the Volcker Rule restricts insured depository institutions and their affiliated companies from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, investing in funds with collateral comprised of less than 100% loans that are not registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and from engaging in hedging activities that do not hedge a specific identified risk. After the transition period, the Volcker Rule prohibitions and restrictions will apply to banking entities unless an exception applies. We are currently analyzing the impact of the Volcker Rule on our investment portfolio, and if any changes are required to our investment strategies that could negatively affect our earnings. We have been negatively affected by prevailing local and national market and economic conditions. A worsening of these conditions could adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. Although the U.S. economy has emerged from the severe recession that occurred in 2008 and 2009, economic growth has been slow and uneven, and unemployment levels remain high despite the Federal Reserve Board’s unprecedented efforts to encourage economic growth by maintaining low interest rates through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of U.S. Treasury and mortgage-backed securities. Recovery by many businesses has been impaired by lower consumer spending. A return to prolonged deteriorating economic conditions could significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. If the Federal Reserve Board increases the federal funds rate or more rapidly curtails its bond purchasing program, higher interest rates would likely result, which may reduce our loan originations, and housing markets and U.S. economic activity would be negatively affected. Further declines in real estate values and sales volumes and continued elevated unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies, increases in our nonperforming and criticized classified assets and a decline in demand for our products and services. These events could then result in further increases in loan loss provisions, costs associated with monitoring delinquent loans and disposing of foreclosed property, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Concentration of loans in our primary market area, which has experienced an economic downturn, may increase risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the State of Connecticut, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in the state. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in the State of Connecticut have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in this market would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, continued weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. Strong competition within our market area may limit our growth and profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, recently some of our larger financial institution competitors, offer loans with lower interest rates on more attractive terms than those offered by Putnam Bank, which we expect to continue in the foreseeable future. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by our competition may limit our ability to increase our interest earning assets. For additional information see “Business of Putnam Bank—Competition.” Because we intend to increase our commercial real estate and commercial loan originations, our lending risk will increase and downturns in the real estate market or local economy could adversely affect our earnings. Commercial real estate and commercial loans generally have more risk than residential mortgage loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and commercial loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. Commercial real estate and commercial loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely impact the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of non-performing loans. As our commercial real estate and commercial loan portfolio increases, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. 32 If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Our allowance for loan losses was 1.02% of total loans and 33.73% of non-performing loans at June 30, 2014. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Because we originate a significant number of mortgage loans secured by residential real estate, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for such loans. At June 30, 2014, loans secured by real estate represented 98.9% of our total loans, substantially all of which are secured by properties located in Windham County. Adverse changes in the economy also may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. As of June 30, 2014, the unemployment rate in Windham County, Connecticut was 7.3%, and the New London County unemployment rate was 6.6% compared to the national unemployment rate of 6.1% and the unemployment rate for Connecticut as a whole of 6.4%. Future changes in interest rates may reduce our profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: ● the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and ● the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The rates we earn on our assets and the rates we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Like many savings institutions, our liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers speed up prepayments of mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called, requiring us to reinvest those cash flows at lower interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk, Liquidity and Capital resources.” In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. At June 30, 2014, our “rate shock” analysis prepared by our third party consultant indicates that our net portfolio value would decrease by $11.4 million if there was an instantaneous 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk, Liquidity and Capital resources.” 33 Historically low interest rates have adversely affect our net interest income and profitability. During the past three years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, market rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased have been at lower levels than as available prior to 2008. Consequently, the average yield on our interest earning assets has decreased to 3.26% for the year ended June 30, 2014 from 4.12% for the year ended June 30, 2012. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets. This has resulted in increases in net interest income in the short term. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has indicated its intention to continue to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may decrease, which may have an adverse effect on our profitability. Declines in property values can increase the loan-to-value ratios on our residential mortgage loan portfolio, which could expose us to greater risk of loss. Some of our residential mortgage loans are secured by liens on mortgage properties in which the borrowers have little or no equity because either we originated the loan with a relatively high combined loan-to-value ratio or because of the decline in home values in our market areas. Residential loans with high combined loan-to-value ratios will be more sensitive to declining property values than those with lower combined loan-to-value ratios and therefore may experience a higher incidence of default and severity of losses. In addition, if the borrowers sell their homes, such borrowers may be unable to repay their loans in full from the sale proceeds. As a result, these loans may experience higher rates of delinquencies, defaults and losses. The financial services sector represents a significant concentration within our investment portfolio. Within our investment portfolio, we have a significant amount of marketable equity, corporate debt and mortgage-backed securities issued by companies in the financial services sector. Given current market conditions, this sector has an enhanced level of credit risk. We are also reviewing the requirements of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (“Basel III”) regulatory capital reforms and the possibility that our retention of these securities may reduce our risk based regulatory capital. If our investment in the common stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston is classified as other-than-temporarily impaired or as permanently impaired, earnings and stockholders’ equity could decrease. We own stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, which is part of the Federal Home Loan Bank system. The Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston common stock is held to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston and to be eligible to borrow funds under the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston’s advance programs. The aggregate cost of our Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston common stock as of June 30, 2014, was $5.9 million based on its par value. There is no market for Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston common stock. Although the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston is not reporting current operating difficulties, it is possible that the capital of the Federal Home Loan Bank system, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, could be substantially diminished. This could occur with respect to an individual Federal Home Loan Bank due to the requirement that each Federal Home Loan Bank is jointly and severally liable along with the other Federal Home Loan Banks for the consolidated obligations issued through the Office of Finance, a joint office of the Federal Home Loan Banks, or due to the merger of a Federal Home Loan Bank experiencing operating difficulties into a stronger Federal Home Loan Bank. Consequently, there continues to be a risk that our investment in Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston common stock could be deemed other-than-temporarily impaired at some time in the future, and if this occurs, it would cause our earnings and stockholders’ equity to decrease by the impairment charge. Stockholders other than our mutual holding company own a minority of PSB Holdings, Inc.’s common stock and are not able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. Public stockholders own a minority of the outstanding shares of PSB Holdings, Inc. common stock. As a result, stockholders other than Putnam Bancorp, MHC are not able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. Putnam Bancorp, MHC owns a majority of PSB Holdings, Inc.’s common stock and, through its Board of Directors, is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. The same directors and officers who manage PSB Holdings, Inc. and Putnam Bank also manage Putnam Bancorp, MHC. Putnam Bancorp, MHC may exercise its voting control to prevent a sale or merger transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium for their shares. 34 Our stock value may be negatively affected by federal regulations restricting takeovers and our mutual holding company structure. Federal regulations restricting takeovers. Regulatory policy prohibits the acquisition of a mutual holding company subsidiary by any person or entity other than a mutual holding company or a mutual institution. While Putnam Bancorp, MHC’s regulator recently changed, there can be no assurance that there will be a change in this policy. The mutual holding company structure may impede takeovers. Putnam Bancorp, MHC, as the majority stockholder of PSB Holdings, Inc., is able to control the outcome of virtually all matters presented to stockholders for their approval, including a proposal to acquire PSB Holdings, Inc. Accordingly, Putnam Bancorp, MHC may prevent the sale of control or merger of PSB Holdings, Inc. or its subsidiaries even if such a transaction were favored by a majority of the public stockholders of PSB Holdings, Inc. The corporate governance provisions in our charter and bylaws may prevent or impede the holders of a minority of our common stock from obtaining representation on our Board of Directors. Provisions in our charter and by-laws may prevent or impede holders of a minority of our common stock from obtaining representation on our board of directors. For example, our board of directors is divided into three staggered classes. A classified board makes it more difficult for stockholders to change a majority of the directors because it generally takes at least two annual elections of directors for this to occur. Second, our charter provides that there will not be cumulative voting by stockholders for the election of our directors which means that Putnam Bancorp, MHC, as the holder of a majority of the shares eligible to be voted at a meeting of stockholders, may elect all of our directors to be elected at that meeting. Third, our by-laws contain procedures and timetables for a stockholder wanting to make a nomination for the election of directors or a proposal for new business at a meeting of stockholders, the effect of which may be to give our management time to solicit its own proxies in an attempt to defeat any dissident slate of nominations if management thinks it is in the best interest of stockholders generally. Federal policy on remutualization transactions could prohibit acquisition of PSB Holdings, Inc., which may lower our stock price. Current federal regulations permit a mutual holding company to be acquired by a mutual institution in a remutualization transaction. However, the Office of Thrift Supervision, Putnam Bancorp, MHC’s previous regulator, issued a policy statement indicating that it viewed remutualization transactions as raising significant issues concerning disparate treatment of minority stockholders and the mutual interests of the mutual holding company, and also raising issues concerning the effect on the mutual interests of the acquiring entity. The policy statement indicated that, under certain circumstances, these transactions would receive special scrutiny and would be rejected unless the applicant can clearly demonstrate that the regulatory concerns are not warranted in the particular case. The Federal Reserve Board, the successor to the Office of Thrift Supervision as the regulator of mutual holding companies, has not formally indicated whether or not it intends to follow such policy statement. Should these transactions be prohibited or otherwise restricted in the future, our per-share stock price may be adversely affected. Government responses to economic conditions may adversely affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has changed the bank regulatory framework, created an independent consumer protection bureau that has assumed the consumer protection responsibilities of the various federal banking agencies, and established more stringent capital standards for banks and bank holding companies. Bank regulatory agencies also have been responding aggressively to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations. Ongoing uncertainty and adverse developments in the financial services industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the effect of the Dodd-Frank Act and regulatory actions, may adversely affect our operations by restricting our business activities, including our ability to originate or sell loans, modify loan terms, or foreclose on property securing loans. These risks could affect the performance and value of our loan and investment securities portfolios, which also would negatively affect our financial performance. 35 The Dodd-Frank Act and related regulations may have an adverse effect on our ability to pay dividends, which would adversely affect the value of our common stock. The value of PSB Holdings, Inc.’s common stock is significantly affected by its ability to pay dividends to its public stockholders. PSB Holdings, Inc.’s ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is subject to the ability of Putnam Bank to make capital distributions to PSB Holdings, Inc., or the availability of cash at the holding company level in the event Putnam Bank’s earnings are not sufficient to pay dividends. Moreover, the amount of the dividends that we are able to pay our public stockholders is affected by the ability of Putnam Bancorp, MHC, our mutual holding company, to waive the receipt of dividends declared by PSB Holdings, Inc. Regulations of the Office of Thrift Supervision, our previous federal regulator, allowed federally chartered mutual holding companies to waive dividends without taking into account the amount of waived dividends in determining an appropriate exchange ratio in the event of a conversion of a mutual holding company to stock form. However, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the powers and duties of the Office of Thrift Supervision relating to mutual holding companies have been transferred to the Federal Reserve Board, and the Office of Thrift Supervision was eliminated. The Dodd-Frank Act also provides that a mutual holding company must give the Federal Reserve Board notice before waiving the receipt of dividends, and sets forth certain standards for allowing a waiver of dividends by a mutual holding company. Under these standards, waived dividends must be considered in determining an appropriate exchange ratio in the event of a conversion of the mutual holding company to stock form, unless a mutual holding company has waived dividends prior to December 1, 2009, which Putnam Bancorp, MHC has done. However, the Federal Reserve Board has recently issued an interim final rule requiring that, even where a mutual holding company has waived dividends prior to December 1, 2009, a majority of the mutual holding company’s members eligible to vote must approve a waiver of dividends by the mutual holding company within 12 months prior to the declaration of the dividend being waived. Accordingly, the ability of Putnam Bancorp, MHC to waive dividends in the future is uncertain. We are subject to extensive regulatory oversight. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. Regulators have intensified their focus on bank lending criteria and controls, and on the USA PATRIOT Act’s anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There also is increased scrutiny of our compliance practices generally and particularly with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. Our failure to comply with these and other regulatory requirements could lead to, among other remedies, administrative enforcement actions and legal proceedings. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act and implementing regulations are likely to have a significant effect on the financial services industry, which are likely to increase operating costs and reduce profitability. Regulatory or legislative changes could make regulatory compliance more difficult or expensive for us, and could cause us to change or limit some of our products and services, or the way we operate our business. Proposed and final regulations could restrict our ability to originate and sell loans. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has issued a rule, effective January 10, 2014, designed to clarify for lenders how they can avoid legal liability under the Dodd-Frank Act, which would hold lenders accountable for ensuring a borrower’s ability to repay a mortgage. Loans that meet this “qualified mortgage” definition will be presumed to have complied with the new ability-to-repay standard. Under the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule, a “qualified mortgage” loan must not contain certain specified features, including: ● excessive upfront points and fees (those exceeding 3% of the total loan amount, less “bona fide discount points” for prime loans); ● interest-only payments; ● negative-amortization; and ● terms of longer than 30 years. The final rule also establishes general underwriting criteria for qualified mortgages, including that the consumer has a total (or “back end”) debt-to-income ratio that is less than or equal to 43%. Lenders must also verify and document the income and financial resources relied upon to qualify the borrower on the loan and underwrite the loan based on a fully amortizing payment schedule and maximum interest rate during the first five years, taking into account all applicable taxes, insurance and assessments. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule on qualified mortgages could limit our ability or desire to make certain types of loans or loans to certain borrowers, or could make it more costly/and or time consuming to make these loans, which could limit our growth or profitability. 36 In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the regulatory agencies to issue regulations that require securitizers of loans to retain “not less than 5% of the credit risk for any asset that is not a qualified residential mortgage.” The regulatory agencies initially issued a proposed rule to implement this requirement in April 2011. A revised proposed rule was issued in August 2013. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the definition of “qualified residential mortgage” can be no broader than the definition of “qualified mortgage” issued by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau for purposes of its regulations. Although the final rule with respect to the retention of credit risk has not yet been issued, the final rule could have a significant effect on the secondary market for loans and the types of loans we originate, and restrict our ability to make loans. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits at maturity and support our future growth. We must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. As a part of our liquidity management, we use a number of funding sources in addition to core deposit growth and repayments and maturities of loans and investments. As we continue to grow, we are likely to become more dependent on these sources, which include Federal Home Loan Bank advances, proceeds from the sale of loans, federal funds purchased and brokered certificates of deposit. Adverse operating results or changes in industry conditions could lead to difficulty or an inability to access these additional funding sources. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. If we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our operating margins and profitability would be adversely affected. Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, we face significant operational risks. We operate in diverse markets and rely on the ability of our employees and systems to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from our operations, including but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements, and business continuation and disaster recovery. Insurance coverage may not be available for such losses, or where available, such losses may exceed insurance limits. This risk of loss also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative publicity. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or improper employee actions, we could suffer financial loss, face regulatory action, and suffer damage to our reputation. Risks associated with system failures, interruptions, or breaches of security could negatively affect our earnings. Information technology systems are critical to our business. We use various technology systems to manage our customer relationships, general ledger, securities, deposits, and loans. We have established policies and procedures to prevent or limit the impact of system failures, interruptions, and security breaches, but such events may still occur and may not be adequately addressed if they do occur. In addition any compromise of our systems could deter customers from using our products and services. Although we rely on security systems to provide security and authentication necessary to effect the secure transmission of data, these precautions may not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of security. In addition, we outsource some of our data processing to certain third-party providers. If these third-party providers encounter difficulties, or if we have difficulty communicating with them, our ability to adequately process and account for transactions could be affected, and our business operations could be adversely affected. Threats to information security also exist in the processing of customer information through various other vendors and their personnel. The occurrence of any system failures, interruption, or breach of security could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers and business thereby subjecting us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or could expose us to litigation and possible financial liability. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 37 Legal and regulatory proceedings and related matters could adversely affect us or the financial services industry in general. We, and other participants in the financial services industry upon whom we rely to operate, have been and may in the future become involved in legal and regulatory proceedings. Most of the proceedings we consider to be in the normal course of our business or typical for the industry; however, it is inherently difficult to assess the outcome of these matters, and other participants in the financial services industry or we may not prevail in any proceeding or litigation. There could be substantial cost and management diversion in such litigation and proceedings, and any adverse determination could have a materially adverse effect on our business, brand or image, or our financial condition and results of our operations. Our business may be adversely affected by an increasing prevalence of fraud and other financial crimes. Our loans to businesses and individuals and our deposit relationships and related transactions are subject to exposure to the risk of loss due to fraud and other financial crimes. Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased. We have also experienced losses due to apparent fraud and other financial crimes. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent such losses, losses may still occur. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 38 