ITEM 1A. Risk Factors We could record future losses on our investment securities portfolio. A number of factors or combinations of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss that exists with respect to these securities constitutes an additional impairment that is other than temporary, which could result in material losses to us. These factors include, but are not limited to, continued failure to make scheduled interest payments, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value. In addition, the fair values of the trust preferred securities could decline if the overall economy and the financial condition of some of the issuers continue to deteriorate and there remains limited liquidity for these securities. 30 The United States economy is in a deep recession. A prolonged economic downturn, especially one affecting our geographic market area, would likely adversely affect our business and financial results. Negative developments in the global credit and securitization markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets during the latter half of 2007 and during 2008 and 2009, with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing through the remainder of 2009 and into 2010. Loan portfolio quality has deteriorated at many institutions, reflecting in part, the deteriorating U.S. economy and rising unemployment. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages have declined and may continue to decline. The continuing real estate slump also has resulted in reduced demand for the construction of new housing and increased delinquencies in construction, residential and commercial mortgage loans. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have declined substantially, and it is significantly more difficult for banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets. Specifically, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Quarterly Banking Profile has reported that noncurrent assets plus other real estate owned as a percentage of assets for FDIC insured financial institutions rose to 2.77% as of June 30, 2009, compared to 0.95% as of December 31, 2007. For the six months ended June 30, 2009, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Quarterly Banking Profile has reported that annualized return on average assets was 0.04% for FDIC insured financial institutions compared to 0.81% for the year ended December 31, 2007. The NASDAQ Bank Index declined 42.0% between December 31, 2007 and June 30, 2009. Continued negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Further, continued declines in the stock market in general, or for stock of financial institutions and their holding companies, could affect our stock performance. Changes in laws and regulations and the cost of regulatory compliance with new laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and our income. In response to the developments described above, Congress has taken actions that are intended to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in financial institutions, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation has taken actions to increase insurance coverage on deposit accounts. In addition, there have been proposals made by members of Congress and others that would reduce the amount distressed borrowers are otherwise contractually obligated to pay under their mortgage loans and limit an institution’s ability to foreclose on mortgage collateral. The potential exists for additional federal or state laws and regulations, or changes in policy, regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be active in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Bank regulatory agencies, such as the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, govern the activities in which we may engage, primarily for the protection of depositors, and not for the protection or benefit of potential investors. In addition, new laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes may increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. New laws, regulations, and other regulatory changes may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our loans and investments, and our ongoing operations, costs and profitability. Proposals limiting our rights as a creditor could result in credit losses or increased expense in pursuing our remedies as a creditor. 31 Concentration of loans in our primary market area, which has recently experienced an economic downturn, may increase risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the State of Connecticut, as nearly all of our loans are to customers in the state. Accordingly, the local economic conditions in the State of Connecticut have a significant impact on the ability of borrowers to repay loans as well as our ability to originate new loans. As such, a decline in real estate valuations in this market would lower the value of the collateral securing those loans. In addition, a significant weakening in general economic conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could negatively affect our financial results. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth and Profitability. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. In our market area, we compete with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage brokerage firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms operating locally and elsewhere. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. In addition, recently some of our larger financial institution competitors, offer loans with lower interest rates on more attractive terms than those offered by Putnam Bank, which we expect to continue in the foreseeable future. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in our market area. The greater resources and deposit and loan products offered by our competition may limit our ability to increase our interest earning assets. For additional information see “Business of Putnam Bank—Competition.” Because We Intend to Increase Our Commercial Real Estate and Commercial Loan Originations, Our Lending Risk Will Increase and Downturns in the Real Estate Market or Local Economy Could Adversely Affect Our Earnings. Commercial real estate and commercial loans generally have more risk than residential mortgage loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate and commercial loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower’s properties or related businesses, repayment of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. Commercial real estate and commercial loans may also involve relatively large loan balances to individual borrowers or groups of related borrowers. A downturn in the real estate market or the local economy could adversely impact the value of properties securing the loan or the revenues from the borrower’s business thereby increasing the risk of nonperforming loans. As our commercial real estate and commercial loan portfolio increases, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. If Economic Conditions Deteriorate, Our Results of Operations and Financial Condition Could Be Adversely Affected as Borrowers’ Ability to Repay Loans Declines and the Value of the Collateral Securing Our Loans Decreases. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including decreases in real estate values, changes in interest rates which may cause a decrease in interest rate spreads, adverse employment conditions, the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government and other significant external events. Because we originate a significant number of mortgage loans secured by residential real estate, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for such loans. At June 30, 2009, loans secured by real estate represented 96.3% of our total loans, substantially all of which are secured by properties located in Windham County. Adverse changes in the economy also may have a negative effect on the ability of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. As of June 30, 2009, the unemployment rate in Windham County, Connecticut was 9.0%, and the New London County unemployment rate was 7.60% compared to the national unemployment rate of 9.50% and the unemployment rate for Connecticut as a whole of 8.00%. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we review our loans and our loss and delinquency experience, and we evaluate economic conditions. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio, resulting in additions to our allowance. Our allowance for loan losses was 0.82% of total loans and 34.11% of nonperforming loans at June 30, 2009. Material additions to our allowance would materially decrease our net income. 32 In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Future Changes in Interest Rates May Reduce our Profits. Our ability to make a profit largely depends on our net interest income, which could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates. Net interest income is the difference between: ● the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities; and ● the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. The rates we earn on our assets and the rates we pay on our liabilities are generally fixed for a contractual period of time. Like many savings institutions, our liabilities generally have shorter contractual maturities than our assets. This imbalance can create significant earnings volatility, because market interest rates change over time. In a period of rising interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may not increase as rapidly as the interest paid on our liabilities. In a period of declining interest rates, the interest income earned on our assets may decrease more rapidly than the interest paid on our liabilities, as borrowers speed up prepayments of mortgage loans, and mortgage-backed securities and callable investment securities are called, requiring us to reinvest those cash flows at lower interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Management of Market Risk.” In addition, changes in interest rates can affect the average life of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities. A reduction in interest rates results in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-backed and related securities, as borrowers refinance their debt in order to reduce their borrowing costs. This creates reinvestment risk, which is the risk that we may not be able to reinvest prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates we earned on the prepaid loans or securities. At June 30, 2009, our “rate shock” analysis prepared by a third-party consultant indicates that our net portfolio value would decrease by $7.3 million if there was an instantaneous 200 basis point increase in market interest rates. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Management of Market Risk.” Lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions may decrease our level of deposits. Deposits at Putnam Bank are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation up to certain levels. However, our level of deposits may be affected by a recent lack of consumer confidence in financial institutions, which has caused depositors at financial institutions to withdraw deposits in excess of the applicable insurance levels. Such depositors may determine to place their excess funds in other institutions or to invest uninsured funds in investments perceived as being more secure, such as securities issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. These consumer preferences may require us to pay higher interest rates to retain deposits and may constrain liquidity as we seek to meet funding needs caused by reduced deposit levels. A Legislative Proposal Has Been Introduced That Would Eliminate our Primary Federal Regulator, Require Putnam Bank to Convert to a National Bank or State Bank, and Require Putnam Bancorp, MHC and PSB Holdings, Inc. to Become Bank Holding Companies. The U.S. Treasury Department recently released a legislative proposal that would implement sweeping changes to the current bank regulatory structure. The proposal would create a new federal banking regulator, the National Bank Supervisor, and merge our current primary federal regulator, the Office of Thrift Supervision, as well as the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the primary federal regulator for national banks) into this new federal bank regulator. The proposal would also eliminate federal savings banks and require all federal savings banks, such as Putnam Bank, to elect, within six months of the effective date of the legislation, to convert to either a national bank, state bank or state savings association. A federal savings bank that does not make the election would, by operation of law, be converted into a national bank within one year of the effect date of the legislation. 33 If Putnam Bank is required to convert to a national bank, Putnam Bancorp, MHC and PSB Holdings, Inc. would become bank holding companies subject to supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the “Federal Reserve”) as opposed to the Office of Thrift Supervision. The Federal Reserve has historically looked to Office of Thrift Supervision regulations in its regulation of mutual holding companies and processing of mutual holding company applications; however, it is not obligated to follow such regulations. One important Office of Thrift Supervision regulation that the Federal Reserve does not follow relates to the ability of mutual holding companies to waive the receipt of dividends declared on the common stock of their stock holding company or savings bank subsidiaries. While Office of Thrift Supervision regulations permit mutual holding companies to waive the receipt dividends, subject to filing a notice with the Office of Thrift Supervision and receiving its non-objection, the Federal Reserve’s current policy is to prohibit mutual holding companies from waiving the receipt of dividends so long as the subsidiary savings bank is well capitalized. Moreover, Office of Thrift Supervision regulations provide that it will not take into account the amount of waived dividends in determining an appropriate exchange ratio for minority shares in the event of the conversion of a mutual holding company to stock form. If the Office of Thrift Supervision is eliminated, the Federal Reserve becomes the exclusive regulator of mutual holding companies, and the Federal Reserve retains its current policy regarding dividend waivers by mutual holding companies, Putnam Bancorp, MHC would not be permitted to waive the receipt of dividends declared by PSB Holdings, Inc. This would have an adverse impact on our ability to pay dividends and, consequently, the value of our common stock. Stockholders Other than Our Mutual Holding Company Own a Minority of PSB Holdings, Inc.’s Common Stock and Are Not Be Able to Exercise Voting Control Over Most Matters Put to a Vote of Stockholders. Public stockholders own a minority of the outstanding shares of PSB Holdings, Inc. common stock. As a result, stockholders other than Putnam Bancorp, MHC are not able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. Putnam Bancorp, MHC owns a majority of PSB Holdings, Inc.’s common stock and, through its Board of Directors, is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. The same directors and officers who manage PSB Holdings, Inc. and Putnam Bank also manage Putnam Bancorp, MHC. Putnam Bancorp, MHC may exercise its voting control to prevent a sale or merger transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium for their shares. Our Stock Value May be Negatively Affected by Federal Regulations Restricting Takeovers and our Mutual Holding Company Structure. Federal Regulations Restricting Takeovers. Current OTS policy prohibits the acquisition of a mutual holding company subsidiary by any person or entity other than a mutual holding company or a mutual institution. The Mutual Holding Company Structure May Impede Takeovers. Putnam Bancorp, MHC, as the majority stockholder of PSB Holdings, Inc., is able to control the outcome of virtually all matters presented to stockholders for their approval, including a proposal to acquire PSB Holdings, Inc. Accordingly, Putnam Bancorp, MHC may prevent the sale of control or merger of PSB Holdings, Inc. or its subsidiaries even if such a transaction were favored by a majority of the public stockholders of PSB Holdings, Inc. The Corporate Governance Provisions in our Charter and Bylaws May Prevent or Impede the Holders of a Minority of our Common Stock from Obtaining Representation on our Board of Directors. Provisions in our charter and bylaws may prevent or impede holders of a minority of our common stock from obtaining representation on our board of directors. For example, our board of directors is divided into three staggered classes. A classified board makes it more difficult for stockholders to change a majority of the directors because it generally takes at least two annual elections of directors for this to occur. Second, our charter provides that there will not be cumulative voting by stockholders for the election of our directors which means that Putnam Bancorp, MHC, as the holder of a majority of the shares eligible to be voted at a meeting of stockholders, may elect all of our directors to be elected at that meeting. Third, our bylaws contain procedures and timetables for a stockholder wanting to make a nomination for the election of directors or a proposal for new business at a meeting of stockholders, the effect of which may be to give our management time to solicit its own proxies in an attempt to defeat any dissident slate of nominations if management thinks it is in the best interest of stockholders generally. Office of Thrift Supervision Policy on Remutualization Transactions Could Prohibit Acquisition of PSB Holdings, Inc., which May Lower our Stock Price. Current Office of Thrift Supervision regulations permit a mutual holding company to be acquired by a mutual institution in a remutualization transaction. However, the Office of Thrift Supervision has issued a policy statement indicating that it views remutualization transactions as raising significant issues concerning disparate treatment of minority stockholders and the mutual interests of the mutual holding company and as raising issues concerning the effect on the mutual interests of the acquiring entity. Under certain circumstances the Office of Thrift Supervision intends to give these issues special scrutiny and reject applications providing for the remutualization of a mutual holding company unless the applicant can clearly demonstrate that the Office of Thrift Supervision’s concerns are not warranted in the particular case. Should the Office of Thrift Supervision prohibit or otherwise restrict these transactions in the future, our per-share stock price may be adversely affected. 34 ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 