Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves risks. We describe below the material risks and uncertainties that affect our business and an investment in our common stock. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us and our business. If any of these risks were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment. 11 Table of Contents Risks Associated with our Pending Merger with Prosperity Bancshares, Inc. Failure to complete the pending merger with Prosperity Bancshares, Inc. could materially and adversely affect our stock price and our results of operations. On November 16, 2005, we entered into a definitive merger agreement with Prosperity Bancshares, Inc. whereby we would merge with and into Prosperity. Completion of the merger is subject to certain conditions, including approval by our holders of common stock and Class B stock, voting as separate classes, regulatory approvals, and various other closing conditions. We cannot assure you that these conditions will be met or waived, that the necessary approvals will be obtained or that we will be able to successfully consummate the merger as currently contemplated under the merger agreement or at all. If the merger is not completed: • the market price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price includes a market assumption that the merger will be completed; • we will remain liable for significant transaction costs, including legal, accounting, financial advisory and other costs related to the merger, and may not receive any termination fee from Prosperity; • the inability to retain employees in the interim period may be significant and we may find it difficult to continue as a stand-alone entity; and • we may experience a negative reaction to the termination of the merger from our customers, employees or affiliates which may adversely impact our future results of operations as a stand-alone entity. The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price. In addition, if the merger agreement is terminated and our board of directors seeks another merger or business combination, we may not be able to find a party willing to pay a price equal to or more attractive than the price Prosperity has agreed to pay. Fluctuations in market prices of Prosperity common stock will affect the value that our shareholders receive for their shares of our common stock and Class B stock. Upon completion of the merger, shares of our common stock and Class B stock (other than any dissenting shares) will be converted into shares of Prosperity common stock and cash. While the merger consideration has been generally structured to provide that our shareholders will receive, for each of their shares of common stock and Class B stock, 0.3577 shares of Prosperity common stock and $7.50 in cash, in the event the average share price of Prosperity common stock during the 20 consecutive trading days ending on and including the fifth trading day prior to the closing date of the merger falls below $26.73, Prosperity has the discretion, but not the obligation, to increase either the exchange ratio with respect to the number of shares of Prosperity common stock that our shareholders will receive, the per share cash consideration or a combination of both, such that the total merger consideration will not be less than $221,802,928. In the event Prosperity elects to adjust the merger consideration, our shareholders will receive (i) a number of shares of Prosperity common stock greater than 0.3577, (ii) per share cash consideration more than $7.50 or (iii) a combination of an increase in the number of shares of Prosperity common stock and an increase in cash. Because the price of Prosperity common stock will fluctuate prior to the merger, Prosperity cannot assure our shareholders of the market value or number of the shares of Prosperity common stock or of the amount of cash that they will receive in the merger. The price of Prosperity common stock may vary from its price on the date of the proxy statement/prospectus sent to our shareholders, the date of our special meeting of shareholders and the date for determining the average trading price discussed below. Stock price fluctuations may result from a variety of factors, some of which are beyond the control of Prosperity, including, among other things, changes in Prosperity’s businesses, operations and prospects, regulatory considerations and general market and economic conditions. Because the date the merger is to be completed will be later than the date of the special meeting, the price of the Prosperity common stock on the date of the special meeting may not be indicative of its price on the date the merger is to be completed. If the price of Prosperity common stock falls and the decrease exceeds certain pre-agreed levels, and if Prosperity does not elect to alter the exchange ratio to provide more shares and/or alter the amount of the per share cash consideration to provide more cash, we have the right to terminate the merger agreement and the merger will not occur. The number of shares of Prosperity common stock that our shareholders will receive in the merger may increase from the date of merger agreement until completion of the merger. More specifically, if the average sales price for Prosperity common stock during the 20 consecutive trading days ending on and including the fifth trading day prior to the closing date of the merger is less than $26.73 per 12 Table of Contents share, the exchange ratio, the per share cash consideration or a combination of both may be increased at the option of Prosperity. If Prosperity elects not to increase the exchange ratio and/or the per share cash consideration, we may terminate the merger agreement. As a result, even if the merger is approved by our shareholders, the merger may ultimately not be completed. Although the Prosperity board of directors has the ability to increase the merger consideration and our board of directors has the power to terminate the merger agreement and abandon the merger if the second condition listed above occurs, there is no obligation of either board to exercise such power. Prosperity may have difficulty combining our operations with its own operations or realizing the anticipated benefits of the merger. Because the markets and industries in which we and Prosperity operate are highly competitive, and due to the inherent uncertainties associated with the integration of acquired companies, Prosperity may not be able to integrate our operations without encountering difficulties, including, without limitation, the loss of key employees and customers, the disruption of their respective ongoing businesses and possible inconsistencies in standards, controls and procedures. We expect the merger to result in certain benefits for the combined company, such as cost savings and other financial and operational benefits. We cannot assure you, however, when, if ever, or to the extent to which the combined company will be able to realize these benefits. Difficulties associated with integrating the two companies could have a material adverse effect on the combined company and the market price of the Prosperity common stock. Risks Associated with Our Business A large percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate, and an adverse change in the real estate market may result in losses and adversely affect our profitability. Approximately 85.8% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. An adverse change in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary market specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. In the event of a default with respect to any of these loans, amounts received upon disposal of the collateral may be insufficient to recover outstanding principal and interest on the loan. As a result, our profitability and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Our business is subject to interest rate risk and fluctuations in interest rates may adversely affect our financial performance. The majority of our assets are monetary in nature and subject to risk from changes in interest rates. Like most financial institutions, our earnings are significantly dependent on our net interest income, which is the difference between interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience “gaps” in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets, or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this “gap” will work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. We are unable to predict or control fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors, including the following: • inflation; • recession; • changes in unemployment; • the money supply; and • international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. As of December 31, 2005, we were liability sensitive, so in the event of a sharp increase in interest rates, our net interest income will be affected negatively. Although our asset-liability management strategy is designed to control our risk from changes in market interest rates, it may not be able to prevent changes in interest rates from having a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Our profitability depends significantly on economic conditions in our primary market. Our profitability depends on the general economic conditions in our primary market. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Fort Bend County and Harris County, Texas. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on our business and industrial, real estate, construction and consumer loans, the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans and the value of the collateral securing these loans. A significant decline in general economic conditions, caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, an outbreak of hostilities or other international or domestic calamities, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could impact these local economic conditions and could negatively affect the financial results of our banking operations. Our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our financial performance. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of these loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to assure repayment. We may experience significant loan losses which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of the borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets serving as collateral for the repayment of many of our loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an attempt to cover any loan losses that may occur. In determining the size of the allowance, we rely on an analysis of our loan portfolio, our experience and our evaluation of general economic conditions. While we are not aware of any facts or circumstances that would cause us to believe that our allowance is currently inadequate, if our assumptions prove to be incorrect, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover future loan losses and adjustments may be necessary to allow for different economic conditions or adverse developments in our loan portfolio. Material additions to the allowance would materially decrease net income. In addition, federal regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. We may not be able to maintain our historical growth rate, which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. To achieve our past levels of growth, we have initiated internal growth programs centered on developing new customer accounts at our three locations. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow at all. In addition, we may not be able to obtain any financing necessary to fund additional growth. Various factors, such as economic conditions and competition, may impede or prohibit our growth plans. We may not be able to find suitable candidates for acquisition. Further, any inability to attract and retain experienced bankers may adversely affect our internal growth. A significant decrease in our historical rate of growth may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Associated with Our Stock Holders of our Class B stock have significant control over our company. We have two classes of voting stock — common stock and Class B stock — and the holders of Class B have, and are expected to maintain, the right to elect 60% of the members of our board of directors. Consequently, the holders of Class B stock control a majority of our board of directors. In addition, certain significant corporate actions, such as a merger with another institution, require the approval of both classes of stock, each voting separately as a class, which means that the holders of Class B stock could prohibit a transaction favored by the holders of common stock As of February 28, 2006, we had 9,786,878 shares of common stock issued and outstanding and as of February 28, 2006, we had 2,648,975 shares of Class B stock issued and outstanding, 2,547,764 or 96.18% of which are beneficially owned by certain members of our Board of Directors and management. Except with respect to the election of directors, the rights of the holders of common stock and Class B stock are substantially the same. With respect to the election of directors, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that the holders of Class B stock are entitled to elect a specific percentage of our directors, depending on the number of shares of Class B stock then outstanding. Remaining directors are elected by the holders of our common stock. As long as at least 250,000 shares of Class B stock are outstanding, the holders of Class B stock are entitled to elect 60% of the directors. This percentage is reduced as the number of outstanding shares of Class B stock decreases below 250,000 shares. As of February 28, 2006, because our executive officers, 14 Table of Contents directors and principal shareholders beneficially own 2,547,764 shares of Class B stock, these persons can elect a majority of the members of our board of directors regardless of the number of shares of common stock issued and outstanding or sold in this offering. Further, our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that certain transactions such as a merger, consolidation and a sale of substantially all of our assets must be approved by the holders of at least a majority of each class of our capital stock, voting as separate classes, which means that the holders of a majority of the shares of Class B stock could prohibit a transaction favored by the holders of our common stock. Each share of Class B stock is convertible at any time, at the election of the holder, into one share of our common stock. No additional shares of Class B stock may be authorized, issued, sold or transferred by us without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least a majority of the issued and outstanding common stock and Class B stock, voting as separate classes. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of larger financial services companies. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the National Market System of the Nasdaq Stock Market, the trading volume in our common stock has been limited and is less than that of larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market place of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the limited trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. We currently do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock or Class B stock. In addition, our future ability to pay dividends is subject to restrictions. We have not paid any dividends to our holders of common stock and Class B stock in the past and we currently do not intend to pay any dividends on either class of stock in the foreseeable future. In the event that we decide to pay dividends, there are a number of restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. The policy provides that bank holding companies should not maintain a level of cash dividends that undermines the bank holding company’s ability to serve as a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2005, we have issued and outstanding an aggregate of $30.9 million in junior subordinated debentures to our three wholly-owned subsidiary trusts. We pay interest on the debentures, which is used by the trusts to pay distributions on the trust preferred securities issued by them. The indenture governing the issue of each of these debentures provides that in the event we fail to make an interest payment on the debentures, we are prohibited from paying dividends on our common stock until all debenture interest payments are current. Accordingly, if we are unable to pay interest on these debentures, we will be unable to pay dividends on our common stock. Further, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made to the holders of our common stock. Our principal source of funds to pay dividends on our common stock will be cash dividends that we receive from the Bank. The payment of dividends by the Bank to us is subject to certain restrictions imposed by federal banking laws, regulations and authorities. The federal banking statutes prohibit federally insured banks from making any capital distributions (including a dividend payment) if, after making the distribution, the institution would be “under-capitalized” as defined by statute. In addition, the relevant federal regulatory agencies have authority to prohibit an insured bank from engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice, as determined by the agency, in conducting an activity. The payment of dividends could be deemed to constitute such an unsafe or unsound practice, depending on the financial condition of the Bank. Regulatory authorities could impose administratively stricter limitations on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us if such limits were deemed appropriate to preserve certain capital adequacy requirements. As of December 31, 2005, an aggregate of approximately $4.8 million was available for payment of dividends by the Bank to us under applicable restrictions, without regulatory approval. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 15 Table of Contents 