D. Risk Factors The operations of the Company are speculative due to the high risk nature of its business which involves the exploration of mining properties. Kimber is subject to a number of significant risks due to the nature of its business and the present stage of its business development. The following factors should be considered: INDUSTRY RISKS Resource exploration and development is a high risk, speculative business Resource exploration and development is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks, including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but also from finding mineral deposits, which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable ore deposits and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery or ore reserves will in fact be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Mineral exploration is subject to governmental regulations and may become subject to additional governmental regulations in the future. If Kimber is unable to comply with these new regulations, its operations may be adversely affected. Mineral exploration on Kimber’s properties are affected to varying degrees by: (i) government regulations relating to such matters as environmental protection, health, safety and labour; (ii) mining law reform; (iii) restrictions on production, price controls, and tax increases; (iv) maintenance of claims; (v) tenure; and (vi) expropriation of property. Any mineral exploration activities conducted by Kimber, including commencement of production, require permits from governmental authorities and such operations are and will be governed by laws and regulations governing prospecting, mining, production, exports, taxes, labour standards, occupation health, waste disposal, toxic substances, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and other matters. Companies engaged in the operation of mines and related facilities generally experience increased costs, and delays in production and other schedules as a result of the need to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permits. All permits required for the conduct of mining operations, including the construction of mining facilities, may not be obtainable by Kimber on reasonable terms which would have an adverse effect on any mining project it might undertake. Additionally, failure to comply with applicable laws, regulations and permitting requirements may result in enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions. Parties engaged in mining operations may be required to compensa te those suffering loss or damage by reason of the mining activities and may have civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed for violations of applicable laws or regulations. 17 Amendments to current governmental laws and regulations affecting mining companies, or the more stringent application thereof, could adversely affect Kimber’s operations including the potential to curtail or cease exploration programs or to preclude entirely the economic viability of a mineral property. The extent of any future changes to governmental laws and regulations cannot be predicted or quantified, but it should be assumed that such laws and regulations will become more stringent in the future. Generally, new laws and regulations will result in increased compliance costs, including costs for obtaining permits, delays or fines resulting from loss of permits or failure to comply with the new requirements. The Company has not completed an MIA, nor has it received the necessary permits for water or explosives to conduct mining operations. The Company’s current principle property is located in Mexico. The department responsible for environmental protection in Mexico is SEMARNAT, which is similar to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and Canada’s Environmental Assessment Agency, has broad authority to shut down and/or levy fines against facilities that do not comply with environmental regulations or standards. Regulations require that an environmental impact statement, known in Mexico as a Manifiesto de Impacto Ambiental (“MIA”), be prepared by a third-party contractor for submittal to SEMARNAT. An MIA is required prior to mine construction. Studies required to support the MIA include a detailed analysis of the following areas: soil, water, vegetation, wildlife, cultural resources and socio-economic impacts. The regulatory process in Mexico does not have a public review component but proof of local community support for a project is required to gain final MIA approval. A risk analysis must also be prepared in conjunction with the MIA for approval by SEMARNAT. To date this risk analysis has not been prepared A number of other approvals, licenses and permits are required for various aspects of a mine development. The most significant permits for the development of the Monterde Property, other than MIA approval, are water rights concessions, or permits to extract water, issued by the National Water Commission, and a permit for consumption, use and storage of explosives, or blasting permit, issued by the Mexican National Defence Secretariat. Failure to obtain the necessary permits would adversely affect progress of its operations. As of the date of this Form 20-F Annual Report, the Company has not obtained the explosives permit required for full-scale mining from the Mexican National Defence Secretariat and may not receive the permit in the future. The Company has applied for and has received a limited permit allowing small-scale blasting for operations such as road construction. As of the date of this Form 20-F Annual Report, the Company has not obtained water rights concessions from the National Water Commission, the regulatory body of the Government of Mexico that issues permits for water extraction and may not receive the permit in the future. Mineral exploration is subject to numerous industry operating hazards and risks, many of which are beyond Kimber’s control and any one may have an adverse effect on its financial condition and operations. 18 Mineral exploration involves many risks, including the inability of Kimber to locate commercially productive mineral reserves. The operations in which Kimber has a direct or indirect interest will be subject to all the hazards and risks normally incidental to resource companies, any of which could result in work stoppages and damage to persons or property or the environment and possible legal liability for any and all damage. Fires, power outages, labour disruptions, flooding, explosions, cave-ins, land slides and the inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labour are some of the industry operating risks involved in the operation of mines and the conduct of exploration programs. Other risks include injury or loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property, clean-up responsibilities, regulatory investigation and penalties and suspension of operations. Th e occurrence of any of these operating risks and hazards may have an adverse effect on Kimber’s financial condition and operations. Kimber will, when appropriate, secure liability insurance in an amount which it considers adequate, however the nature of claims may exceed policy limits, the liability and hazards might not be insurable. Kimber might elect not to insure itself against such liabilities due to high premium costs or other reasons, in which event Kimber could incur significant costs that may have a material adverse effect upon its financial condition and operations. The economics of developing gold, silver and other mineral properties is affected by many factors including the cost of operations, variations in the grade of ore mined, fluctuations in metal markets, costs of processing equipment and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. The Company does not have producing mines at this time. Properties on which mineral reserves are not found will have to be discarded causing the Company to write each respective property off thus sustaining a loss. Metal prices have fluctuated widely in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future which may adversely affect the amount of revenues derived from production of mineral reserves. Kimber does not hold any known mineral reserves of any kind. Future revenues, if any, are expected to be in large part derived from the future mining and sale of gold and silver or interests related thereto. The prices of these commodities fluctuate and are affected by numerous factors beyond Kimber’s control including international economic and political conditions, expectations of inflation or deflation, international currency exchange rates, interest rates, global or regional consumptive patterns, speculative activities, levels of supply and demand, increased production due to new mine developments, decreased production due to mine closures, and improved mining and production methods, availability and costs of metal substitutes, metal stock levels maintained by producers and others and inventory carrying costs. The effect of these factors on the price of base and precious metals, and therefo re the economic viability of Kimber’s operations, cannot be accurately predicted. Depending on the price to be received for any minerals produced, Kimber may determine that it is impractical to commence or continue commercial production. The commercial feasibility of the Company’s properties and its ability to arrange funding to conduct its planned exploration projects is dependent on the price of gold and silver. The price of gold and silver may also have a significant influence on the market price of the Company’s common shares and the value of the Company’s properties. A reduction in the price of gold or silver may prevent the Company’s properties from being economically mined or result in the write-off of assets whose value is impaired as a result of low precious metals prices. 19 The price of gold and silver are affected by numerous factors beyond the Company’s control, such as the level of inflation, fluctuation of the United States dollar and foreign currencies, global and regional demand, sales by central banks and the political and economic conditions of major precious metals producing countries throughout the world. The Company faces substantial competition within the mining industry from other mineral companies with much greater financial and technical resources and may not be able to effectively compete which would have an adverse effect on Kimber’s financial condition and operations. The resource industry is intensively competitive in all of its phases, and Kimber competes with many companies possessing much greater financial and technical research resources. Competition is particularly intense with respect to the acquisition of desirable undeveloped gold and silver properties. The principal competitive factors in the acquisition of such undeveloped properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, investigate and purchase such properties, and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop such properties. Competition could adversely affect Kimber’s ability to acquire suitable prospects for exploration in the future. COMPANY RISKS Kimber’s exploration and development efforts may be unsuccessful in locating viable mineral resources. Resource exploration and development is a speculative business, characterized by a number of significant risks, including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting not only from the failure to discover mineral deposits but also from finding mineral deposits, which, though present, are insufficient in quantity and quality to return a profit from production. There is no certainty that the expenditures to be made by the Company on the exploration of its properties as described herein will result in discoveries of mineralized material in commercial quantities. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable ore deposits and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery or ore reserves will in fact be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. The Company’s future must be considered in light of the difficulties frequently encountered by companies in mineral exploration. Kimber has a limited history as an exploration company. The Company does not hold any mineral reserves and does not generate any revenues from production. Kimber’s success will depend largely upon its ability to locate and develop commercially productive mineral reserves, which may never happen. As a result of these factors, it is difficult to evaluate Kimber’s prospects, and its future success is more uncertain than if it had a longer or more proven history. The Company may not be able to market the minerals acquired or discovered due to factors beyond the control of the Company. The marketability of minerals acquired or discovered by the Company may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond the control of the Company and which cannot be accurately predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection, the combination of which factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on investment capital. 20 Kimber expects to continue to incur losses and may never achieve profitability, which in turn may harm the future operating performance and may cause the market price of Kimber’s Common Shares to decline. Kimber has incurred net losses every year since inception on March 31, 1995 and as of June 30, 2006, had an accumulated deficit of $6,725,909. Kimber incurred a net loss of $2,363,420 for the year ended June 30, 2006 and $1,825,982 for the year ended June 30, 2005 (2004: $1,513,811; 2003: $513,627; 2002: $125,308). Kimber anticipates significant expenditures for its mineral exploration programs, which are expensed under U.S. GAAP, and for the further acquisition of mineral property interests. Since most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially productive mineral reserves and are ultimately expensed in full, Kimber expects to report net losses for at least the foreseeable future. The long-term profitability of Kimber’s operations will be in part directly related to the success of its exploration programs, which are affected by numerous factors including the cost of such programs, the amount of mineral reserves discovered and fluctuations in the price of any minerals produced. If Kimber does not become profitable within the time frame expected by its investors, which may never happen, the market price of Kimber’s stock may decline. If Kimber does achieve profitability, it may not be able to sustain or increase profitability in the future. Kimber does not hold any known mineral reserves of any kind and may never be able to locate commercially productive mineral reserves. In the event such reserves are discovered, commercial production may not be possible or warranted. All of Kimber’s mineral properties are in the exploration stage and are without known mineral reserves. Kimber may discover mineral reserves through its exploration programs but commercial production may not be warranted due to any one or more possible reasons. Further development of any of Kimber’s properties will only follow upon obtaining satisfactory exploration results and adequate financing. Few mineral properties that are explored are ultimately developed into producing mines. In the event a commercially productive mineral reserve is discovered, substantial expenditures are required to establish mineral reserves through drilling, to develop metallurgical processes for extraction and to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at the production site. The marketability of any minerals discovered may be affected by numerous factors which are beyond Kimber’s control and which cannot be predicted, such as market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of milling facilities, mineral markets and processing equipment, and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals, and environmental protection. Depending on the price of minerals produced, Kimber may determine that it is impractical to commence or continue commercial production. Kimber’s title to its mineral properties and its validity may be disputed in the future by others claiming title to all or part of such properties. Kimber owns the mining concessions, which constitute its property holdings. However, the concessions may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers, which may affect the validity of Kimber’s ownership of such concessions. See Table 2 under “Item 4D - Property, Plants and Equipment”. 21 Kimber is not aware of challenges to the location or area of its mining concessions. Additionally, Kimber makes a search of mining records in accordance with mining industry practices to confirm that it has acquired satisfactory title to its mining concessions but does not obtain title insurance with respect to such concessions. The possibility exists that title to one or more of its properties, particularly title to undeveloped concessions, might be defective because of errors or omissions in the chain of title, including defects in conveyances and defects in locating or maintaining such concessions. Should any defect in title be discovered by or disclosed to Kimber, all reasonable steps would be taken to perfect title to the particular concessions in question. Kimber is not aware of any material defect in the title to its mineral concessions. A claim on any of Kimber’s mineral properties, especially where commercially productive mineral reserves have been located, could adversely affect Kimber’s long-term profitability as it may preclude entirely the economic development of a mineral property. Also, such a claim may potentially affect Kimber’s current operations due to the high costs of defending against such claims and its impact on senior management's time. The Company’s properties are located in Mexico and are subject to changes in political conditions and regulations in that country. If Kimber is not able to comply with all Mexican laws and regulations, this could negatively impact current or planned exploration and development activities. The Property, the Company’s principal project, is located in Mexico. Mexico has in the past been subject to political instability, changes and uncertainties, which, if they were to arise again, could cause changes to existing governmental regulations affecting mineral exploration and mining activities. The Company’s operations and properties are subject to a variety of governmental regulations including, among others: regulations promulgated by SEMARNAT, Mexico’s environmental protection agency; the Mexican Mining Law; and the regulations of the Comisión National del Aqua with respect to water rights. Mexican regulators have broad authority to shut down and/or levy fines against facilities that do not comply with regulations or standards. The Company’s mineral exploration and mining activities in Mexico may be adversely affected in varying degrees b y changing government regulations relating to the mining industry or shifts in political conditions that increase the costs related to the Company activities or maintaining its properties. Kimber's exploration and development activities are subject to extensive laws and regulations governing health and worker safety, employment standards, waste disposal, protection of historic and archaeological sites, mine development and protection of endangered and protected species and other matters. A number of other approvals, licenses and permits are required for various aspects of mine development. Obtaining and maintaining the necessary permits are critical to the Kimber's business and it is uncertain if all necessary permits will be obtained on acceptable terms or in a timely manner. Future changes in applicable laws and regulations or changes in their enforcement or regulatory interpretation could negatively impact current or planned exploration and development activities or in any other projects that Kimber becomes involved. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or failure t o obtain or maintain permits, even if inadvertent, could result in the interruption of exploration and development operations or material fines, penalties or other liabilities. Operations could also be affected to varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, environmental legislation and mine safety, to the extent that such regulations may be imposed. Mexico’s status as a developing country may make it more difficult for the Company to obtain any required financing for its projects. 22 Conflicts of interest may arise among Kimber’s board members which may cause Kimber to enter into transactions on terms which place Kimber in a worse position than if no such conflicts existed. Certain of Kimber's directors are also directors, officers or shareholders of other companies that are engaged in the business of acquiring, developing and exploring mineral resource properties. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. Such conflicts pose the risk that Kimber may miss certain opportunities in the event that another company of which a director is associated may obtain prior knowledge which the director could not share with Kimber because of his fiduciary duty to that other company and Kimber may be in a worse position than if no conflict existed. Further, in the event of a conflict of interest, contracts may not be negotiated at arms length where negotiations take place with a company where a Kimber director is serving as a director of the other company. The directors and officers of Kimber are aware of the existence of laws governing accounta bility of directors and officers for corporate opportunity and requiring disclosures by directors of conflicts of interest and Kimber will rely upon such laws in respect of any directors' and officers' conflicts of interest or in respect of any breaches of duty by any of its directors or officers. The existence of a conflict of interest, even when disclosed and the appropriate action is taken, could place Kimber at a disadvantage. Kimber depends on key personnel for critical management decisions and industry contacts but does not maintain key person insurance. Kimber is dependent on a relatively small number of key personnel, the loss of any of whom could have an adverse effect on the operations of Kimber. The names of its key personnel are Robert V. Longe, Michael E. Hoole, J. Byron Richards, Darren E. C. Klinck and Gordon Cummings, all of whom are officers of Kimber. Kimber’s success is dependent to a great degree on its ability to attract and retain highly qualified management personnel. The loss of such key personnel, through incapacity or otherwise, would require Kimber to seek and retain other qualified personnel and could compromise the pace and success of its exploration activities. Kimber does not maintain key person insurance in the event of a loss of any such key personnel. Also, certain management personnel of Kimber are officers and/or directors of other publicly traded companies. Additionally, Kimber has relied on and is expected to continue relying upon consultants, contractors and others for exploration expertise. In the event a body of ore is discovered on any of Kimber’s properties, it will likely require the expertise of such consultants and others for the development and operations of a producing mine. Kimber will need to raise additional capital though the sale of its securities, resulting in dilution to the existing shareholders, and which may not be available, adversely affecting its operations. Kimber does not generate any revenues from production and does not have sufficient financial resources to undertake by itself all of its planned exploration programs. Kimber has limited financial resources and has financed its operations primarily through the sale of Kimber’s securities such as Common Shares. Kimber will need to continue its reliance on the sale of its securities for future financing, resulting in dilution to existing shareholders. The amount of additional funds required will depend largely on the success of Kimber’s exploration programs. Based on current plans, it is expected that Kimber’s cash balance of approximately $13,529,338 as at September 12, 2006 will be sufficient to meet operating requirements until approximately the first quarter of 2007. 23 The current 2006 exploration program is expected to be ongoing. The budget for the 2007 exploration program has not been approved as of the date of this annual report. Further exploration programs will depend on Kimber’s ability to obtain additional financing which may not be available under favourable terms, if at all. If adequate financing is not available, Kimber may not be able to commence or continue with its exploration programs. Future issuance of Kimber’s Common Shares will result in dilution to the existing shareholders. Additionally, future sales of Kimber’s Common Shares into the public market may lower the market price, which may result in losses to Kimber’s shareholders. As of June 30, 2006 Kimber had 47,114,922 Common Shares issued and outstanding. In addition, 4,969,466 Common Shares were issuable upon exercise of outstanding stock options and share purchase warrants, all of which may be exercised in the future resulting in dilution to Kimber’s shareholders. Of these amounts, officers and directors of Kimber own, as a group, 7,337,079 Common Shares (15.6%) and stock options to acquire an additional 1,798,700 Common Shares. Kimber’s management presently does not hold any share purchase warrants. Kimber may issue stock options to purchase an additional 767,613 Common Shares remaining under its existing stock option plan. Most of these Common Shares, including the Common Shares to be issued upon exercise of the outstanding options and warrants, are freely tradable. Sales of substantial amounts of Kimber’s Common Shares into the public market, or even the perception by the market that such sales may occur, may lower the market price of its Common Shares. Kimber has no history of paying dividends, does not expect to pay dividends in the immediate future and may never pay dividends. Since incorporation, Kimber has not paid any cash or other dividends on its Common Shares and does not expect to pay such dividends in the foreseeable future, as all available funds will be invested primarily to finance its mineral exploration programs. Kimber will need to achieve profitability prior to any dividends being declared, which may never happen. Mexico is a developing country and obtaining financing or finding or hiring qualified people or obtaining all necessary services for the Company’s operations in Mexico may be difficult. The Company’s principal project is in Mexico which is a developing country and it may be difficult for the Company to obtain necessary financing for its planned exploration or development activities in Mexico. The Company also plans to hire some of its employees or consultants in Mexico to assist the Company in conducting its operations in accordance with local laws in Mexico. The Company also plans to purchase certain supplies and retain the services of various companies in Mexico to meet its future business plans. It may be difficult to find or hire qualified people in the mining industry who are situated in Mexico or to obtain all of the necessary services or expertise in Mexico or to conduct operations on its projects at reasonable rates. If qualified people and services or expertise cannot be obtained in Mexico, the Company may need to seek and obtain those services from people located outside of Mexico which will require work permits and compliance with applicable laws and could result in delays and higher costs to the Company to conduct its operations in Mexico. The Company’s business involves uninsurable risks and the Company does not have insurance for these risks. 24 In the course of exploration, development and production of mineral properties, certain risks, and in particular, unexpected or unusual geological operating conditions including rock bursts, cave-ins, fires, flooding and earthquakes may occur. It is not always possible to fully insure against such risks. The Company does not currently have insurance against all such risks and may decide not to take out insurance against all such risks as a result of high premiums or other reasons. Should such liabilities arise, they could reduce or eliminate any future profitability and result in increasing costs and a decline in the value of the securities of the Company. Kimber’s activities are subject to environmental liability, which would have an adverse effect on its financial condition and operations. Kimber is not aware of any claims for damages related to any impact that its operations have had on the environment but it may become subject to such claims in the future. An environmental claim could adversely affect Kimber’s business due to the high costs of defending against such claims and its impact on senior management's time. Kimber conducts exploration activities in Mexico. Such activities are subject to various laws, rules and regulations governing the protection of the environment, including, in some cases, posting of reclamation bonds. All phases of Kimber’s operations are subject to environmental regulation in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner requiring stricter standards and enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more stringent environmental assessments of proposed properties and a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors, employees and contractors. Kimber has adopted and is committed to an environmental policy designed to ensure compliance with all environmental regulations currently applicable, but environmental hazards may exist on Kimber’s mineral properties that are not known to Kimber at present, caused by previous or existing owners or operators. Also, environmental regulations may change in the future which could adversely affect Kimber’s operations including the potential to curtail or cease exploration programs or to preclude entirely the economic development of a mineral property. The extent of any future changes to environmental regulations cannot be predicted or quantified, but it should be assumed that such regulations would become more stringent in the future. Generally, new regulations will result in increased compliance costs, including costs for obtaining permits, delays or fines resulting from loss of permits or failure to comply with the new regulations. ADDITIONAL RISKS U.S. investors may not be able to enforce their civil liabilities against Kimber or its directors and officers. It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against Kimber which is incorporated in the Province of British Columbia, Canada. With the exception of one director who is a resident of the U.S., the officers and directors of Kimber are residents of British Columbia having all or a substantial portion of their assets located outside of the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for U.S. shareholders of Kimber to effect service of process on these persons within the U.S. or to enforce judgements obtained in the U.S. based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against Kimber or its officers and directors. In addition, U.S. shareholders of Kimber should not assume that the courts of Canada (i) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against Kimber, its officers or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securiti es laws or other laws of the U.S., or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against Kimber, its officers or directors predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the U.S. 25 The Company could be deemed a Passive Foreign Investment Company which could have negative consequences for U.S. investors. Potential investors who are U.S. taxpayers should be aware that Kimber may be a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for the current fiscal year, and may also have been a PFIC in prior years and may also be a PFIC in subsequent years. If Kimber is a PFIC for any year during a U.S. taxpayer’s holding period, then such U.S. taxpayer generally will be required to treat any so-called “excess distribution” received on its common shares, or any gain realized upon a disposition of common shares, as ordinary income and to pay an interest charge on a portion of such distribution or gain, unless the taxpayer makes a valid qualified electing fund (“QEF”) election or a mark-to-market election with respect to the shares of Kimber. In certain circumstances, the sum of the tax and the interest charge may exceed the amount of the excess distribution received, or the amount of proceeds of dis position realized, by the taxpayer. A U.S. taxpayer who makes a QEF election generally must report on a current basis its share of Kimber’s net capital gain and ordinary earnings for any year in which Kimber is a PFIC, whether or not Kimber distributes any amounts to its shareholders. A QEF election will only be effective if Kimber provides certain information to the U.S. holders. There can be no assurances Kimber can, or will comply with these requirements. A U.S. taxpayer who makes the mark-to-market election generally must include as ordinary income each year the excess of the fair market value of the common shares over the taxpayer’s tax basis therein. See Item 10 E – Additional Information - Taxation 