Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following material risks before you decide to buy our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition would likely suffer. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Global Economic Conditions Risk Factor The recent worldwide financial and credit crisis could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession and have a material adverse effect on our financial results and financial condition. During recent months, there has been substantial volatility and losses in worldwide equity markets that could lead to an extended worldwide economic recession. In addition, due to the substantial uncertainty in the global economies, there has been deterioration in the credit and capital markets and access to financing is uncertain. These conditions could have an adverse effect on our industry and our business and future operating results. Our customers may curtail their capital and operating expenditure programs, which could result in a decrease in demand for our vessels and a reduction in rates and/or utilization. In addition, certain of our customers could experience an inability to pay suppliers, including us, in the event they are unable to access the capital markets to fund their business operations. Likewise, our suppliers may be unable to sustain their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations, each of which could adversely affect our operations. Risks Associated with our Business Our business is dependent upon key personnel whose loss may adversely impact our business. We depend on the expertise, experience and continued services of Lower Lakes’ senior management employees, especially Scott Bravener, its President. Bravener has acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to Lower Lakes and its operations and most decisions concerning the business of Lower Lakes will be made or significantly influenced by him. Although Lower Lakes maintains life insurance with respect to Bravener, the proceeds of such insurance may not be adequate to compensate Lower Lakes in the event of Bravener’s death. The loss of Bravener or other senior management employees, or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals, could materially adversely affect our business. We seek to compensate and incentivize executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries and bonus plans, but there can be no assurance that these programs will allow us to retain key employees or hire new key employees. As a result, if Bravener were to leave Lower Lakes, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring a qualified successor and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successor obtains the necessary training and experience. Our officers and directors may allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. Our officers and directors are not required to commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and other businesses. Laurence S. Levy and Edward Levy are each engaged in several other business endeavors and are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. Some of our officers and directors may have conflicts of interest in business opportunities. Some of our officers and directors may become aware of business opportunities which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as the other entities with which they are or may be affiliated. Due to our officers’ and directors’ existing affiliations with other entities, they may have fiduciary obligations to present potential business opportunities to those entities in addition to presenting them to us which could cause additional conflicts of interest. Accordingly, they may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity should be presented. 3 Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain Lower Lakes’ vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel and may also increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain Lower Lakes’ vessels tend to increase with the age of each vessel. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of Lower Lakes’ older vessels will increase. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require Lower Lakes to make additional expenditures. For example, if the U.S. Coast Guard, Transport Canada or the American Bureau of Shipping (an independent classification society that inspects the hull and machinery of commercial ships to assess compliance with minimum criteria as set by U.S., Canadian and international regulations) enact new standards, Lower Lakes may be required to incur significant costs for alterations to its fleet or the addition of new equipment. In order to satisfy any such requirement, Lower Lakes may be required to take its vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable Lower Lakes to operate its older vessels profitably during the remainder of their anticipated economic lives. If Lower Lakes is unable to fund its capital expenditures, drydock costs and winter work expenses, Lower Lakes may not be able to continue to operate some of its vessels, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. In order to fund Lower Lakes’ capital expenditures, drydock costs and winter work expenses, we may be required to incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond its control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures and winter work expenses would limit its ability to continue to operate some of its vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The climate in the Great Lakes region limits Lower Lakes’ vessel operations to approximately nine months per year. Lower Lakes’ operating business is seasonal, meaning that it experiences higher levels of activity in some periods of the year than in others. Ordinarily, Lower Lakes is able to operate its vessels on the Great Lakes for approximately nine months per year beginning in late March or April and continuing through December or mid-January. However, weather conditions and customer demand cause increases and decreases in the number of days Lower Lakes actually operates. The shipping industry has inherent operational risks that may not be adequately covered by Lower Lakes’ insurance. Lower Lakes maintains insurance on its fleet for risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators, including hull and machinery insurance, war risks insurance and protection and indemnity insurance (which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance). We can give no assurance that Lower Lakes will be adequately insured against all risks or that its insurers will pay a particular claim. Even if its insurance coverage is adequate to cover its losses, Lower Lakes may not be able to timely obtain a replacement vessel in the event of a loss. Furthermore, in the future, Lower Lakes may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for Lower Lakes’ fleet. Lower Lakes may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on its own claim record but also the claims record of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which Lower Lakes may receive indemnity insurance coverage. Lower Lakes’ insurance policies will also contain deductibles, limitations and exclusions which, although we believe are standard in the shipping industry, may nevertheless increase its costs. Lower Lakes is subject to certain credit risks with respect to its counterparties on contracts and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses on such contracts decreasing revenues and earnings. Lower Lakes enters into Contracts of Affreightment (COAs) pursuant to which Lower Lakes agrees to carry cargoes, typically for industrial customers, who export or import dry bulk cargoes. Lower Lakes also enters into spot market voyage contracts, where Lower Lakes is paid a rate per ton to carry a specified cargo from point A to point B. All of these contracts subject Lower Lakes to counterparty credit risk. As a result, we are subject to credit risks at various levels, including with charterers, cargo interests, or terminal customers. If the counterparties fail to meet their obligations, Lower Lakes could suffer losses on such contracts which would decrease our revenues and earnings. 4 Lower Lakes may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet its debt service obligations. Lower Lakes’ ability to make payments on its indebtedness will depend on its ability to generate cash from its future operations. Lower Lakes’ business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or from other sources sufficient to enable it to repay its indebtedness and to fund its other liquidity needs, including capital expenditures and winter work expenses. The indebtedness of Lower Lakes under its new senior credit facility bears interest at floating rates, and therefore, if interest rates increase, Lower Lakes’ debt service requirements will increase. Lower Lakes may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of its indebtedness on or before maturity. Lower Lakes may not be able to refinance any of its indebtedness, including the new senior credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If Lower Lakes cannot service or refinance its indebtedness, it may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Additionally, Lower Lakes may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. A default under Lower Lakes’ indebtedness may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In the event of a default under Lower Lakes’ indebtedness, including the indebtedness under its existing senior credit facility, the holders of the indebtedness generally would be able to declare all of such indebtedness, together with accrued interest, to be due and payable. In addition, borrowings under the existing senior credit facility are secured by a first priority lien on all of the assets of Lower Lakes, Lower Lakes Transportation and Grand River and, in the event of a default under that facility, the lenders generally would be entitled to seize the collateral. In addition, default under one debt instrument could in turn permit lenders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those other instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross default clauses. Moreover, upon the occurrence of an event of default under the existing senior credit facility, the commitment of the lenders to make any further loans to us would be terminated. Accordingly, the occurrence of a default under any debt instrument, unless cured or waived, would likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Servicing debt could limit funds available for other purposes, such as the payment of dividends. Lower Lakes will use cash to pay the principal and interest on its debt, and to fund capital expenditures, drydock costs and winter work expenses. These payments limit funds that would otherwise be available for other purposes, including distributions of cash to our stockholders. Lower Lakes’ loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that will limit its liquidity and corporate activities. Lower Lakes’ loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions that limit Lower Lakes’ ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create additional liens on its assets; · make investments; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · pay dividends; and · sell any of Lower Lakes’ vessels or any other assets outside the ordinary course of business. Therefore, Lower Lakes will need to seek permission from its lender in order for Lower Lakes to engage in some corporate actions. Lower Lakes’ lender’s interests may be different from those of Lower Lakes, and no assurance can be given that Lower Lakes will be able to obtain its lender’s permission when needed. This may prevent Lower Lakes from taking actions that are in its best interest. Because Lower Lakes generates approximately 60% of its revenues and incurs approximately 60% of its expenses in Canadian dollars, exchange rate fluctuations could cause us to suffer exchange rate losses thereby increasing expenses and reducing income. Lower Lakes generates a portion of its revenues in Canadian dollars. Similarly, Lower Lakes incurs a portion of its expenses in Canadian dollars. This could lead to fluctuations in our net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the Canadian Dollar. 5 Lower Lakes depends upon unionized labor for its U.S. operations. Any work stoppages or labor disturbances could disrupt its business. Substantially all of Grand River’s employees are unionized with the International Organization of Masters, Mates and Pilots, AFL-CIO. Any work stoppages or other labor disturbances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A labor union has attempted to unionize Lower Lakes’ Canadian employees. The Seafarers International Union of Canada, or SIU, has attempted without success to organize Lower Lakes’ unlicensed employees periodically over the past several years. Although we believe that support for this union is low, if SIU is successful in organizing a union among Lower Lakes’ Canadian employees, it could result in increased labor costs or reduced productivity for Lower Lakes, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Lower Lakes’ employees are covered by U.S. Federal laws that may subject it to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. All of Lower Lakes’ U.S. seagoing employees are covered by provisions of the Shipping Act, 1916, and the Merchant Marine Act, 1920, commonly referred to as the Jones Act, and general maritime law. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in Federal courts. Because Lower Lakes is not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes, Lower Lakes has greater exposure for claims made by these employees as compared to employers whose employees are not covered by these provisions. Restriction on foreign ownership and possible required divestiture of stock. Under U.S. maritime laws, in order for us to maintain our eligibility to own and operate vessels in the U.S. domestic trade, 75% of our outstanding capital stock and voting power is required to be held by U.S. citizens. Although our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions limiting non-citizenship ownership of our capital stock, we could lose its ability to conduct operations in the U.S. domestic trade if such provisions prove unsuccessful in maintaining the required level of citizen ownership. Such loss would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If our board of directors determines that persons who are not citizens of the U.S. own more than 23% of our outstanding capital stock or more than 23% of our voting power, we may redeem such stock or, if redemption is not permitted by applicable law or if our board of directors, in its discretion, elects not to make such redemption, we may require the non-citizens who most recently acquired shares to divest such excess shares to persons who are U.S. citizens in such manner as our board of directors directs. The required redemption would be at a price equal to the average closing price during the preceding 30 trading days, which price could be materially different from the current price of the common stock or the price at which the non-citizen acquired the common stock. If a non-citizen purchases the common stock, there can be no assurance that he will not be required to divest the shares and such divestiture could result in a material loss. Such restrictions and redemption rights may make Rand’s equity securities less attractive to potential investors, which may result in Rand’s publicly traded common stock having a lower market price than it might have in the absence of such restrictions and redemption rights. Our outstanding warrants may have an adverse effect on the market price of common stock and make it more difficult to obtain future public financing. We currently have outstanding an option to purchase 300,000 shares of common stock and warrants to purchase an additional 600,000 shares of common stock which expires if unexercised on October 12, 2009. The sale, or even the possibility of sale, of the shares underlying the warrants and options could have an adverse effect on the market price for our securities or on our ability to obtain future public financing. If and to the extent this warrant and option are exercised, you may experience dilution to your holdings. 6 The conversion of our series A convertible preferred stock will result in significant and immediate dilution of our existing stockholders and the book value of their common stock. The shares of series A convertible preferred stock issued in connection with the acquisition of Lower Lakes are convertible into 2,419,355 shares of our common stock, which, on an “as converted” basis, represents approximately 16% of our aggregate outstanding common stock. The conversion price of our series A convertible preferred stock is subject to weighted average anti-dilution provisions whereby, if Rand issues shares in the future for consideration below the existing conversion price of $6.20, then the conversion price of the series A convertible preferred stock would automatically be decreased, allowing the holders of the series A convertible preferred stock to receive additional shares of common stock upon conversion. Upon any conversion of the series A convertible preferred stock, the equity interests of our existing common stockholders, as a percentage of the total number of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and the net book value of the shares of our common stock will be significantly diluted. If our founding officers and directors exercise their registration rights, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Our founding officers and directors and their affiliates and associates to whom shares of our common stock were issued prior to our initial public offering are entitled to demand that we register the resale of their shares of common stock at any time after October 27, 2007, although they have not yet done so. If our founders exercise their registration rights with respect to all of their shares of common stock, then there will be an additional 1,000,000 shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market. The presence of this additional number of shares of common stock eligible for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Future acquisitions of vessels or businesses by Rand or Lower Lakes would subject Rand and Lower Lakes to additional business, operating and industry risks, the impact of which cannot presently be evaluated, and could adversely impact Rand’s or Lower Lakes’ capital structure. Rand intends to pursue other acquisition opportunities in an effort to diversify its investments and/or grow Lower Lakes’ business. While neither Rand nor Lower Lakes is presently committed to any additional acquisition, Rand is currently actively pursuing one or more potential acquisition opportunities. Acquisitions may be of individual or groups of vessels or of businesses operating in the shipping or other industries. Following the acquisition of Lower Lakes, Rand will not be limited to any particular industry or type of business that it may acquire. Accordingly, there is no current basis for you to evaluate the possible merits or risks of the particular business or assets that Rand may acquire, or of the industry in which such business operates. To the extent Rand acquires a financially unstable business, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the acquired business’s operations. If Rand acquires a business in an industry characterized by a high level of risk, we may be affected by the currently unascertainable risks of that industry. Although Rand’s management will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular industry or target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. In addition, the financing of any acquisition completed by Rand could adversely impact Rand’s capital structure as any such financing would likely include the issuance of additional equity securities and/or the borrowing of additional funds. The issuance of additional equity securities may significantly reduce the equity interest of existing stockholders and/or adversely affect prevailing market prices for Rand’s common stock. Increasing Rand’s indebtedness could increase the risk of a default that would entitle the holder to declare all of such indebtedness due and payable and/or to seize any collateral securing the indebtedness. In addition, default under one debt instrument could in turn permit lenders under other debt instruments to declare borrowings outstanding under those other instruments to be due and payable pursuant to cross default clauses. Accordingly, the financing of future acquisitions could adversely impact our capital structure and your equity interest in Rand. Except as required by law or the rules of any securities exchange on which our securities might be listed at the time we seek to consummate an acquisition, you will not be asked to vote on any proposed acquisition and you will not be entitled to exercise conversion rights in connection with any such acquisition. Risks Associated with the Shipping Industry The cyclical nature of the Great Lakes dry bulk shipping industry may lead to decreases in shipping rates, which may reduce Lower Lakes’ revenue and earnings. The shipping business, including the dry cargo market, has been cyclical in varying degrees, experiencing fluctuations in charter rates, profitability and, consequently, vessel values. Rand anticipates that the future demand for Lower Lakes’ dry bulk carriers and dry bulk charter rates will be dependent upon continued demand for imported commodities, economic growth in the United States and Canada, seasonal and regional changes in demand, and changes to the capacity of the Great Lakes fleet which cannot be predicted. Adverse economic, political, social or other developments could decrease demand and growth in the shipping industry and thereby reduce revenue and earnings. Fluctuations, and the demand for vessels, in general, have been influenced by, among other factors: 7 · global and regional economic conditions; · developments in international and Great Lakes trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, such as port congestion and canal closures; · weather and crop yields; · political developments; and · embargoes and strikes. The market values of Lower Lakes’ vessels may decrease, which could cause Lower Lakes to breach covenants in its credit facility and which could reduce earnings and revenues as a result of potential foreclosures. Vessel values are influenced by several factors, including: · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful life of vessels; · changes in Great Lakes dry bulk commodity supply and demand; · types and sizes of vessels; · development of and increase in use of other modes of transportation; · governmental or other regulations; and · prevailing level of charter rates. If the market values of Lower Lakes’ owned vessels decrease, Lower Lakes may breach some of the covenants contained in its credit facility. If Lower Lakes does breach such covenants and Lower Lakes is unable to remedy the relevant breach, its lenders could accelerate its debt and foreclose on the collateral, including Lower Lakes’ vessels. Any loss of vessels would significantly decrease the ability of Rand to generate revenue and income. In addition, if the book value of a vessel is impaired due to unfavorable market conditions, or a vessel is sold at a price below its book value, Rand would incur a loss that would reduce earnings. A failure to pass inspection by classification societies and regulators could result in one or more vessels being unemployable unless and until they pass inspection, resulting in a loss of revenues from such vessels for that period and a corresponding decrease in earnings, which may be material. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry, as well as being subject to inspection by shipping regulatory bodies such as Transport Canada. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the United Nations Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Lower Lakes’ owned fleet is currently enrolled with the American Bureau of Shipping. A vessel must undergo Annual Surveys, Intermediate Surveys, and Special Surveys by its classification society, as well as periodic inspections by shipping regulators. As regards classification surveys, in lieu of a Special Survey, a vessel’s machinery may be on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Lower Lakes’ vessels are on Special Survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be drydocked every four to five years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. 8 Due to the age of several of the vessels, the repairs and remediations required in connection with such classification society surveys and other inspections may be extensive and require significant expenditures. Additionally, until such time as certain repairs and remediations required in connection with such surveys and inspections are completed (or if any vessel fails such a survey or inspection), the vessel may be unable to trade between ports and, therefore, would be unemployable. Any such loss of the use of a vessel could have an adverse impact on Rand’s revenues, results of operations and liquidity, and any such impact may be material. Lower Lakes’ business would be adversely affected if Lower Lakes failed to comply with U.S. maritime laws or the Coasting Trade Act (Canada) provisions on coastwise trade, or if those provisions were modified or repealed. Rand is subject to the Shipping Act, 1916, and the Merchant Marine Act, 1920, commonly referred to as the Jones Act, and other U.S. laws and the Coasting Trade Act (Canada) that restrict domestic maritime transportation to vessels operating under the flag of the subject state. In the case of the United States, in addition, the vessels must have been built in the United States, be at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens and manned by U.S. crews. Compliance with the foregoing legislation increases the operating costs of the vessels. With respect to its U.S. flagged vessels, Rand will be responsible for monitoring the ownership of its capital stock to ensure compliance with U.S. maritime laws. If Rand does not comply with these restrictions, Rand will be prohibited from operating its vessels in U.S. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances Rand will be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for its vessels, and fines or forfeiture of the vessels. Over the past decade, interest groups have lobbied Congress to modify or repeal U.S. maritime laws so as to facilitate foreign flag competition. Foreign vessels generally have lower construction costs and generally operate at significantly lower costs than vessels in the U.S. markets, which would likely result in reduced charter rates. Rand believes that continued efforts will be made to modify or repeal these laws. If these efforts are successful, it could result in significantly increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to maintain or replace our vessels as they age. As of March 31, 2009, the average age of the vessels operated by Lower Lakes was approximately 51 years. The expense of maintaining, repairing and upgrading Lower Lakes’ vessels typically increases with age, and after a period of time the cost necessary to satisfy required marine certification standards may not be economically justifiable. There can be no assurance that Lower Lakes will be able to maintain its fleet by extending the economic life of existing vessels, or that our financial resources will be sufficient to enable us to make expenditures necessary for these purposes. In addition, the supply of replacement vessels is very limited and the costs associated with acquiring a newly constructed vessel are prohibitively high. In the event that Lower Lakes were to lose the use of any its vessels, our financial performance would be adversely affected. Lower Lakes is subject to environmental laws that could require significant expenditures both to maintain compliance with such laws and to pay for any uninsured environmental liabilities resulting from a spill or other environmental disaster. The shipping business and vessel operation are materially affected by government regulation in the form of international conventions, United States and Canadian treaties, national, state, provincial, and local laws, and regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which vessels operate. Because such conventions, treaties, laws and regulations are often revised, Rand cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance or its impact on the resale price or useful life of Lower Lakes’ vessels. Additional conventions, treaties, laws and regulations may be adopted which could limit Rand’s ability to do business or increase the cost of its doing business, which may materially adversely affect its operations, as well as the shipping industry generally. Lower Lakes is required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, and certificates with respect to its operations and any increased cost in connection with obtaining such permits, licenses and certificates, or the imposition on Lower Lakes of the obligation to obtain additional permits, licenses and certificates, could adversely affect Rand’s results of operations. Canada has adopted a regime of strict liability for oil pollution damage caused by ships (Part 6 of the Marine Liability Act). In case of non-tanker vessels, such as Lower Lakes’ vessels, a vessel’s registered owner is strictly liable for pollution damage caused on the Canadian territory, in Canadian territorial waters or in Canada’s exclusive economic zone by oil of any kind or in any form including petroleum, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse and oil mixed with wastes, subject to certain defenses. The liability of the shipowner is, however, limited in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on Limitation of Liability for Maritime Claims, 1976, as amended by the Protocol of 1996. Pursuant to this Convention, the shipowner can limit its liability to (i) 1 million Special Drawing Right, or SDR, as defined by the International Monetary Fund for the first 2,000 tons of tonnage, (ii) 400 SDR for each additional ton up to 30,000 tons of tonnage, (iii) 300 SDR for each additional ton up to 70,000 tons of tonnage and (iv) 200 SDR for each additional ton of tonnage. In addition to the Marine Liability Act, Lower Lakes’ vessels are also subject to other Canadian laws and regulations that contain significant fine and penalty provisions relating to the marine environment, pollution and discharges of hazardous substances, including the Migratory Birds Convention Act, the Canadian Environmental Protection Act, 1999, and the Fisheries Act. 9 The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection and cleanup of the environment from oil spills. OPA affects all owners and operators whose vessels trade in United States waters, which includes the Great Lakes and their connecting and tributary waterways. Under OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from vessel discharges of oil of any kind or in any form. Lower Lakes currently maintains pollution liability coverage insurance. However, if the damages from a catastrophic incident exceed this insurance coverage, it could have a significant adverse impact on Rand’s cash flow, profitability and financial position. Lower Lakes is subject to vessel security regulations and will incur costs to comply with recently adopted regulations and may be subject to costs to comply with similar regulations which may be adopted in the future in response to terrorism. Since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security. On November 25, 2002, the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or MTSA, came into effect. To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the U.S. Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Similarly, in December 2002, amendments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, or SOLAS, created a new chapter of the convention dealing specifically with maritime security. The new chapter went into effect in July 2004, and imposes various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities, most of which are contained in the newly created ISPS Code. Among the various requirements are: · on-board installation of automatic information systems, or AIS, to enhance vessel-to-vessel and vessel-to-shore communications; · the development of vessel security plans; and · compliance with flag state security certification requirements. The U.S. Coast Guard regulations are intended to be aligned with these international maritime security standards. Although Rand does not believe these additional requirements will have a material financial impact on Lower Lakes’ operations, Rand cannot assure you that there will be no interruption in operations to bring vessels into compliance with the applicable requirements and any such interruption could cause a decrease in revenues. The operation of Lower Lakes’ vessels is dependent on the price and availability of fuel. Continued periods of historically high fuel costs may materially adversely affect Rand’s operating results. Rand’s operating results may be significantly impacted by changes in the availability or price of fuel for Lower Lakes’ vessels. Fuel prices have increased substantially since 2004. Although price escalation clauses form part of substantially all of Lower Lakes’ contracts of affreightment, which enable Lower Lakes to pass the majority of its increased fuel costs on to its customers, these measures may not be sufficient to enable Lower Lakes to fully recoup increased fuel costs or assure the continued availability of its fuel supplies. Although we are currently able to obtain adequate supplies of fuel, it is impossible to predict the price of fuel. Political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries, changes in government policy, changes in fuel production capacity, environmental concerns and other unpredictable events may result in fuel supply shortages and additional fuel price increases in the future. There can be no assurance that Lower Lakes will be able to fully recover its increased fuel costs by passing these costs on to its customers. In the event that Lower Lakes is unable to do so, Rand’s operating results will be adversely affected. 10 Governments could requisition Lower Lakes’ vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of revenues and earnings from such requisitioned vessels. The United States or Canada could requisition title or seize Lower Lakes’ vessels during a war or national emergency. Requisition of title occurs when a government takes a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition Lower Lakes vessels for hire, which would result in the government’s taking control of a vessel and effectively becoming the charterer at a dictated charter rate. Requisition of one or more of Lower Lakes’ vessels would have a substantial negative effect on Rand, as Rand would potentially lose all or substantially all revenues and earnings from the requisitioned vessels and permanently lose the vessels. Such losses might be partially offset if the requisitioning government compensated Rand for the requisition. The operation of Great Lakes-going vessels entails the possibility of marine disasters including damage or destruction of the vessel due to accident, the loss of a vessel due to piracy or terrorism, damage or destruction of cargo and similar events that may cause a loss of revenue from affected vessels and damage Lower Lakes’ business reputation, which may in turn, lead to loss of business. The operation of Great Lakes-going vessels entails certain inherent risks that may adversely affect Lower Lakes’ business and reputation, including: · damage or destruction of vessel due to marine disaster such as a collision; · the loss of a vessel due to piracy and terrorism; · cargo and property losses or damage as a result of the foregoing or less drastic causes such as human error, mechanical failure and bad weather; · environmental accidents as a result of the foregoing; and · business interruptions and delivery delays caused by mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could substantially increase Lower Lakes’ costs, as for example, the costs of replacing a vessel or cleaning up a spill, or lower its revenues by taking vessels out of operation permanently or for periods of time. The involvement of Lower Lakes’ vessels in a disaster or delays in delivery or damages or loss of cargo may harm its reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator and cause it to lose business. If Lower Lakes’ vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at Lower Lakes’ cost at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. Lower Lakes may have to pay drydocking costs that insurance does not cover. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, could decrease its revenues and earnings substantially, particularly if a number of vessels are damaged or drydocked at the same time. Maritime claimants could arrest Lower Lakes’ vessels, which could interrupt its cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo, and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages against such vessel. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of Lower Lakes’ vessels could interrupt its cash flow and require it to pay large sums of funds to have the arrest lifted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 11 