ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Management and our Relationship with Our Manager and J.E. Robert Company and its Affiliates We are dependent upon our manager and certain key personnel of J.E. Robert Company provided to us through our manager and may not find a suitable replacement if our manager terminates the management agreement or such key personnel are no longer available to us. Neither we nor our manager have any employees. All of our officers are employees of J.E. Robert Company. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on our manager and J.E. Robert Company, which has significant discretion as to the implementation of our operating policies and strategies. Pursuant to a services agreement among us, our manager and J.E. Robert Company, our manager relies on J.E. Robert Company to provide our manager with the personnel, services and resources as needed by our manager to enable it to carry out its obligations and responsibilities under the management agreement. Our manager is not significantly capitalized and does not have its own facilities or employees separate from J.E. Robert Company. Mr. Joseph E. Robert, Jr. is the sole stockholder of J.E. Robert Company as of the date hereof. Mr. Robert beneficially owns 78% of our manager, and as a result, Mr. Robert is in a position to control the policies, decision making and operations of our manager. We are subject to the risk that our manager will terminate the management agreement and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage us. We believe that our success depends to a significant extent upon the experience of certain of J.E. Robert Company’s executive officers, whose continued service is not guaranteed. If our manager terminates the management agreement or key officers leave our manager, we may be unable to execute our business plan. There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with J.E. Robert Company and its affiliates, including with our manager, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. Our chairman and chief executive officer and another member of our board and each of our executive officers also serve as officers of our manager and other J.E. Robert Company affiliates. Our chairman and chief executive officer owns 78% of our manager, Deborah L. Harmon, president and chief investment officer of J.E. Robert Company and a member of our investment committee, owns 20% of our manager and Keith W. Belcher, vice chairman of our board of directors, executive vice president and a member of our investment committee, owns 2% of our manager. J.E. Robert Company and its affiliates currently manage and invest in, and will continue to manage and invest in, other real estate-related investment entities and the personnel provided to us through our manager are not required to devote a specific amount of time to our business. At the time of our formation when our management agreement, incentive plan, conflicts policy and other organizational matters were approved for us, Mr. Robert, the sole stockholder of J.E. Robert Company, was our sole stockholder and our sole director. As a result, these matters were not negotiated at arm’s length, and their terms, including fees payable to our manager, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, we may enter into transactions in the future with J.E. Robert Company and its affiliates that may result in conflicts of interest. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify J.E. Robert Company and our manager and their respective directors and officers with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of their respective duties, performed in good faith in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement and the related services agreement. The base management fee payable to our manager is payable regardless of our performance. We will pay our manager substantial base management fees, based on our equity capital, regardless of the performance of our portfolio. For example, $1.9 million of base management fees were payable to our manager for the period from inception (April 19, 2004) to December 31, 2004 despite the fact that we experienced a net loss of $5.9 million during the same period. 26 Table of Contents The incentive fee may cause our manager to invest in more risky investments to increase Funds From Operations and thereby increase the incentive fee earned by our manager. Our manager is entitled to receive incentive compensation based upon our achievement of targeted levels of Funds From Operations. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on Funds From Operations may lead our manager to place undue emphasis on the maximization of Funds From Operations at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our investment portfolio. The JER Fund III partnership agreement limits our ability to invest in certain real estate structured finance products. Affiliates of J.E. Robert Company, in their capacity as general partner of the JER Funds, are currently in the process of making investments in a wide range of commercial real estate equity and debt assets for JER Fund III, one of the JER Funds. The JER Fund III partnership agreement provides that neither J.E. Robert Company nor any affiliate can close on another pooled investment vehicle with objectives substantially similar to those of JER Fund III, other than certain kinds of funds, including a JER CMBS Fund. The JER Fund III partnership agreement further provides that none of J.E. Robert Company and its affiliates shall make investments outside of JER Fund III that are substantially similar to the type of investments to be made by JER Fund III, except for investments that a JER CMBS Fund is permitted to make under its governing documents. It is J.E. Robert Company’s intention that we qualify as a JER CMBS Fund under the JER Fund III partnership agreement. The JER Fund III partnership agreement defines a “JER CMBS Fund” as a fund organized by J.E. Robert Company or any of its affiliates to “primarily” invest in (a) CMBS and other related loans issued in connection with conduit securitizations and (b) residential mortgages and related securities. The JER Fund III partnership agreement defines “conduit securitizations” as CMBS collateralized primarily by newly originated loans (i) issued for the purposes of securitizations, (ii) with fixed interest rates and maturities of seven to ten years and (iii) with loan to value ratios generally averaging approximately 75% and debt service coverage ratios generally averaging 1.25x based on net cash flow from the underlying real estate, all as reasonably determined by an affiliate of J.E. Robert Company as general partner acting in good faith. The JER Fund III partnership agreement does not define “primarily.” The general partner of JER Fund III has advised us that it interprets “primarily” to mean more than 50%. We contemplate investing in a variety of structured finance products, including CMBS issued in connection with conduit securitizations, mezzanine loans, B-Note participations in mortgage loans, commercial loans, loans to real estate companies, and net leased real estate. We may also invest in residential mortgages and related securities such as residential mortgage backed securities. The ability of our manager to invest in these types of structured finance products on our behalf is limited, but not completely restricted, so long as we meet the definition in the JER Fund III partnership agreement of a JER CMBS Fund, which requires us to invest “primarily” in (a) CMBS and other related loans issued in connection with conduit securitizations and (b) residential mortgages and related securities. The JER Fund III partnership agreement may prevent our manager from pursuing desirable investment opportunities on our behalf and subject us to the risk that we will be limited in our ability to refocus our investment strategy if trends in the availability and performance of residential mortgages and related securities and conduit securitization investments make such a change desirable. While we target primarily conduit commercial mortgage backed securities, mezzanine loans, bridge loans, B-Notes, preferred equity, corporate loans, mortgage loans and net leased real estate and residential mortgages and related securities, JER Fund III generally seeks to invest in direct ownership of real estate, non-conduit commercial mortgage backed securities, equity securities, preferred equity and high yield debt (typically with equity participation). The investments we pursue may overlap with the investment objectives of JER Fund III. To the extent that specific investment opportunities are determined by J.E. Robert Company to be suitable for and advantageous to us and JER Fund III, J.E. Robert Company will allocate the opportunities equally between us and JER Fund III wherever reasonably practicable. Where J.E. Robert Company determines that an equal allocation is not reasonably practicable, it will allocate that investment in a manner that it determines in good 27 Table of Contents faith to be fair and reasonable. J.E. Robert Company will also apply the foregoing allocation procedures between us and any future investment funds, companies or vehicles or other entities that it controls with which we have overlapping investment objectives. J.E. Robert Company may nonetheless allocate investments potentially of value for us to JER Fund III under its conflicts policy. J.E. Robert Company may also alter the policy at any time without notice to or input from us or our stockholders. Through December 31, 2005, we originated, together with JER Fund III, mezzanine loans totaling $63.4 million as part of a program to provide financing for garden apartment condominium conversions in Florida. Because these mezzanine loans were determined to be suitable for both us and JER Fund III, the ownership of these loans has been allocated equally between us and JER Fund III in accordance with the conflicts policy adopted by J.E. Robert Company described above. Consequently, our share of the mezzanine loans is $31.7 million. Termination of our management agreement would be costly. Termination of the management agreement with our manager without cause or non-renewal of the management agreement is costly. We may terminate the management agreement without cause only upon the completion of the initial term of the management agreement, which is June 4, 2006. After that time, the management agreement renews automatically and we must give our manager 180 days prior notice of any termination or non-renewal and pay a termination fee, within 90 days of termination, equal to four times the sum of the base management fee and the incentive fee for the 12-month period preceding the date of termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter prior to the date of termination. We also must pay the termination fee if we fail to renew the agreement upon expiration of the initial term or subsequent terms. In addition, following any termination of the management agreement, we must pay our manager all compensation accruing to the date of the termination. These provisions increase the effective cost to us of terminating or electing not to renew the management agreement, thereby adversely affecting our ability to terminate our manager without cause, even if we believe the manager’s performance is not satisfactory. The conflicts of interest policy developed by J.E. Robert Company and the JER Fund III partnership agreement may limit the type of investments we make and may impact our ability to comply with REIT requirements and restrictions and with the Investment Company Act. We must abide by the terms of the conflicts of interest policy developed by J.E. Robert Company with respect to conflicts of interest with JER Fund III. The conflicts policy may at times prevent us from acquiring 100% of certain attractive investments because the policy requires that investments determined to be appropriate for both us and JER Fund III be allocated equally between us and JER Fund III whenever reasonably practicable. In addition, where J.E. Robert Company determines that it is not reasonably practicable to equally allocate an investment, that investment may be allocated solely to JER Fund III. Because the JER Fund III partnership agreement restricts our manager’s ability to cause us to invest in real estate structured finance products other than (a) CMBS and other related loans issued in connection with conduit securitizations and (b) residential mortgages and related securities, it may be difficult for us to avoid the registration requirements of the Investment Company Act or satisfy the REIT requirements of the tax laws. This requirement may also cause us to forego desirable investment opportunities and subject us to the risk that we may be limited in our ability to refocus our investment strategy if needed. Mr. Joseph E. Robert, Jr. has significant control over our company and will influence decisions regarding our operations and our business. Mr. Joseph Robert, Jr. is our chairman and chief executive officer and the chairman and chief executive officer of our manager. As of the date hereof, Mr. Robert beneficially owns 78% of our manager and approximately 3.8% of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Robert has significant control over us, particularly 28 Table of Contents our management. Mr. Robert may exercise his influence over us according to interests with which you may disagree. Our board of directors has approved very broad investment guidelines for our manager and does not approve each investment decision made by our manager. Our manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines. Our directors will periodically review our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio. However, our board does not review each proposed investment. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, the directors will rely primarily on information provided to them by our manager. Furthermore, transactions entered into by our manager may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the directors. Our manager has great latitude within the broad investment guidelines in determining the types of assets it may decide are proper investments for us. We may change our investment strategy without stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments. We may change our investment strategy at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this report. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to interest rate and real estate market fluctuations. We may change our operational policies without stockholder consent, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our board of directors determines our operational policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our REIT status, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders. Operational policy changes could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Risks Relating to Our Business Strategy We have limited experience operating as a REIT or a public company and may not operate successfully. We were organized in April 2004 and have a limited operating history. We completed our initial public offering in July 2005. Our senior management team has limited experience with the complex rules and regulations governing public companies in general and REITs in particular. Our results of operations depend on many factors, including the performance of our assets, the availability of opportunities for the acquisition of additional assets, the level and volatility of interest rates, readily accessible short and long term financing, conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions, and we may not operate successfully. We expect to incur significant debt to finance our investments, which may subject us to increased risk of loss and reduce cash available for distributions to our stockholders. We intend to leverage our assets through borrowings, generally through the use of bank credit facilities, repurchase agreements and the issuance of CDOs. The percentage of leverage varies depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities and the lender’s estimate of the stability of the portfolio’s cash flow. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. As of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding indebtedness totaling $266.3 million related to the CDO issuance in November 2005. There were no amounts outstanding under our repurchase agreement as of December 31, 2005. Our debt service payments reduce cash available for distribution to stockholders. For the year ended December 31, 2005, $5.9 million of debt service was incurred on the borrowings related to our repurchase 29 Table of Contents agreements and CDO. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations. While we intend to maintain target debt-to-equity ratios of between approximately two-to-one to three-to-one, our governing documents contain no limitation on the amount of debt we may incur, and our board of directors may change our debt policy at any time without stockholder approval. In addition, we may leverage individual assets at substantially higher levels. Incurring debt could subject us to many risks, including the risks that: • our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest, resulting in the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale in order to satisfy our debt obligations; • our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations and capital expenditures, future business opportunities or other purposes; • the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of the debt being refinanced; and • the use of leverage could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. We leverage certain of our investments through repurchase agreements. A decrease in the value of the assets may lead to margin calls that we will have to satisfy. We may not have the funds available to satisfy these margin calls. We may not be able to access financing on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We expect to finance our assets over the long-term through a variety of means, including credit facilities, issuance of CDOs and other structured financings. Our ability to execute this strategy depends on various conditions in the markets that are beyond our control, including liquidity and credit spreads. We cannot assure you that these markets will remain an efficient source of long-term financing for our assets. If our strategy is not viable, we will have to find alternative forms of long-term financing for our assets, as secured revolving credit facilities and repurchase facilities may not accommodate long-term financing. This could subject us to more recourse indebtedness and the risk that debt service on less efficient forms of financing would require a larger portion of our cash flows, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our stockholders, funds available for operations as well as for future business opportunities. Interest rate fluctuations could reduce our ability to generate income on our investments and may cause losses. Our primary interest rate exposures relate to our loans, mortgage backed securities and variable-rate debt, as well as our interest rate swaps that we utilize for hedging purposes. Changes in interest rates will affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning investments and the interest expense we incur in financing these investments. Changes in the level of interest rates also may affect our ability to originate and acquire assets, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the disposition of assets. Changes in interest rates may also affect borrower default rates. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase, while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate debt investments would not change, adversely affecting our profitability. As of December 31, 2005, 84% of our investments on a cost basis had fixed rate terms and 55% of our debt had fixed rate terms. In November 2005, we closed CDO I and issued $418.7 million par value of collateralized debt obligations. In connection with the pricing of CDO I in October 30 Table of Contents 2005, through JER CRE CDO 2005-1, Limited, we entered into an amortizing swap with an initial notional balance of approximately $110 million and a final maturity of June 2015. Under the swap, we agreed to pay the counterparty a fixed interest rate of 4.943% per annum in exchange for floating payments on the applicable notional amount. Prior to CDO I, we had entered into several forward-starting interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of changes in the interest-related cash outflows on the forecasted issuance of the CDO. In connection with the pricing of CDO I in October 2005, we exited these swaps. Our operating results depend in large part on differences between the income from our assets, net of credit losses, and our financing costs. We anticipate that, in most cases, for any period during which our assets are not match-funded, the income from such assets will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence our net income. Increases in these rates will tend to decrease our net income and market value of our assets. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding interest income would result in operating losses for us. At December 31, 2005, the existence of our interest rate swap mitigated an impact of an interest rate increase on our floating rate debt. As a result and due to floating rates on our mezzanine loans, increases in interest rates will increase our net income. The following table shows the estimated change in net income for a 12-month period based on changes in the interest rates applied to our assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2005: Rate Change (Basis Points) Estimated Change in Net Income Over 12 Months (in thousands) -200 $ (1,448) -100 (724) +100 724 +200 1,448 Interest rate changes will also affect the fair value of our CMBS investments, real estate loans and derivatives. If credit spreads widen before we obtain long-term financing for our assets, the value of our assets may suffer. We price our assets based on our assumptions about future levels of credit spreads for longer term fixed rate financing of those assets. We expect to obtain longer term financing for these assets at a spread over a certain benchmark, such as the yield on United States Treasury bonds, swaps, or the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR). If the spread that investors will pay over the benchmark widens and the rates we charge on our loans or the income we generate from our other assets are not increased accordingly, we may experience a material adverse effect on our income and a reduction in the economic value of the assets that we have originated or acquired. We may not be able to acquire eligible securities for future CDO issuances, or may not be able to issue CDO securities on attractive terms that closely match fund the duration of our assets and liabilities, which may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. We intend to finance our real estate securities on a long-term basis, such as through the issuance of CDOs. Prior to the issuance of CDO I in November, we financed our investments with relatively short-term credit facilities. We use these short-term facilities to finance the acquisition of real estate securities until a sufficient quantity of securities is accumulated, at which time we refinanced these facilities through the CDO issuance. We expect to follow a similar process to finance our future growth. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we will 31 Table of Contents not be able to acquire, during the period that our short-term facilities are available, a sufficient amount of eligible securities to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance. We also bear the risk that we will not be able to obtain short-term credit facilities or may not be able to renew any short-term credit facilities after they expire should we find it necessary to extend our short-term credit facilities to allow more time to seek and acquire the necessary eligible securities for a long term financing. Inability to renew our short-term credit facilities may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of a CDO less attractive to us when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral. If we are unable to issue a CDO to finance these assets, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or otherwise to liquidate the assets. The use of CDO financings with over-collateralization requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow. The terms of the CDOs that we have issued and intend to issue in the future generally provide that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related bonds by a certain amount. This excess collateral requirement is commonly referred to as “over-collateralization.” The CDO terms provide that, if certain delinquencies or losses exceed the specified levels based on rating agencies’ (or the financial guaranty insurer’s, if applicable) analyses of the characteristics of the assets pledged to collateralize the bonds, the required level of over-collateralization may be increased or may be prevented from decreasing as would otherwise be permitted if losses or delinquencies did not exceed those levels. Other tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may restrict our ability to receive net income from assets pledged to secure CDOs. We cannot assure you that the performance tests will be satisfied. Nor can we assure you, in advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties on our future CDO financings, of the actual terms of the delinquency tests, over-collateralization terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors regarding the calculation of net income to us. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters may materially and adversely affect our net income. If our assets fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expense associated with our CDO financings will increase. We may be required to repurchase loans that we have sold to indemnify holders of our CDOs. If any of the loans we originate or acquire and sell or securitize do not comply with representations and warranties that we make about certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties, the terms of our CDO I require us, and the terms of any future CDOs will likely require us, to repurchase those loans (including from a trust vehicle used to facilitate a structured financing of the assets through CDOs) or replace them with substitute loans. In addition, in the case of loans that we have sold instead of retained, we may be required to indemnify purchasers for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans typically require a significant allocation of working capital to carry on our books, and our ability to borrow against such assets is limited. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. An increase in prepayment rates could adversely affect yields on our investments. The value of our assets may be affected by prepayment rates on mortgage loans. Prepayment rates on mortgage loans are influenced by changes in interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control, and consequently, prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty. In periods of declining mortgage interest rates, prepayments on mortgage loans generally increase. If general interest rates decline as well, we are likely to reinvest the proceeds of prepayments received during these periods in assets yielding less than the mortgage loans that were prepaid. In addition, the market value of the mortgage loan assets may, because of the risk of prepayment, benefit less than other fixed-income securities from declining interest rates. Conversely, in periods of rising interest rates, prepayments on mortgage loans generally decrease, in which case we would not have the prepayment proceeds available to invest in assets with higher yields. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios, we may fail to recoup fully our cost of certain investments. 32 Table of Contents Our hedging transactions may limit our gains or result in losses. We intend to use derivative instruments, including forwards, futures, swaps and options, in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations. The value of our forwards, futures and swaps may fluctuate over time in response to changing market conditions, and will tend to change inversely with the value of the risk in our liabilities that we intend to hedge. Hedges are sometimes ineffective because the correlation between changes in value of the underlying investment and the derivative instrument is less than was expected when the hedging transaction was undertaken. Since a substantial portion of our hedging activity is intended to cover the period between origination or purchase of loans and obtaining permanent fixed-rate financing for those loans, unmatched losses in our hedging program may occur when the planned securitized financing fails to occur, or if the hedge proves to be ineffective. Losses on hedge positions will reduce cash available for distribution to stockholders and such losses may exceed amounts invested in these instruments. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedging counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits and force us to cover our resale commitments, if any, at the then current market price. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedging positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedging position without the consent of the hedging counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into an offsetting contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We are subject to significant competition and we may not compete successfully. We are subject to significant competition in seeking investments. We compete with several other companies, such as other REITs, insurance companies and other investors, including funds and companies affiliated with J.E. Robert Company. Recently, there has been increased competition in the CMBS market, with many companies seeking to invest in CMBS issuances. Some of our competitors have greater resources than us and we may not be able to compete successfully for investments. Risks Related to Our Investments Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. We own assets secured by real estate and may own real estate directly. Real estate investments will be subject to various risks, including: • acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; 33 Table of Contents • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as indoor mold; and • the potential for uninsured or under insured property losses. If any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The mortgage loans in which we invest and the mortgage loans underlying the mortgage backed securities in which we invest will be subject to delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by multifamily or commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss that are greater than similar risks associated with loans made on the security of single-family residential property. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by the risks particular to real property described above, as well as, among other things: • tenant mix; • success of tenant businesses; • property management decisions; • property location and condition; • competition from comparable types of properties; • changes in specific industry segments; • declines in regional or local real estate values, or rental or occupancy rates; and • increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations and limit amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to that borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process that could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. CMBS evidence interests in, or are secured by, a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, the mortgage backed securities we invest in are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. To date, with respect to the underlying loans with aggregate outstanding loan pool balances of approximately $23.0 billion in the twelve new issue conduit securitization trusts in which we have acquired CMBS, we have been notified of delinquencies on eight underlying mortgage loans. The eight delinquent loans totaled approximately $34.9 million, or 0.2% of the outstanding pool balance. We have also acquired CMBS in two other securitization trusts. Based on the most recent trustee report available (dated February 17, 2006), one of these seasoned securitizations consisted of 275 total underlying loans with an 34 Table of Contents outstanding loan pool balance of approximately $1.9 billion. There were eight delinquent loans totaling approximately $34.2 million, which equaled 1.8% of the outstanding pool balance. Based on the most recent trustee report available (dated February 2, 2006), a second seasoned securitization consisted of 6,648 total underlying loans with an outstanding pool balance of approximately $32.7 billion. There were 135 delinquent loans totaling approximately $569.9 million, which equaled 1.7% of the outstanding pool balance. Our investments in subordinated mortgage backed securities could subject us to increased risk of losses. In general, losses on an asset securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit provided by the borrower, if any, and then by the “first loss” subordinated security holder. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we may not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related mortgage backed securities, the securities in which we invest may effectively become the “first loss” position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments. A projection of or actual economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgages underlying mortgage backed securities to make principal and interest payments or to refinance may be impaired. In this case, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 78% of the cost basis of our portfolio consisted of non-investment grade subordinated mortgage backed securities. Investments in mezzanine loans involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income producing properties. Investments in mezzanine loans take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests in the entity that directly or indirectly owns the property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than a senior mortgage loan because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the property owning entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. As of December 31, 2005, approximately 16% of the cost basis of our portfolio consisted of mezzanine loans. The B-Notes in which we invest may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. A B-Note is a mortgage loan typically (i) secured by a first mortgage on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and (ii) subordinated to an A-Note secured by the same first mortgage on the same collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for B-Note holders after payment to the A-Note holders. B-Notes reflect similar credit risks to comparably rated commercial mortgage backed securities. However, since each transaction is privately negotiated, B-Notes can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of B-Notes to control the process following 35 Table of Contents a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. We cannot predict the terms of each B-Note investment. Further, B-Notes typically are secured by a single property, and so reflect the increased risks associated with a single property compared to a pool of properties. B-Notes also are less liquid than commercial mortgage backed securities, thus we may be unable to dispose of underperforming or non-performing investments. The higher risks associated with our subordinate position in our B-Note investments could subject us to increased risk of losses. In July 2005, the remaining balance of a B-Note investment was repaid in full. As of December 31, 2005, we had no B-Note investments. Bridge loans involve a greater risk of loss than traditional mortgage loans. We may provide bridge loans secured by first lien mortgages on a property to borrowers who are typically seeking short-term capital to be used in an acquisition or renovation of real estate. The borrower has usually identified an undervalued asset that has been under-managed or is located in a recovering market. If the market in which the asset is located fails to recover according to the borrower’s projections, or if the borrower fails to improve the quality of the asset’s management or the value of the asset, the borrower may not receive a sufficient return on the asset to satisfy the bridge loan, and we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, owners usually borrow funds under a conventional mortgage loan to repay a bridge loan. We may therefore be dependent on a borrower’s ability to obtain permanent financing to repay our bridge loan, which could depend on market conditions and other factors. Bridge loans are also subject to risks of borrower defaults, bankruptcies, fraud, losses and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. In the event of any default under bridge loans held by us, we bear the risk of loss of principal and non-payment of interest and fees to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the mortgage collateral and the principal amount of the bridge loan. To the extent we suffer such losses with respect to our investments in bridge loans, the value of our company and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Preferred equity investments involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing. We may make preferred equity investments. Preferred equity investments are subordinate to debt financing and are not secured. Should the issuer default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the entity that issued the preferred equity in accordance with the terms of the preferred security, and not any property owned by the entity. Furthermore, in the event of bankruptcy or foreclosure, we would only be able to recoup our investment after any lenders to the entity are paid. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. Investments in REIT debt securities are subject to specific risks relating to the particular REIT issuer of the securities and to the general risks of investing in subordinated real estate securities, which may result in losses to us. We may invest in REIT debt securities. Investments in REIT debt securities involve special risks relating to the particular REIT issuer of the securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. Investments in REIT debt securities are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments discussed in this report, including the risks described above with respect to mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities and similar risks, including: • risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss in the event thereof; • the dependence upon the successful operation of and net income from real property; • risks generally incident to interests in real property; and • risks specific to the type and use of a particular commercial property. 36 Table of Contents REIT debt securities are generally unsecured and may also be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. We may also invest in REIT debt securities that are rated non-investment grade. As a result, investments in REIT debt securities are also subject to risks of: • limited liquidity in the secondary trading market; • substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates; • subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer; • the operation of mandatory sinking fund or redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest premature redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets; • the possibility that earnings of the REIT security issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service and dividend obligations; and • the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer of REIT securities during periods of rising interest rates and economic downturn. These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding REIT debt securities and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest or make dividend payments, which could reduce our ability to make distribution to our stockholders. Investments in net lease properties may generate losses. We expect to make investments in net leased real estate assets. The value of our investments and the income from our investments in net lease properties will depend upon the ability of the applicable tenant to meet its obligations to maintain the property under the terms of the net lease. If a tenant fails or becomes unable to so maintain a property, we will be subject to all risks associated with owning real estate. In addition, under many net leases the owner of the property retains certain obligations with respect to the property, including among other things, the responsibility for maintenance and repair of the property, to provide adequate parking, maintenance of common areas and compliance with other affirmative covenants in the lease. If we were to fail to meet these obligations, the applicable tenant could abate rent or terminate the applicable lease, which may result in a loss of our capital invested in, and anticipated profits from, the property. In addition, we may find it difficult to lease property to new tenants that may have been suited to the particular needs of a former tenant. We may make investments in non-U.S. dollar denominated securities, which subject us to currency rate exposure and the uncertainty of foreign laws and markets. We may purchase CMBS denominated in foreign currencies. We expect that our exposure, if any, would be principally to the British pound and the euro. A change in foreign currency exchange rates may have an adverse impact on returns on our non-dollar denominated investments. Although we may hedge our foreign currency risk, subject to the REIT income qualification tests, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Investments in foreign countries also subject us to risks of multiple and conflicting tax laws and regulations and political and economic instability abroad, which could adversely affect our receipt of interest income on these investments. Investment in non-conforming and non-investment grade loans may involve increased risk of loss. Except in limited instances, loans we may acquire or originate will not conform to conventional loan standards applied by traditional lenders and will not be rated or will be rated as non-investment grade (for example, for investments rated by Moody’s Investors Service, ratings lower than Baa3, and for Standard & Poor’s, ratings lower than BBB-). The non-investment grade ratings for these loans typically result from the overall leverage of the loans, the lack of a strong operating history for the properties underlying the loans, the borrowers’ credit history, the properties’ underlying cash flow or other factors. As a result, loans we originate or 37 Table of Contents acquire may have a higher risk of default and loss than conventional loans. Any loss we incur may reduce distributions to stockholders and adversely affect the value of our common stock. We currently anticipate investing primarily in unrated or non-investment grade assets. There are no limits on the percentage of unrated or non-investment grade assets we may hold in our portfolio. Credit ratings assigned to our investments are subject to ongoing evaluations and we cannot assure you that the ratings currently assigned to our investments will not be downgraded. Some of our investments are rated by Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings or Standard & Poor’s, Inc. The credit ratings on these investments are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and we cannot assure you that any such rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. If rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating or reduce, or indicate that they may reduce, their ratings of our investments in the future, the value of these investments could significantly decline, which may have an adverse affect on us. Insurance on mortgage loans and real estate securities collateral may not cover all losses. There are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, terrorism or acts of war, that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, including terrorism or acts of war, also might make the insurance proceeds insufficient to repair or replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under these circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected real property. As a result of the events of September 11, 2001, insurance companies are limiting and excluding coverage for acts of terrorism in insurance policies. As a result, we may suffer losses from acts of terrorism that are not covered by insurance. In addition, the mortgage loans that are secured by certain of our properties contain customary covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain property insurance in an amount equal to the replacement cost of the properties. There can be no assurance that the lenders under our mortgage loans will not take the position that exclusions from our coverage for losses due to terrorist acts is a breach of a covenant that, if uncured, could allow the lenders to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of the mortgage loans. Many of our investments are illiquid and we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions. The real estate securities that we purchase in connection with privately negotiated transactions are not registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in accordance with, those laws. A majority of the mortgage backed securities that we purchase are traded in private, unregistered transactions and are therefore subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise have no established trading market. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited. The B-Notes, mezzanine, bridge and mortgage loans we originate or purchase are particularly illiquid investments due to their short life, their potential unsuitability for securitization and the greater difficulty of recovery in the event of a borrower’s default. Lack of diversification in number of investments increases our dependence on individual investments. Our investment policy allows us to invest up to 20% of our equity in any individual investment. As a result, our portfolio may be concentrated in a small number of assets, increasing the risk of loss to us and our stockholders if a default or other problem arises. 38 Table of Contents Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of our properties or the properties underlying our investments. Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. When we acquire net leased properties directly, there may be environmental problems associated with the property of which we were unaware. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner’s ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. To the extent that an owner of a property underlying one of our debt investments becomes liable for removal costs, the ability of the owner to make debt payments to us may be reduced, which in turn may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset held by us and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming our financial condition. In addition, although our leases will generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant’s activities on the property, we nonetheless will be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest for environmental liabilities created by our tenants, and we cannot ensure you that our tenants would satisfy their indemnification obligations under the applicable sales agreement or lease. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our targeted investment properties and the properties underlying our investments are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations, which may require us or them to make unintended expenditures that adversely impact their ability to make interest payments to us and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. Any properties we acquire directly, and the properties underlying our investments, are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. Government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and we expect under our leases will be obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected and we could be required to expend our own funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our targeted investment properties and properties underlying our investments. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Further, required compliance with these rules and regulations by the owners of the properties underlying our investments may reduce their funds available to make interest payments to us. We may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic changes in geographic areas where the properties underlying our investments may be concentrated. Adverse conditions in the areas where the properties underlying our investments are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors) and local real estate conditions (such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, office and industrial properties) may have an 39 Table of Contents adverse effect on the value of our properties. A material decline in the demand or the ability of tenants to pay rent for office and industrial space in these geographic areas may result in a material decline in our cash available for distribution. A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession or declining real estate values could harm our operations. We believe the risks associated with our business will be more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. Declining real estate values will likely reduce our level of new mortgage loan originations, since borrowers often use increases in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase of or investment in additional properties. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans in the event of default. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our portfolio as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Maryland takeover statutes may prevent or make difficult a change of control of our company that could be in the interests of our stockholders. Under Maryland law, “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as: • any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation’s shares; or • an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: • 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single voting group; and • two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of a corporation and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for the common stock of that corporation or otherwise be in the interest of the stockholders of that corporation. We have exempted by charter provision all business combinations from the application of this statute and consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements described above will not apply 40 Table of Contents to any business combination between any other party and us. However, we may, by charter amendment approved by our board of directors and our stockholders, opt into the business combination provisions of Maryland law in the future. We also have opted out of the “control share” provisions of Maryland law that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares that, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. However, we may, by amendment to our by-laws, opt in to the control share provisions of Maryland law in the future without stockholder approval, which could inhibit a third party from making or completing an acquisition of us that is in the interests of our stockholders. Our authorized but unissued common and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board may issue additional common and preferred shares and may establish a series of preferred stock with terms that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. The requirements of the Investment Company Act impose limits on our operations. We conduct our operations so as not to be regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. We rely on the exclusion provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act (and potentially Section 3(c)(6) if, from time to time, we engage in our real estate business through one or more majority-owned subsidiaries). The assets that we acquire, therefore, are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the Investment Company Act. In addition, we may not issue redeemable securities. We are in the process of applying for no-action relief with respect to the characterization of certain of our assets as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the requirements of Section 3(c)(5)(C). We cannot assure you that such no-action relief will be granted or that it will be granted on the terms requested. If we fail to own a sufficient amount of qualifying real estate assets or real estate related assets to satisfy the requirements of Section 3(c)(5)(C) and could not rely on any other exemption or exclusion under the Investment Company Act, we could be characterized as an investment company. The risk that we might be characterized as an investment company subject to registration and regulation under the Investment Company Act is greater to the extent that we invest in pools of CMBS that contain some real estate related notes. The characterization of us as an investment company would require us to either (i) change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (ii) to register as an investment company. We cannot assure you that we would be able to complete any required dispositions or acquisitions of assets, or deleveraging, on favorable terms, or at all. Consequently, any modification of our business plan could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, if we were determined to be an unregistered investment company, we would be subject to monetary penalties and injunctive relief in an action brought by the SEC, we may be unable to enforce contracts with third parties and third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions undertaken during the period it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. Finally, because affiliate transactions are prohibited under the Investment Company Act, failure to maintain our exemption would force us to terminate our management agreement, services agreement and all other agreements with affiliates. Any of these results would be likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial results and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. See “Operating Policies and Strategies—Investment Company Act Considerations” in this report. 41 Table of Contents Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Under Maryland law generally, a director’s actions will be upheld if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter authorizes us to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist. Our by-laws require us to indemnify each director or officer who has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our management. Our charter provides that a director may only be removed with cause upon the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. Vacancies may be filled by the board of directors. This requirement makes it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing directors and may prevent changes in control of our company that are in the interest of our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We operate in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not intend to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) as to our REIT status, we have received the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP with respect to our qualification as a REIT. Investors should be aware, however, that opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or any court. The opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP represents only the view of our counsel based on our counsel’s review and analysis of existing law and on certain representations as to factual matters and covenants made by us and our manager, including representations relating to the values of our assets and the sources of our income. The opinion is expressed as of the date issued and will not cover subsequent periods. Counsel has no obligation to advise us or the holders of our common stock of any subsequent change in the matters stated, represented or assumed, or of any subsequent change in applicable law. Furthermore, both the validity of the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, and our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis, the results of which will not be monitored by Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of an instrument as debt or equity for federal income tax purposes, and the tax treatment of participation interests that we hold in mortgage loans and mezzanine loans, may be uncertain in some 42 Table of Contents circumstances, which could affect the application of the REIT qualification requirements as described below. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or other issuers will not cause a violation of the REIT requirements. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. Unless entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates under recently enacted tax legislation. Legislation enacted in 2003 generally reduces the maximum tax rate for dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates from 38.6% to 15% (through 2008). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding any net capital gain, in order for corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. These distributions generally must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in the following taxable year if declared before we file our tax return for the year and if paid with or before the first regular dividend payment after such declaration. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement of the Internal Revenue Code. Certain of our assets may generate substantial mismatches between taxable income and available cash. As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our net taxable income could cause us to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms or (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt, in order to comply with REIT requirements. The stock ownership limit imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and our charter may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year after our first year. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of the aggregate value of our outstanding capital stock following the completion of this offering. Our board may grant an exemption in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine. The ownership limits imposed by the tax law are based 43 Table of Contents upon direct or indirect ownership by “individuals,” but only during the last half of a tax year. The ownership limits contained in our charter key off of the ownership at any time by any “person,” which term includes entities. These ownership limitations in our charter are common in REIT charters and are intended to provide added assurance of compliance with the tax law requirements, and to minimize administrative burdens. However, these ownership limits might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through taxable subsidiary corporations. Such subsidiaries will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT status. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations. Under current law, any income that we generate from derivatives or other transactions intended to hedge our interest 44 Table of Contents rate or foreign currency risks will generally constitute income that does not qualify for purposes of the 75% income requirement applicable to REITs, and will also be treated as nonqualifying income for purposes of the REIT 95% income test unless specified requirements are met, in which case, such income would be included. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous, which could result in greater risks associated with interest rate or other changes than we would otherwise incur. The “taxable mortgage pool” rules may increase the taxes that we or our stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations. Certain of our future securitizations could be considered to result in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, so long as we own 100% of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool, we would generally not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. Certain categories of stockholders, however, such as foreign stockholders eligible for treaty benefits, stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from us that is attributable to the taxable mortgage pool. In addition, to the extent that our stock is owned by tax-exempt “disqualified organizations,” such as certain government-related entities that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, although Treasury regulations have not yet been drafted to clarify the law, we may incur a corporate level tax on a portion of our income from the taxable mortgage pool. In that case, we may reduce the amount of our distributions to any disqualified organization whose stock ownership gave rise to the tax. Moreover, we would be precluded from selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. These limitations may prevent us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions. The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans, that would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to dispose of or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans at the REIT level, and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions, even though the sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. Risks Related to Trading of our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. On July 13, 2005, we completed an initial public offering of our common stock, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. While there has been active trading in our common stock since the initial public offering, we cannot assure you that an active trading market in our common stock will be sustained. Even if an active trading market for our common stock continues, the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the purchase price you paid to acquire them. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common shares include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; • changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; 45 Table of Contents • increases in market interest rates that lead purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by institutional stockholders; • speculation in the press or investment community; • application and interpretation of the rules and regulations of the Investment Company Act; and • general market and economic conditions. Broad market fluctuations could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries similar or related to ours and that have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performances. These broad market fluctuations could reduce the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, our operating results and prospects may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors or may be lower than those of companies with comparable market capitalizations, which could lead to a material decline in the market price of our common stock. Future offerings of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common stock upon our liquidation, and future offerings of equity securities, which would dilute our existing stockholders and may be senior to our common stock for the purposes of dividend and liquidating distributions, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by making offerings of debt or additional offerings of equity securities. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive a distribution of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Our preferred stock, if issued, could have a preference on liquidating distributions or a preference on dividend payments that could limit our ability to make a dividend distribution to the holders of our common stock. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock (including shares of our common stock issued pursuant to our incentive plan), or the perception that these sales could occur, could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting their stock holdings in us. Future sales of shares of our common stock may depress the price of our shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, of future sales of our common stock or the availability of shares for future sales on the market price of our common stock. Any sales of a substantial number of our shares in the public market, or the perception that sales might occur, may cause the market price of our shares to decline. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to make distributions in the future. We expect to make quarterly distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that we distribute all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk 46 Table of Contents factors described in this report. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We may not be able to make distributions in the future. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. To the extent that we decide to make distributions in excess of taxable income, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of our common stock is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price relative to market interest rates. If the market price of our common stock is based primarily on the earnings and return that we derive from our investments and income with respect to our properties and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the market value or underlying appraised value of the properties or investments themselves, then interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions will likely affect the market price of our common stock. For instance, if market rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of our common stock could decrease as potential investors may require a higher distribution yield on our common stock or seek other securities paying higher distributions or interest. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and pay distributions. 47 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including without limitation, statements relating to the operating performance of our investments and financing needs. Forward-looking statements are generally identifiable by use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “potential,” “intend,” “expect,” “endeavor,” “seek,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “overestimate,” “underestimate,” “believe,” “could,” “project,” “predict,” “continue” or other similar words or expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on certain assumptions, discuss future expectations, describe future plans and strategies, contain projections of results of operations or of financial condition or state other forward-looking information. Our ability to predict results or the actual effect of future plans or strategies is inherently uncertain. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, our actual results and performance could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could have a material adverse effect on our operations and future prospects include, but are not limited to: • changes in economic conditions generally and the real estate and bond markets specifically; • legislative and regulatory changes (including changes to laws governing the taxation of real estate investment trusts); • availability of capital to us; • our ability to obtain future financing arrangements; • changes in interest rates and interest rate spreads; • changes in generally accepted accounting principles; • market trends; • policies and rules applicable to REITs; • application and interpretation of the rules and regulations of the Investment Company Act; and • other factors discussed under the heading “Risk Factors.” When considering forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind the risk factors and other cautionary statements in this report. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any of these forward-looking statements, which reflect our management’s views as of the date of this report. The “Risk Factors” and other factors noted throughout this report could cause our actual results to differ significantly from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. We are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform these statements to actual results. 