Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. We face intense competition based on a number of factors, including price, and we expect competition to increase in the future, which could have an adverse effect on our net revenue, potential net revenue growth rate and market share. The market for motion interface products is highly competitive, particularly in the market for consumer electronics, which is highly sensitive to price. In the market for consumer electronics, we compete to various degrees on the basis of our products’ size, price, integration, performance, product roadmap, and reliability. Competition may increase and intensify if more and larger semiconductor companies, or the internal resources of large, integrated original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, enter our markets. Increased competition could result in price pressure, reduced profitability and loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, net revenue and operating results. Our primary competitor in most of our target markets is STMicroelectronics N.V. We also face competition from integrated semiconductor manufacturers, from in-house development organizations within some of our potential customers and from smaller companies specializing in MEMS and motion-sensing products, including those that provide motion-sensing products offering less functionality at a lower cost, such as accelerometers. We also compete with large, sophisticated platform developers that may prefer to integrate less sophisticated motion sensors and to develop their own motion interface application for developers, marginalizing the total solution we offer. Additionally, competitors that have traditionally focused on industrial or automotive applications for MEMS motion sensors may pursue the consumer electronics market, thus intensifying competition for our products. We expect competition in the markets in which we participate to increase in the future as existing competitors improve or expand their product offerings. Most of our current competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater resources, greater brand recognition and a larger base of customers than we do. Some of our competitors also have in-house vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities. In addition, these competitors may have greater credibility with our existing or prospective customers and in some cases are already providing components for products to such existing and prospective customers that may in the future include MotionTracking devices. Moreover, many of our competitors have been doing business with our customers or potential customers for a long period of time and have established relationships that may provide them with information regarding future market trends and requirements that may not be available to us. Additionally, some of our larger competitors may be able to provide greater incentives to customers through rebates and similar programs. Finally, some of our competitors with multiple product lines may bundle their products to offer customers a broader product portfolio at a more competitive price point. These factors may make it difficult for us to gain or maintain market share. The average selling prices of our products continues to decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our net revenue and gross margins if we cannot reduce our costs. Our primary customers expect the average selling prices of our products to continue to decrease over time as a result of agreements we enter into with our customers from time to time, competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors, product end-of-life programs and for other reasons. We have experienced and may continue to experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results due to the erosion of the average selling prices of our products. If we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by implementing internal cost reduction programs, increasing our sales volumes or introducing new products with higher gross margins, our net revenue and gross margins will decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our intellectual property is integral to our business. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends in part upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. Our ability to use and prevent others from using our patented fabrication platform, which is the subject of several patents and patent applications, is crucial to our success. Effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in some countries. Some of our products and technologies are not covered by any patent or patent application. We cannot guarantee that: • any of our present or future patents or patent claims will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or abandoned; • our intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us; • our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against potential competitors or to settle current or future disputes will not be limited by our agreements with third parties; • any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; • our intellectual property rights will be enforced in jurisdictions where legal protection may be weak; • third parties will not infringe our key intellectual property, and specifically, our patented fabrication platform; • any of the trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights that we presently employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or abandoned; or • we will not lose the ability to assert our intellectual property rights against others. In addition, our competitors or others may design around our protected patents or technologies. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or more limited in one or more relevant jurisdictions relative to the protections available in the United States, or may not be applied for in one or more relevant jurisdictions. If we pursue litigation to assert our intellectual property rights, an adverse judicial decision in any of these legal actions could limit our ability to assert our intellectual property rights, limit the value of our technology or otherwise negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property may have occurred or may occur in the future. Although we have taken steps to try to minimize the risk of this occurring, any such failure to identify unauthorized use and otherwise adequately protect our intellectual property would adversely affect our business. We also rely on customary contractual protections with our customers, suppliers, distributors, employees and consultants, and we implement security measures to protect our trade secrets. We cannot ensure that these contractual protections and security measures will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach or that our suppliers, employees or consultants will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of such contracts. We face claims of intellectual property infringement and may face additional such claims in the future, which could be time-consuming and costly to defend or settle and, if adversely adjudicated, could result in the loss of significant rights. The semiconductor and MEMS industries are characterized by companies that hold large numbers of patents and other intellectual property rights and that vigorously pursue, protect and enforce intellectual property rights. STMicroelectonics, Inc., our most significant competitor, has filed two lawsuits and an action before the United 19 Table of Contents States International Trade Commission asserting that several of our products infringe its patents, which are ongoing. A third party asserted in litigation that our z axis gyroscope infringes a patent held by it. This matter was resolved. Another competitor has made generalized assertions of potential infringement and we have met with it to discuss the matter. In the future other third parties may assert against us and our customers and distributors their patent and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. Claims that our products, processes or technology infringe third-party intellectual property rights, regardless of their merit or resolution, have been, and may continue in the future to be, costly to defend or settle and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. In addition, many of our customer and distributor agreements, including our agreement with our largest customer, require us to indemnify and defend our customers or distributors, as applicable, from third-party infringement claims and pay damages in the case of adverse rulings. Claims of this sort also could harm our relationships with our customers or distributors and might deter future customers from doing business with us. We do not know whether we will prevail in the current proceedings to which we are a party or in any future proceedings given the complex technical issues involved and the inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any such proceedings result in an adverse outcome, we could be required to: • cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products, processes or technology; • pay substantial damages for infringement; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing products, processes or technology; • license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; • cross-license our technology to a competitor to resolve an infringement claim, which could weaken our ability to compete with that competitor; or • pay substantial damages to our customers or end users to discontinue their use of or to replace infringing technology sold to them with non-infringing technology. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on a limited number of third parties to supply, manufacture and assemble our products, and the failure to manage our relationships with our third-party contractors could adversely affect our ability to produce, market and sell our products. We do not have our own manufacturing facilities. We operate based on an outsourced manufacturing business model that utilizes third-party foundry and packaging capabilities. Relying on third-party manufacturing, assembly and packaging presents significant risks to us, including the following: • reduced control over delivery schedules, yields and product reliability; • price increases; • the failure of a key supplier to perform its obligations to us for technical, market or other reasons; • challenges presented by introducing our fabrication processes to new suppliers or deploying them in new foundries; • difficulties in establishing additional manufacturing suppliers if we are presented with the need to transfer our manufacturing process technologies to them; • shortages of materials; • misappropriation of our intellectual property; and • limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us. 20 Table of Contents The performance of our third-party manufacturers is outside of our control. At present, we depend primarily upon Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC) to manufacture most of our products. Although we are not obligated to purchase a specific volume of products from, or to contract with TSMC on an exclusive basis, we anticipate that we will be dependent on TSMC to supply a substantial portion of our products for the next several fiscal quarters. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 we announced qualification of a second high volume foundry, Global Foundries. We expect that it would take approximately nine to 16 months to transition our manufacturing to new third-party manufacturers that have not already begun installing our manufacturing processes. Such a transition would likely require certain customers to qualify our new manufacturers. If one or more of our third-party contractors or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market, the reliability of our products and our reputation could suffer. In the future, if our third-party manufacturers fail to deliver quality products and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders, our net revenue could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, if our foundry partners materially increase their prices for the fabrication of our products, our business would be materially harmed. Our third-party manufacturers may not allocate sufficient capacity for us to have our products produced and shipped to our customers on a timely basis, which may materially adversely affect our growth and our results of operations. We rely on third-party foundries for our CMOS-MEMS wafer fabrication, assembly and packaging services. We make substantially all of our purchases through purchase orders based on our own rolling forecasts, and our third-party manufacturers are not required to supply us products beyond these forecasted quantities. Beyond minimal capacity guarantees, most of our third-party manufacturers do not have any obligations to provide us with additional capacity on a timely basis. We rely on our ecosystem partners to enhance our product offerings and our inability to continue to develop or maintain these relationships in the future would harm our ability to remain competitive. Our strategy is to work closely with third parties, which we refer to as ecosystem partners, including developers of operating systems such as Android, developers of motion sensing applications, and manufacturers of semiconductors with complementary functionality such as micro-controllers, application processors, and other sensors, in order to add features and improve time-to-market for customers, thereby taking advantage of our unique capabilities and encouraging potential customers to adopt our solutions. Continued growth in adoption of motion tracking solutions depends in part on activities of these ecosystem partners supporting the development of systems and applications that can fully utilize the capabilities of our products. If we are not able to maintain and develop our relationships with these third parties our ability to compete could be harmed. To date, a significant amount of our net revenue has been attributable to demand for our products used in handheld devices, including smartphones, tablet devices and video gaming. The markets for these products may decline or remain flat. Even if these markets grow, such growth may not benefit the products that incorporate our products. Any of these potential developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, net revenue and operating results. We derive a significant amount of our net revenue from our products used in handheld devices, including smartphones and tablet devices, and historically we have derived significant revenue from video gaming. Future generations of these products may not adopt motion interface at all or, if they do, may use our competitors’ products, internally developed solutions or alternative technologies not based on MEMS sensors. If we are not successful in obtaining design wins in new generations of these products or, if these products that incorporate our products are not successful, our net revenue and operating results will decline. If we achieve design wins, these markets or the markets for specific products incorporating our solutions may not continue to grow or may decline for a number of reasons outside of our control, including competition among companies and market saturation. 21 Table of Contents Additionally, these markets are subject to volatility from changes in the macroeconomic environment as well as industry specific trends, such as trends resulting from announcements by one of the major companies in these markets. Any decline or volatility in these overall markets could cause our net revenue and operating results to fall short of expectations or decline. We currently depend on a limited number of customers for a material portion of our net revenue, and the loss of, or a substantial reduction in orders from these customers would significantly reduce our net revenue and adversely impact our operating results We expect that sales to these customers will continue to account for a substantial portion of our net revenue for the foreseeable future. The loss of, or a substantial reduction in orders from, any of these customers would have a significant negative impact on our business and our operating results. For fiscal 2013 three customers accounted for 24%, 18% and 11% of total net revenue. For fiscal 2012 three customers accounted for 31%, 15% and 12% of total net revenue. We are dependent upon the continued market acceptance and adoption of motion interface and, in particular, the adoption of our MotionTracking devices in consumer electronics products. Our products are currently used to provide motion sensing and processing functionality, primarily in consumer electronics products for video gaming and mobile and handheld devices, including smartphones and tablet devices. Motion sensing utilizes gyroscopes, accelerometers and other sensors (increasingly integrated together to reduce the number of discrete sensors) to measure the motion of the device when manipulated by the user, and enables applications such as re-orienting a screen on a smartphone from portrait mode to landscape mode and providing an interface for motion-based commands for video gaming. A motion interface platform, on the other hand, is a complete system-level solution that delivers improved functionality and performance because it integrates various motion sensors with digital control and processing, and provides high-level programming interfaces. Motion interface is a relatively new technology for many consumer electronics products that can be utilized in a number of applications, including motion-based video games or user interfaces for smartphones. We have developed a MotionApp platform that we consider to be proprietary. Market adoption and acceptance of motion interface technology, including our MotionTracking devices, in consumer electronics products is dependent on a number of factors that are outside of our control. For example, device manufacturers must decide whether incorporating the improved functionality and performance that comes with motion interface will result in improved sales and market acceptance of their products. In addition, device manufacturers may not be able to integrate motion interface or processing technologies into their products in a manner that they, or their customers, consider to deliver cost-effective, compelling functionality, and developers may not introduce applications that employ motion interface in a compelling way. In addition, there are a number of companies that claim intellectual property ownership over motion as a user interface, and these claims could discourage manufacturers from integrating motion interface technology into their products. We are particularly dependent upon the continued adoption of motion interface technology, including our MotionTracking devices, in mobile handheld devices, including smartphones and tablet devices. While smartphone manufacturers are incorporating advanced motion sensing functionality, including three-axis gyroscopes, into their devices, if applications that utilize this functionality are not further developed or if consumers do not find the applications provided by motion interface technology compelling, mobile device manufacturers may curtail their adoption of this technology. Consequently, our net revenue may fall short of our expectations and operating results could be adversely affected. Any unanticipated delay in the launch or decline in the volume of our customers’ smartphone and tablet device platforms into which we have been designed may negatively impact our net revenue. If we fail to develop and introduce new or enhanced products on a timely basis, our ability to attract and retain customers could be impaired, and our competitive position could be harmed. We operate in a dynamic environment characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, and rapid technological obsolescence. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, market and 22 Table of Contents sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance, integration and reliability and meet the cost expectations of our customers. A key element of our product strategy is to integrate additional sensors and motion interface functionality into our products, and to reduce the size and power consumption of products providing a given level of functionality. For instance, the nine-axis MPU-9250 combines our three-axis MEMS gyroscope, three-axis MEMS accelerometer, with a third-party three-axis e-compass, MotionFusion technology and MotionApps platform in a 3x3mm package which is 45% smaller than the package of our previous nine-axis product, and consumes substantially less power. The introduction of new products by our competitors, the market acceptance of products based on new or alternative technologies, or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing or future products obsolete. Our failure to anticipate or timely develop new or enhanced products or technologies in response to technological change could result in decreased net revenue and our competitors achieving more design wins. In particular, we may experience difficulties with product design, manufacturing or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new or enhanced products, including products with higher levels of sensor integration such as our nine-axis device, which has not yet commenced production in commercial quantities. If we fail to introduce new or enhanced products with potentially greater integration that meet the needs of our customers, or penetrate new markets, in a timely fashion, we will lose market share and our operating results will be adversely affected. Revenue delays could result from shortages of key third party components to our customers and injunctions of our customer products from intellectual property claims by their competitors. We are dependent on our customers for our net revenue and our net revenues could be negatively impacted by shortages of key third party components to our customers. In 2012, a third party chip supplier’s supply shortages limited the ability of handset makers to utilize our motion sensing technology. In addition, our net revenues could be negatively impacted by court injunctions on our customer products from intellectual property claims by their competitors. If we fail to successfully manage the transition to products using our next generation products or more highly integrated products, we will lose net revenue and our operations could be materially and adversely affected. The majority of our production volume today derives from our integrated three-axis and six-axis product families. We have introduced, and intend to continue to introduce, more highly integrated products that include greater motion sensing functionality and further enhancements to on-board motion interface capabilities. We may not be successful in achieving market acceptance of our more highly integrated single-chip products on the financial or other terms that we expect to obtain, and existing or potential new customers may instead rely on multi-chip, discrete motion sensor solutions. This could result in the loss of net revenue and earnings and potential inventory write-downs or obsolescence. If we fail to expand sales in our current markets, develop new customers and penetrate new markets, our net revenue and potential net revenue growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. Other than applications in smartphones and tablet devices and in the video gaming market, where we have historically derived the significant majority of our net revenue, to date, our MotionTracking devices have been employed in a limited number of other applications, such as digital still and video cameras, digital television and set-top box remote controls, 3D mice and remote-controlled toys. Our future net revenue growth, if any, will depend on our ability to expand sales in our current markets, develop new customers and penetrate new markets. If new markets do not develop as we currently anticipate, or if we are unable to penetrate new markets successfully, our net revenue and net revenue growth rate could be materially and adversely affected. While the general market for handheld devices is very fragmented, a limited number of manufacturers command a relatively large share of the market for smartphones with enhanced functionality running the Android operating system. All of these customers are large, multinational companies with substantial negotiating power 23 Table of Contents relative to us over price and terms of supply. Securing design wins with any of these companies or other smartphone manufacturers require a substantial investment of our time and resources. Some of these companies produce products that already include motion sensors, and they may decide not to adopt our MotionTracking devices. Additionally, the smartphone market is subject to a unique set of industry dynamics, such as shorter design cycles and multiple devices and manufacturers. The smartphone market is highly competitive, and if we are unable to continue to successfully navigate the unique dynamics of such market, if we are unable to adapt our products in response to any future changes in the requirements of the Android operating system, or if the products of manufacturers that choose to incorporate our solutions are not commercially successful, our net revenue may not grow and our operating results may be adversely affected. Our sales are subject to a competitive selection process conducted by our prospective customers that can be lengthy and require us to expend significant resources, even though we ultimately may not be selected; revenues from being selected may be lower than anticipated due to customers’ desires to have multiple sources for components. The process of identifying potential new customers, developing their interest in our products, moving through their design cycle, obtaining a design win, obtaining purchase orders and entering into volume production is extremely time consuming. We compete during our customers’ product design and planning processes to achieve “design wins,” which refers to a customer’s decision to include one of our solutions in its products under development. These selection processes can be lengthy and time-sensitive and can require us to invest significant time and effort. Our products may not be selected during a customer’s design process, and we may not generate net revenue despite incurring expenses and devoting significant resources to achieving a design win. Because the life cycles for our customers’ products can last several years and changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk, our failure to be selected in a competitive design process can result in our foregoing net revenue from a given customer’s product line for the life of that product. Typically, many customers, including most of our current customers, initially include our products in only one or a few product lines. It generally takes time for sales volumes of a new product line to grow and for customers to incorporate one of our solutions into additional product lines, if any. Even after we achieve a design win, a customer may decide to cancel or change its product plans, may fail to commercialize its products, or those products may fail to achieve market acceptance, any of which could cause us to fail to generate sales from a particular design win and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, large consumer electronics companies often elect to establish more than one source for components to promote competition and control risks of supply interruption. Such “dual source” strategies can result in lower sales from a design win than anticipated. Further, failure to achieve design wins could result in lost sales and hurt our prospects in future competitive selection processes because we may not be perceived as a preferred or competitive vendor. We generally place orders for products with some of our suppliers approximately three to four months prior to the anticipated delivery date, with order volumes based on our forecasts of demand from our customers. Accordingly, if we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may be unable to obtain adequate and cost-effective foundry or assembly capacity from our third-party manufacturers to meet our customers’ delivery requirements, or we may accumulate excess inventories. On occasion, we have been unable to adequately respond to unexpected increases in customer purchase orders and therefore were unable to benefit from this incremental demand. In addition, our third-party manufacturers may prioritize orders placed by other companies that order higher volumes of products, many of whom are larger and more established than us. In the event that manufacturing capacity is reduced or eliminated at one or more of our third-party manufacturers’ facilities, we could have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders, and our net revenue and results of operations could decline. Failure to achieve expected manufacturing yields for our products could negatively impact our operating results. Manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, some of which is proprietary to our foundries. Low yields may result from either product design or process technology failures. We do not know whether a yield problem exists until our products are 24 Table of Contents manufactured based on our design. When a yield issue is identified, the product is analyzed and tested to determine the cause. As a result, yield deficiencies may not be identified until well into the production process. Resolution of yield problems requires cooperation among, and communication between, us and our foundries. Because of our potentially limited access to wafer foundry capacity, decreases in manufacturing yields could result in an increase in our costs, cause us to fail to meet product delivery commitments and force us to allocate our available product supply among end customers. Lower than expected yields could harm our operating results, our customer relationships and our reputation. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and differences between our estimates of customer demand and actual results could negatively affect our inventory levels, sales and operating results. Our net revenue is generated on the basis of purchase orders with our customers rather than long-term purchase commitments. In addition, our customers can cancel purchase orders or defer the shipments of our products under certain circumstances. For example, in September 2009, our major customer requested that we delay shipment of products that we had expected to ship pursuant to firm purchase orders to that customer during the third quarter of fiscal year 2010. Our products are manufactured by third-party manufacturers according to our estimates of customer demand, which requires us to make separate demand forecast assumptions for every customer, each of which may introduce significant variability into our aggregate estimates. We have limited visibility into future customer demand and the product mix that our customers will require, which could adversely affect our net revenue forecasts and operating margins. Moreover, because products with motion interface platforms have only recently been introduced into many of our target markets, many of our customers could have difficulty accurately forecasting demand for their products and the timing of their new product introductions, which ultimately affects their demand for our MotionTracking devices. Historically, because of this limited visibility, at times our actual results have been different from our forecasts of customer demand. Some of these differences have been material, leading to net revenue and margin forecasts different from the results we were actually able to achieve. For example, our major customer reduced its orders for our products below levels we had anticipated during fiscal year 2011. These differences may occur in the future. Conversely, if we were to underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity were unavailable, we could be unable to take advantage of net revenue opportunities, potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships and market reputation. In addition, any significant future cancellations or deferrals of product orders could materially and adversely impact our profit margins, increase our inventory write-downs due to product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses caused by defects or bugs, which could delay the introduction or acceptance of our new products, damage our reputation with current or prospective customers and adversely affect our operating costs and revenue. Our highly complex motion sensing and processing products may contain defects and bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, defects and bugs. There may be additional defects and bugs contained in our products that, due to our limited operating history, may not have manifested. If any of our products contains defects or bugs, or has reliability, quality or other problems, we may not be able to successfully correct such problems. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, these defects or bugs could interrupt or delay sales to our customers. If any of our products contains defects or bugs, or has reliability, quality or other problems, we may not be able to successfully correct such problems in a timely manner. Defects or bugs could materially and adversely affect our ability to achieve design wins from existing customers and to attract new customers, which could adversely affect our market share and operating results. In addition, defects or bugs could interrupt or delay shipments to existing customers. If a significant defect or bug is not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may be required to incur additional development costs and product recall, repair or replacement costs. These problems may also result in claims against us by our customers or others. As a result, our operating costs could be adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents If we do not achieve continued tax benefits as a result of our corporate restructuring completed in fiscal year 2011, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We completed a restructuring of our corporate organization during fiscal year 2011 to more closely align our corporate structure with the international nature of our business activities. This corporate restructuring activity has allowed us to reduce our overall effective tax rate through changes in how we develop and use our intellectual property and the structure of our international procurement and sales operations, including by entering into transfer-pricing arrangements that establish transfer prices for our intercompany transactions. There can be no assurance that the taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate or to which we are otherwise deemed to have sufficient tax nexus will not challenge the tax benefits that we expect to realize as a result of the restructuring. In addition, future changes to U.S. or non-U.S. tax laws, including proposed legislation to reform U.S. taxation of international business activities as described above, would negatively impact the anticipated tax benefits of the proposed restructuring. Any benefits to our tax rate will also depend on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with the restructuring of our corporate organization and applicable taxing provisions, including by eliminating the amount of cash distributed to us by our subsidiaries. If the intended tax treatment is not accepted by the applicable taxing authorities, changes in tax law negatively impact the proposed structure or we do not operate our business consistent with the restructuring and applicable tax provisions, we may fail to achieve the financial efficiencies that we anticipate as a result of the restructuring and our future operating results and financial condition may be negatively impacted. The enactment of legislation implementing changes in U.S. taxation of international business activities or the adoption of other tax reform policies could materially impact our financial position and results of operations. Tax bills are introduced from time to time to reform U.S. taxation of international business activities. Depending on the final form of legislation enacted, if any, the consequences may be significant for us due to the large scale of our international business activities. If any of these proposals are enacted into legislation, they could have material adverse consequences on the amount of tax we pay and thereby on our financial position and results of operations. Our future success depends on the continuing efforts of our key personnel, and on our ability to successfully attract, train and retain additional key personnel. Our future success depends heavily upon the continuing services of the members of our senior management team and various engineering and other technical personnel. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, our business may be disrupted, and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if any member of our senior management team or any of our other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may experience material disruption of our operations and development plans and lose customers, distributors, know-how and key professionals and staff members, and we may incur increased operating expenses as the attention of other senior executives is diverted to recruit replacements for key personnel. Our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, and the pool of qualified candidates is very limited. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain existing, or attract and retain new, qualified personnel, including senior executives and skilled engineers, whom we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. In addition, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the growing demands of our business. The loss of any of our key personnel or our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers and others, could delay the development and introduction of, and would have an adverse effect on our ability to sell, our products, which could harm our overall business and growth prospects. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with our executive officers and directors, and their respective affiliates, will limit shareholder ability to influence corporate matters. Based on share ownership as of March 31, 2013, our executive officers and directors and their affiliates beneficially own or control, directly or indirectly, an aggregate of 23,746,260 shares, or 28%, of our common 26 Table of Contents stock (including 598,680 shares of common stock subject to outstanding options and warrants exercisable within 60 days of March 31, 2013). This concentrated control limits shareholder ability to influence some corporate matters and could result in some corporate actions that our other stockholders do not view as beneficial, such as failure to approve change of control transactions that could offer holders of our common stock a premium over the market value of our company. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Due to our limited operating history, we may have difficulty in accurately predicting our future net revenue and appropriately budgeting our expenses. We began doing business in 2003 and did not begin to generate net revenue until the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. For fiscal 2013 three customers accounted for 24%, 18% and 11% of total net revenue. For fiscal 2012 three customers accounted for 31%, 15% and 12% of total net revenue. For fiscal 2011, one customer accounted for 73% of total net revenue. As a result, we have only a limited operating history from which to predict future net revenue from multiple new customers and new markets. This limited operating experience, combined with the rapidly evolving nature of the markets in which we sell our products, substantial uncertainty concerning how these markets may develop, the rate of adoption of our products in these new markets and other factors beyond our control, reduces our ability to accurately forecast quarterly or annual net revenue. We are currently expanding our staffing, implementing new internal systems, and increasing our expense levels in anticipation of future growth. If our net revenue does not increase as we expect relative to the growth of our operating expenses, our operating margins could be negatively affected or we could incur significant losses. We may not sustain our growth rate, and we may not be able to manage any future growth effectively. We have experienced significant growth in a short period of time. Our net revenue increased from $29.0 million in fiscal year 2009 to $79.6 million, $96.5 million, $153 million and $208.6 million in fiscal years 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We may not achieve similar growth rates in future periods. Our operating results for any prior quarterly or annual period should not be relied on as an indication of our future operating performance. If we are unable to maintain adequate net revenue growth, our financial results could suffer and our stock price could decline. To manage our growth successfully and handle the responsibilities of being a public company, we believe we must effectively, among other things: • recruit, hire, train and manage additional qualified engineers for our research and development activities, especially in the positions of design engineering, product and test engineering and applications engineering, as well as adding additional sales personnel; • implement improvements in our financial, administrative, and operational systems, procedures and controls necessary to support larger manufacturing and sales volumes, a greater number of customers and an increased range of products; and • enhance our information technology support for enterprise resource planning and design engineering by adapting and expanding our systems and tool capabilities, and properly training new hires as to their use. Changes to the leadership or other senior members of our finance organization could result in delays in making improvements to our financial and control systems. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities or develop new products, and we may fail to satisfy customer requirements, maintain product quality, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and changes in credit rating and in the market values of our portfolio investments which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our cash, short-term and long-term investments represent significant assets that may be subject to fluctuating or even negative returns depending upon interest rate movements, changes in credit rating and 27 Table of Contents financial market conditions. Since September 2007, the global credit markets have experienced adverse conditions that have negatively impacted the values of various types of investment and non-investment grade securities. During this time, the global credit and capital markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption due to instability in the global financial system, uncertainty related to global economic conditions and concerns regarding sovereign financial stability. Therefore, there is a risk that we may incur other-than-temporary impairment charges for certain types of investments should credit market conditions deteriorate or the underlying assets fail to perform as anticipated. Our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates or if the decline in fair values of our debt securities is judged to be other than temporary. Furthermore, we may suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates or financial market conditions. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors’ views of us. Maintaining adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We have established processes, controls and procedures that will allow our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal control over financial reporting when required to do so under the rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404. In the past, we have experienced material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. While we have remediated these material weaknesses, there are no assurances that similar or new material weaknesses will not occur. We periodically review the effectiveness of our internal controls and procedures with a continuous improvement philosophy. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may adversely affect our stock price. As part of our ongoing efforts to improve our financial accounting organization and processes, we have hired several senior accounting personnel in the United States. Accordingly, we may be unable to effectively manage our public company reporting obligations, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our sales contracts are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars and therefore substantially all of our net revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk. However, the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar has increased the real cost of our products to our customers outside of the United States, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our operating expenses are incurred outside the United States, are denominated in foreign currency and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the New Taiwan Dollar. We do not currently hedge currency exposures relating to operating expenses incurred outside of the United States, but we may do so in the future. If we do not hedge against these risks, or our attempts to hedge against these risks are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Our primary customers, our sales and support facilities, our testing facilities and our third-party manufacturers are located in regions that are subject to natural disasters, as well as in some cases geopolitical risks and social upheaval. Currently, our wafer sort, final test and shipping operations, as well as the facilities of our third-party wafer manufacturing and assembly suppliers, are located in Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand. Our largest customers are based in Japan and Korea. We have sales and support centers in China, Japan, the Republic of Korea, United Arab Emirates and Taiwan. In addition, our headquarters are located in Northern California. Thailand, Taiwan, the Republic of Korea and Japan are susceptible to earthquakes, tsunamis, typhoons, floods and other natural disasters, and have experienced severe earthquakes, typhoons and floods in recent years that caused significant property damage and loss of life. The Northern California area is also subject to significant risk of earthquakes. In addition, facilities located in the Republic of Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and China are subject to risks associated with uncertain political, economic and other conditions in Asia, including the outbreak of contagious diseases, such as the H1N1 virus, natural disasters, such as severe flooding in Thailand during the 2011 monsoon season, and political turmoil in the region. Although these risks have not materially adversely affected our business, financial condition or results of operations to date, there can be no assurance that such risks will not do so in the future. There also can be no assurance that another earthquake, tsunami or other natural disaster will not occur in the Pacific Rim region, where the risk of such an event is significant due to, among other things, the proximity of major earthquake fault lines in the area. Any such future event could include power outages, fires, flooding or other adverse conditions, as well as disruption or impairment of production capacity and the operations of our manufacturers and customers, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Any disruption resulting from these events could cause significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing, assembly or testing from the affected facilities or contract to another location or third-party vendor. Under such circumstances, there can be no assurance that alternative capacity could be obtained on favorable terms, if at all. Any catastrophic loss to any of our facilities would likely disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and net revenue and result in significant expenses to repair or replace the facility. In particular, any catastrophic loss at the Sunnyvale, California or Taiwan facilities would materially and adversely affect our business. Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations due to a number of factors that could adversely affect our business and our stock price. Our net revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may occur on a quarterly and on an annual basis and are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • changes in end-user demand for the products manufactured and sold by our customers; • the receipt, reduction, cancellation or delay of significant orders by customers; • the gain or loss of significant customers; • market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis; • Delays in our customers’ ability to manufacture and ship products which incorporate our products caused by internal and external factors unrelated to our business and beyond our control; • new product announcements and introductions by us or our competitors; • incurrence of research and development and related new product expenditures; • seasonality or cyclical fluctuations in our markets; • fluctuations in manufacturing yields; • significant warranty claims, including those not covered by our suppliers; 29 Table of Contents • write-downs of inventory for excess quantity and technological obsolescence; • changes in our product mix or customer mix; • intellectual property disputes; • loss of key personnel or the shortage of available skilled workers; • the effects of competitive pricing pressures, including decreases in average selling prices of our products; and • in cases where our products are designed into a customers’ product along with components provided by third-party suppliers, disruptions in the supply chains of such third-party suppliers. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. In addition, a significant amount of our operating expenses are relatively fixed in nature due to our significant sales, research and development costs. Any failure to adjust spending quickly enough to compensate for a net revenue shortfall could magnify its adverse impact on our results of operations. Our product development efforts are time-consuming and expensive and may not generate an acceptable return, if any. Our product development efforts require us to incur substantial research and development expense. Our research and development expense was $19.7 million for fiscal year 2012 and $24.6 million for fiscal year 2013, and we anticipate that research and development expense will increase in the future. We may not be able to achieve an acceptable return, if any, on our research and development efforts. The development of our products is highly complex. We have experienced delays in completing the development and introduction of new products and product enhancements, and we could experience delays in the future. Unanticipated problems in developing products could also divert substantial engineering resources, which may impair our ability to develop new products and enhancements and could substantially increase our costs. Furthermore, we may expend significant amounts on research and development programs that may not ultimately result in commercially successful products. As a result of these and other factors, we may be unable to develop and introduce new products successfully and in a cost-effective and timely manner, and any new products we develop and offer may never achieve market acceptance. Any failure to successfully develop future products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to warranty and product liability claims and product recalls that may require us to make significant expenditures to defend against these claims or pay damage awards. From time to time, we may be subject to warranty or product liability claims that may require us to make significant expenditures to defend against these claims or pay damage awards. In the event of a warranty claim, we may also incur costs if we compensate the affected customer. For example, under the terms of our contracts with our larger customers, we are obligated to replace, repair or refund payment for defective products discovered by the customer generally for a period of up to three years after such products are delivered, and we remain responsible and liable for any latent defects caused by reasons attributable to us even after the contractual warranty period has elapsed. We maintain product liability insurance, but this insurance is limited in amount and subject to significant deductibles. There is no guarantee that our insurance will be available or adequate to protect against all such claims. We also may incur costs and expenses if defects in a device we supply make it necessary to recall a customer’s product. The process of identifying a recalled device in products that have been widely distributed may be lengthy and require significant resources, and we may incur significant replacement costs, contract damage claims from our customers and reputational harm. Costs or payments made in connection with warranty and product liability claims and product recalls could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by the political and economic conditions of the countries in which we conduct business and other factors related to our international operations. Sales to end customers in Asia accounted for 92% of our net revenue in both fiscal year 2013 and fiscal year 2012. In addition, approximately 42% of our employees are located in Asia, and substantially all of our products are manufactured, assembled or tested in Asia. Multiple factors relating to our international operations and to the particular countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include: • changes in political, regulatory, legal or economic conditions; • restrictive governmental actions, such as restrictions on the transfer or repatriation of funds and foreign investments and trade protection measures, including export duties, quotas, customs duties and tariffs; • disruptions of capital and trading markets; • changes in import or export licensing requirements; • transportation delays; • civil disturbances or political instability; • geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; • public health emergencies; • currency fluctuations relating to our international operating activities; • differing employment practices and labor standards; • limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; • local business and cultural factors that differ from our customary standards and practices; • nationalization and expropriation; • changes in tax laws; and • difficulties in obtaining distribution and support services. Substantially all of our products and our end customers’ products are manufactured in Taiwan and China. Any conflict or uncertainty in these countries, including due to public health or safety concerns, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries. The semiconductor and consumer electronics industries are highly cyclical and are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. These industries experienced a significant downturn as part of the broader global recession in 2008 and 2009. Industry downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. The most recent downturn and any future downturns could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Furthermore, any upturn in the semiconductor or consumer electronics industries could result in increased competition for access to the third-party foundry and assembly capacity on which we are dependent to manufacture and assemble our products. None of our third-party foundry or assembly contractors has provided assurances that adequate capacity will be available to us in the future. 31 Table of Contents Our business is subject to seasonality, which causes our net revenue to fluctuate. In addition to the general cyclicality of the semiconductor and consumer electronics industries, our business is subject to seasonality because of the nature of our target markets. At present, virtually all of our motion interface products are sold in the consumer electronics market. Sales of consumer electronics tend to be weighted towards holiday periods, and many consumer electronics manufacturers typically experience seasonality in sales of their products. Seasonality affects the timing and volume of orders for our products as our customers tend to increase production of their products that incorporate our solutions in the first three quarters of our fiscal year in order to build inventories for the holiday season. Sales of our products tend to correspondingly increase during these quarters and to significantly decrease in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. For example, our net revenue was $41.2 million for the third quarter of fiscal year 2012 and declined to $33.1 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. We expect this seasonality to continue in future periods and, as a result, our operating results are likely to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our business is subject to various governmental regulations, and compliance with these regulations may cause us to incur significant expenses. If we fail to maintain compliance with applicable regulations, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, which could subject us to civil or criminal penalties. The complex legal and regulatory environment exposes us to compliance and litigation costs and risks that could materially affect our operations and financial results. These laws and regulations may change, sometimes significantly, as a result of political or economic events. They include tax laws and regulations, import and export laws and regulations, government contracting laws and regulations, labor and employment laws and regulations, securities and exchange laws and regulations (and other laws applicable to publicly-traded companies such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), and environmental laws and regulations. In addition, proposed laws and regulations in these and other areas, such as healthcare, could affect the cost of our business operations. Our international operations face political, legal, operational, exchange rate and other risks that we do not face in our domestic operations. We face the risk of discriminatory regulation, nationalization or expropriation of assets, changes in both domestic and foreign laws regarding trade and investment abroad, potential loss of proprietary information due to piracy, misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights. Violations of any of these laws and regulations could subject us to criminal or civil enforcement actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Potential future acquisitions or strategic investments may not generate the results expected and could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we may pursue acquisitions of, or strategic investments into, companies, technologies and products that we believe could accelerate our ability to compete in our core markets or allow us to enter new markets. If we fail to manage the pursuit, consummation and integration of acquisitions effectively, our business could suffer. In addition, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such transactions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. Such transactions may involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • difficulties in integrating the manufacturing, operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated synergies of the combined businesses; • difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers, if any, of the acquired company; • diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; • the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we actually realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity or for our existing operations; 32 Table of Contents • risks associated with entering new markets in which we have limited or no experience; • potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the acquired company’s business; • assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the acquired company’s products; • inability to generate sufficient revenue and profitability to offset acquisition costs; • equity-based acquisitions may have a dilutive effect on our stock; and • inability to successfully consummate transactions with identified acquisition or investment candidates. There can be no assurance that any acquisition we might consummate will generate the results we anticipate. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. Our stock price has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and shareholders may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price they originally paid. The trading price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition to the factors discussed in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, factors that may cause volatility in our share price include: • our small public float relative to the total number of shares of common stock that are issued and outstanding; • sales of common stock by us or our stockholders; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • the expiration of the contractual lock-up and market stand-off agreements; • quarterly variations in our results of operations, those of our competitors or those of our largest customers; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, design wins, new solutions, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of related markets; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced solutions on a timely basis; • disruption to our operations; • the emergence of new sales channels in which we are unable to compete effectively; • any major change in our board of directors or management; • changes in financial estimates including our ability to meet our future net revenue and operating profit or loss projections; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; and • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for semiconductor and other technology companies in particular, have from time to time experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been 33 Table of Contents unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. These trading price fluctuations may also make it more difficult for us to use our common stock as a means to make acquisitions or to use equity-related compensation to attract and retain employees. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This type of litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 31, 2013, we had approximately 85.0 million shares of common stock outstanding, of which approximately 23.1 million shares were held by executive officers, directors or their affiliates and may be subject to volume and manner of sale restrictions of Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Sales of our common stock as restrictions end or pursuant to registration rights may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. These sales also could cause our stock price to fall and make it more difficult for you to sell shares of our common stock. Because we have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in us. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business. Any payment of future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on, among other things, our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, level of indebtedness, statutory and contractual restrictions applying to the payment of dividends and other considerations that the board of directors deems relevant. Investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize a return on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage a takeover that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as amended and restated, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of our board of directors to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • the establishment of a classified board of directors requiring that only a subset of the members of our board of directors be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders; • the prohibition of cumulative voting in our election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement that stockholders provide advance notice to nominate individuals for election to our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting. These provisions may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; 34 Table of Contents • the ability of our board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of our common stock. The ability to authorize undesignated preferred stock makes it possible for our board of directors to issue preferred stock with voting or other rights or preferences that could impede the success of any attempt to acquire us; • the required approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to repeal or adopt any provision of our certificate of incorporation regarding the election of directors; • the required approval of the holders of at least 80% of such shares to amend or repeal the provisions of our bylaws regarding the election and classification of directors; and • the required approval of the holders of at least a majority of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors without cause. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover provisions. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. Our board of directors could rely on Delaware law to prevent or delay an acquisition of us. Compliance with new regulations regarding the use of “conflict minerals” could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products. Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), requires the SEC to promulgate new disclosure requirements for manufacturers of products containing certain minerals which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. Manufacturers are also required to disclose their efforts to prevent the sourcing of such “conflict minerals” and metals produced by that country. While the new disclosure rules will not take effect until May 2014, the implementation of these new regulations may limit the sourcing and availability of some of the metals used in the manufacture of our products and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. We may also incur significant costs for due diligence to determine whether “conflict minerals” are used in our products and, if so, the sources of those materials. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 