D. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY Risks Related to Our wireless value-added Services We depend on China Mobile and China Unicom, the two principal mobile operators in China, for the major portion of our revenue, and any loss or deterioration of our relationship with China Mobile and China Unicom may result in severe disruptions to our business operations and the loss of a major portion of our revenue. We offer our services over mobile networks to consumers through the two principal mobile operators in China, China Mobile Communications Corporation, or China Mobile, and China United Telecommunications Corporation, or China Unicom, which service the major portion of China’s approximately 461 million mobile phone subscribers as of December 31, 2006. To a much lesser extent, we also offer our services to consumers through China Network Communications Corporation, or China Netcom, and China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom. These companies are owned by the Chinese government and have publicly listed subsidiaries. Our agreements with these operators and their provincial affiliates are non-exclusive, and have a limited term (generally one year for China Mobile and one or two years for China Unicom). We usually renew these agreements or enter into new ones when the prior agreements expire, but on occasion the renewal or new agreements can be delayed by periods of one month or more. If either China Mobile or China Unicom ceases to continue to cooperate with us, it would be impossible to find appropriate replacement mobile operators with the requisite licenses and permits, infrastructure and customer base to offer our wireless value-added services. We derived approximately 59% of our combined 2G and 2.5G services revenue from China Mobile, 34% from China Unicom, 6% from China Telecom and 1% from China Netcom in 2006. In addition, the Chinese government has extensive involvement in determining the structure of the telecommunications industry in China. During the development of this industry, changes in government policy have resulted in major restructurings of the telecommunications operators, including the establishment of new operators and the combination of all or part of existing operators. Any significant restructuring of any segment of the telecommunications industry in China, including in particular China Mobile, China Unicom or any other mobile operators in China and the potential combination of the mobile operations of various mobile operators in China, could significantly affect these relationships, our operations and our revenues. Due to our reliance on China Mobile and China Unicom for our wireless value-added services, any loss or deterioration of our relationship with them, due to their own business decisions or government-imposed restructurings, may result in severe disruptions to our business operations and the loss of a major portion of our revenue. 4 Table of Contents The termination or alteration of our various agreements with China Mobile, China Unicom and their provincial affiliates would materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability. Given the dominant market position of China Mobile and China Unicom, our leverage with these mobile operators is limited in terms of negotiating agreements, resolving disputes or otherwise. In particular, our agreements with them can be terminated in advance, penalties may be imposed or other parts of our services may be suspended or terminated, and approval for our new services may be delayed for a variety of reasons which vary among the individual agreements with the mobile operators, including, for example, where we breach our obligations under the agreements, a high number of customer complaints are made about our services or we cannot satisfy the operational or financial performance criteria established by the applicable mobile operator. We may also be compelled to alter our agreements with these mobile operators in ways which adversely affect our business, such as by limiting the services we can offer or imposing other changes that limit the revenue we can derive from such agreements. In certain provinces, China Unicom recently entered into new contracts with service providers in which it changed the share percentages it retained for customer payments. For example, where in the past service providers would receive 85% of a payment from a customer purchase and China Unicom would retain 15%, China Unicom has changed the share percentage of customer payments that service providers may retain to 70%. We may not be able to adequately respond to any such changes because we are not able to predict if the mobile operators will unilaterally amend our contracts with them. Unilateral changes in the policies of China Mobile and China Unicom and in their enforcement of their policies have resulted in service suspensions and our having to pay additional charges to the mobile operators, and further changes could materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability in the future. China Mobile and China Unicom have a wide range of policies and procedures regarding customer service, quality control and other aspects of the wireless value-added services industry. As the industry has evolved over the last several years, the mobile operators have refined these policies to improve overall service quality and increase customer satisfaction. For example, in July 2006 China Mobile introduced new policies which require extended free trial periods for wireless value-added services, new billing reminders for new and existing monthly subscribers and positive user confirmations for conversion of per-message subscriptions to monthly subscriptions. These new policies negatively affected our results of operations in the second half of 2006. In addition, in the last several years, acting under the guidance of China’s Ministry of Information Industry, or the MII, the mobile operators have begun enforcing their customer service policies more rigorously than in the past and have initiated steps to improve customer service. This rigorous enforcement has resulted in a number of severe penalties being imposed on us and other participants in the market. Penalties have included precluding service providers from offering certain services over a mobile operator’s network or from offering new services for a fixed period. We may not be able to adequately respond to these or other developments in mobile operator policies, or changes in the manner in which such policies are enforced. Furthermore, because the mobile operators’ policies are in a state of flux at this time and they are highly sensitive to customer complaints (even if the complaints may not have a bona fide basis), we cannot be certain that our business activities will always be deemed in compliance with those policies despite our efforts to so comply. Accordingly, we may be subject to monetary penalties or service suspensions or both, even for conduct which we believed to be permissible. In January 2006, China Mobile downgraded all of the Wireless Application Protocol (WAP) services of Beijing Enterprise Network Technology Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Network”), one of our affiliated Chinese entities, to the bottom of its WAP menu and temporarily suspended the approval of all of its new services due to improper promotion of one of its WAP services. In addition, Hurray! Solutions, another of our affiliated Chinese entities, was charged a fine of approximately RMB5.7 million ($0.7 million) by China Unicom for improper delivery of one of its Short Messaging Services (SMS) services to users. Finally in April 2006, China Unicom imposed a fine of RMB3.0 million ($0.4 million) on our affiliated Chinese entity, Beijing Hutong Wuxian Technology Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Hutong”), for violating a China Unicom billing policy by one of its WAP services. The WAP service was also suspended. Any future noncompliance with the mobile operators’ policies by us, whether inadvertent or not, could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. In addition, China Mobile has implemented a new “double confirmation” policy which requires consumers to confirm their purchases of value-added services by replying to a message from the operator. Without confirmation, the service will not work and we cannot receive payment. This new policy adversely affects our sales of such services. Our 2.5G revenues were negatively affected in 2006 by the slow growth of China Unicom’s WAP business. If this trend continues or the mobile operators in China experience slow or negative growth in their wireless value-added services user base, our revenue and profitability could be materially and adversely affected. Revenues from 2.5G value-added services declined from $35.9 million for fiscal year 2005 to $29.9 million for fiscal year 2006, representing a decline of 16.7%. Our 2.5G value-added services have not grown in part because of China Unicom’s decision to delay expanding capacity or building out 2.5G mobile networks into 2007 pending anticipated receipt of 3G licenses. If this market does not grow and evolve in the manner or in the timeframe that we anticipate, we may not be able to generate significant sustainable revenues from our 2.5G business. Such delay has negatively affected revenue from our VASPro Software as noted under “Risks Related to our Software Products.” 5 Table of Contents The Chinese government, China Mobile or China Unicom may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that any of them believe is inappropriate. China has enacted regulations governing telecommunication service providers, Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believes to violate Chinese law, including content that is pornographic or obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. China Mobile and China Unicom also have their own policies regarding the distribution of inappropriate content by wireless value-added service providers and have punished certain providers for distributing inappropriate content through the imposition of fines and service suspensions. Some of those providers indicated that the mobile operators informed them that certain of their content was construed as too adult-oriented or sexually suggestive. In addition, in June 2004, along with other participants in our industry, we received information and guidance from China Mobile and China Unicom regarding what they consider to be inappropriate content for wireless value-added services. In response, we reviewed our services and removed certain interactive voice response, or Interactive Voice Response (IVR), and picture downloads in order to comply with such information and guidance. There can be no assurance that we will not receive future guidance that could compel us to further alter our services. The appropriateness or inappropriateness of WAP and IVR content is a relatively new concept in China. Most importantly, the determination that content is deemed to be inappropriate is inherently subjective, and is subject to the interpretation of the governmental authorities and mobile operators in China. Their standards are generally more restrictive than those applied in many other countries like the United States. Accordingly, while we intend to comply with all applicable rules regarding wireless content, it may be very difficult for us to assess whether any particular content we offer that could be construed by the mobile operators as inappropriate under current regulations in China. Any penalties imposed on us by the mobile operators for the content of our services could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and reputation. China Mobile and China Unicom may impose higher service or network fees on us for their own business purposes or if we are unable to satisfy customer usage and other performance criteria, which could reduce our gross margins. Fees for our wireless value-added services are charged on a monthly subscription or per-use basis. As provided in our network service agreements, we rely on China Mobile and China Unicom for both billing of and collection from, mobile phone users of fees for our services. As noted above under “— The termination or alteration of our various agreements with China Mobile, China Unicom and their provincial affiliates would materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability,” our negotiating leverage with the mobile operators is limited. As a result, the mobile operators could unilaterally for their own business purposes amend our agreements with them to increase the service or network fees that they retain from the revenues generated by our wireless value-added services. In addition, under these agreements, these service fees in some cases rise if we fail to meet certain customer usage, revenues and other performance criteria. Moreover, for 2G services, to the extent that the number of messages sent by us over China Mobile’s and China Unicom’s network exceeds the number of messages our customers send to us, we must pay per message network fees, which decrease in several provinces as the volume of customer usage of our services increases. The number of messages sent by us will exceed those sent by our users, for example, if a user sends us a single message to order a game but we in turn must send that user several messages to confirm his or her order and deliver the game itself. We cannot be certain that we will be able to satisfy any performance criteria in the future or that the mobile operators will keep the criteria at their current levels. Any increase in China Mobile’s or China Unicom’s service or network fees could reduce our gross margins. If either China Mobile or China Unicom change their practices with regard to how service selections appear on their WAP portals, the revenue from our services, and thus our overall financial condition, could be materially and adversely affected. The current practice of both China Mobile and China Unicom is to place the most popular WAP services at the top of the menu on the first page of the list of services available in each service category on their WAP portals. Services at the top of the menu are more accessible to users than other services and, in our experience, are more frequently accessed than those services lower on the menu. This effectively reinforces the position of the most popular services. The placement of services on these menus creates significant competitive advantages for the top-ranked services and significant challenges for newer and less popular services. We believe that our prominent position on the WAP portals of the two principal mobile operators in China historically helped us maintain our position in the market. If either China Mobile or China Unicom changes its current practices so that the most popular services are not those that are the most accessible to customers, restricts the number or type of services a service provider is permitted to place on service menus or adopts new interface technologies that eliminate the current service menus, our services could become more difficult 6 Table of Contents for users to access and could, therefore, become less popular. In addition, as discussed under the heading “— Unilateral changes in the policies of China Mobile and China Unicom and in their enforcement of their policies have resulted in service suspensions and our having to pay additional charges to the mobile operators, and further changes could materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability in the future,” China Mobile downgraded the WAP services of Beijing Network to the bottom in its WAP menu in January 2006 for improper promotion of its WAP services. Such downgrade or any of the foregoing changes, if they occur, will likely materially and adversely affect the revenue from our services, and thus our overall financial condition. Our revenue from wireless value-added services may be adversely affected by China Unicom or China Mobile providing their own full portfolio of 2G and 2.5G services that compete with our services. In 2006, China Mobile began operating its own music WAP portal and procuring music content from music companies directly. Our revenues as a service provider have been adversely affected by this development, although some of this effect has been mitigated by China Mobile procuring music content from our affiliated music companies. Our business would likely be adversely affected if China Unicom or China Mobile or both decide to provide additional 2G and 2.5G services to mobile phone users which compete with our services. In that case, we would not only face enhanced competition, but could be partially or completely denied access to the networks of these mobile operators which would adversely affect our revenue from wireless value-added services. The popularity of our 2G and 2.5G services, and therefore revenues from these services and our profitability, would be adversely affected if our competitors offer more attractive and engaging services or our services are rendered obsolete by the introduction of newer technologies such as 3G. The wireless value-added services market is highly competitive, and our competitors may offer new or different services which are more popular than our 2G and 2.5G services. Moreover, our services could be rendered obsolete by the introduction of newer technologies such as 3G mobile networks. The PRC government has not as yet granted any licenses for 3G mobile networks to any mobile operators, and it is not clear when such licenses will be granted. Although we are planning to transition our 2.5G services to 3G services when 3G licenses are awarded and 3G mobile networks are launched, it is difficult to predict the development of new mobile technologies or the types of services that will be popular on any new mobile networks. Accordingly, we cannot be certain whether any services we offer which are compatible with such new technologies will be successful. China Mobile and China Unicom allow us to offer our services over their networks only if we achieve minimum customer usage, revenues and other criteria, and our revenues from 2.5G services depend in particular on our ability to meet those criteria to keep our services among the most popular offered through the mobile operators. If we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenues and other criteria imposed by China Mobile or China Unicom at its discretion from time to time, our services could be excluded from the applicable mobile operator’s entire network at a provincial or national level, or we could be prevented from introducing new services. In addition, we believe that the success of our 2.5G services depends significantly on whether our services appear at the top of the menu on the first page of the list of services available in each service category on the mobile operators’ WAP portals. The ranking of services on these WAP page menus depends on the satisfaction of performance criteria established by the mobile operators from time to time. If we are excluded from any mobile operator’s network or are not able to keep our 2.5G services at the top of the service lists on any mobile operator’s WAP pages due to performance problems, our wireless value-added services revenue would be substantially reduced, which would materially and adversely affect our overall financial condition and the market price of our ADSs. We must rely on China Mobile and China Unicom to maintain accurate records of fees paid by users of our services, deduct service and network fees due to them and pay us fees due to us. Errors in record-keeping by the mobile operators could adversely affect our profitability and the market price of our ADSs. We must rely on China Mobile and China Unicom to maintain accurate records of the fees paid by users and deduct the service and network fees due to them under our network service agreements. Specifically, the mobile operators provide us with monthly statements for our 2G services that do not provide itemized information regarding amounts paid for each of our services or calculations of the service and network fees. As a result, monthly statements that we have received from the mobile operators for our 2G services cannot be reconciled to our own internal records for the reasons discussed under “— China Mobile and China Unicom do not supply us with detailed information on billing and transmission failures, revenues, service or network fees or other charges, particularly with respect to our 2G services, and accordingly, it is difficult to analyze the factors affecting our financial performance.” In addition, we have only limited means to independently verify the information provided to us with respect to such 2G services because we do not have access to the mobile operators’ internal records. Rather, we can only seek consultations with the mobile operators to discuss the reasons for any discrepancies. With respect to our 2.5G services, the mobile operators allow us limited access to their transmission and billing system information to monitor if our services are actually delivered and paid for, which information we then reconcile to our own internal 7 Table of Contents records. In addition, the mobile operators in general provide us with monthly statements within two to three weeks after month end. To date, discrepancies between our internal records and the mobile operators’ confirmations has been insignificant. Nonetheless, we are still ultimately dependent on the ability of the mobile operators’ systems to accurately collect and analyze the relevant transmission and payment data regarding our services. Because of the dominant market position of these mobile operators, we have limited leverage in challenging any discrepancies between their monthly statements and 2.5G system information, on the one hand, and our own records, on the other hand. Our profitability and the market price of our ADSs could be adversely affected if these mobile operators miscalculate the revenues generated from our services and our portion of those revenues. Our dependence on the billing records of China Mobile and China Unicom may adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report revenue and other information regarding our wireless value-added services. Any inaccuracies in our records and public reports could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and the market price of our ADSs. We maintain controls and procedures to ensure that financial and non-financial information regarding our business is recorded, processed, summarized and reported in a timely and accurate manner. However, as noted in the prior risk factor, we depend on the billing records of China Mobile and China Unicom and have only limited means to independently verify information provided by them. If the information they provide us is incorrect or incomplete, then our own internal records will also be incorrect or incomplete. Our business could be adversely affected if our management and board of directors make decisions based on deficient internal information, such as strategic initiatives involving new wireless value-added services. Moreover, it is possible that, if information provided to us by the mobile operators were not correct or complete, our public reports could also be deficient, which could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. We recognize revenue for a portion of our 2G services on an accrual basis, based on an internal estimation process which involves the use of estimates of monthly revenues to the extent we are unable to obtain actual figures from the mobile operators before we finalize our financial statements, which could in turn require us to make adjustments to our financial statements. Our financial statements through December 31, 2003 reflected our actual revenues as they appear on the mobile operators’ statements. However, starting from 2004, we recognized revenue for a portion of our 2G services (as well as for a smaller portion of our 2.5G services) on an accrual basis and plan to do so in the future as necessary in order to report our quarterly earnings on a timely basis. This involves the use of estimates of monthly revenues based on our internal records for the month and prior monthly confirmation rates with the mobile operators in prior months if we are unable to obtain actual figures from the mobile operators before we finalize our financial statements. We expect the effect of these estimates on our financial results will be more significant on our quarterly results of operations than on our annual results, as we are less likely to receive confirmation on all of our 2G revenues before we disclose our quarterly results. To the extent that our revenues have not been confirmed by the mobile operators for any reporting period, we will need to adjust our revenues in the subsequent periods in which these revenues are confirmed. Actual revenues may differ from prior estimates when unexpected variations in billing and transmission failures occur. Recognizing revenues on an accrual basis could potentially require us to later make adjustments to our financial statements if the mobile operators’ billing statements and cash payments are different from our estimates, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market price of our ADSs. Our revenues and cost of revenues for 2G services, and to a lesser degree 2.5G services, are affected by billing and transmission failures and other discrepancies which are often beyond our control. We do not collect fees for our services from China Mobile and China Unicom in a number of circumstances, including if: • the delivery of our service to a customer is prevented because his or her phone is turned off for an extended period of time, the customer’s prepaid phone card has run out of value or the customer has ceased to be a customer of the applicable mobile operator; • China Unicom or China Mobile experiences technical problems with its network which prevent the delivery of our services to the customer; • we experience technical problems with our technology platform that prevents delivery of our services; or • the customer refuses to pay for our services due to quality or other problems. These situations are known in the industry as billing and transmission failures, and we do not recognize any revenues for services which are characterized as billing and transmission failures. Billing and transmission failures therefore significantly lower the revenues we record. The failure rate for 2G services can vary among the mobile operators, and by province, and also has fluctuated significantly in the past, ranging on a monthly basis from 0.5% to 9.1% of the total billable messages which are reflected in our internal records during 2006. 8 Table of Contents Although we do not experience the same type of billing and transmission failures for our 2.5G services as we do for our 2G services, we do experience a discrepancy between the revenues recorded by our internal system and the revenues confirmed by the mobile operators. This difference has historically averaged approximately 2% per month and relates to services that are provided but are not billed to the user for a variety of reasons associated with the manner in which the mobile operators register new users and manage their internal billing reconciliation process. We are also required to pay some of our content providers a percentage of the revenues received from or confirmed by the mobile operators with respect to services incorporating the content providers’ products. In calculating the fees payable to these providers, we make estimates to take into account billing and transmission failures, which may have been applicable to the services incorporating the providers’ products, and reduce the fees payable by us accordingly. Nonetheless, as estimates involve making assumptions which may prove inaccurate, we have in the past paid, and may continue to pay, such providers fees which are disproportionate to what we have been paid for the relevant service. Our costs of services, gross margins and profitability could be adversely affected if, due to problems in estimating billing and transmission failures, we overpay service providers on a consistent and continuous basis. China Mobile and China Unicom do not supply us with detailed information on billing and transmission failures, revenues, service and network fees or other charges, particularly with respect to our 2G services, and accordingly it is difficult to analyze the factors affecting our financial performance. China Unicom’s and China Mobile’s monthly statements to service providers, including our company, regarding the services provided through their networks currently do not contain information about billing and transmission failures, revenues, service and network fees or other charges or detailed information on a service-by-service basis, particularly with respect to our 2G services. While the mobile operators allow third party service providers such as our company to have access to their 2.5G transmission and billing systems, such access is limited and does not offer complete information on all fee calculations and other charges. Moreover, China Mobile and China Unicom have from time to time imposed penalty charges and service suspensions on us when they believe we have contravened their customer service policies. The information provided by the mobile operators does not, however, identify exactly which services caused the problem or the time period in which they occurred. As a result of the foregoing, we are unable to effectively analyze the factors that affect our financial performance and can only estimate our revenues and cost of revenues by service type. We are also unable to confirm which of our 2G services were transmitted but resulted in billing and transmission failures. As a result, with respect to specific services, we are not able to definitively calculate and monitor revenues, margin and other financial information, such as average revenues per-user by service and total revenues per-user by service, and also cannot definitively determine which of these services are or may be profitable. Moreover, we do not know what adjustments, if any, should be made with respect to specific services to avoid inadvertent violations of the mobile operators’ customer service policies. The services we offer and the prices we charge are subject to approval by China Mobile and China Unicom, and if requested approvals are not granted in a timely manner or approved services are suspended or terminated, our competitive position, revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. We must obtain approval from China Mobile and China Unicom with respect to each 2G and 2.5G service that we propose to offer to their customers and the pricing for such service. In addition, any changes in the pricing of our existing services must be approved in advance by these operators. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted in a timely manner or at all. Failure to obtain, or a delay in, obtaining such approvals could place us at a competitive disadvantage in the market and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, the recent more rigorous enforcement of customer service policies by China Mobile and China Unicom could result in heightened scrutiny of our existing or proposed services and pricing by the mobile operators. This could, in turn, result in delays in their approving new services, our failure to obtain approval for new services or suspensions (such as the service suspensions we received in January and April 2006) or termination of all or part of our existing services or reductions in approved pricing of our services. The occurrence of any of these actions could materially and adversely affect our revenues. If either China Unicom or China Mobile adopts a policy that prohibits branding by service providers for services provided on their WAP portals, our revenues could be adversely affected. We introduced our Hawa brand in the fourth quarter of 2003. The branding of our services is an important part of our marketing strategy to increase user awareness of our services and create enhanced customer loyalty. China Mobile currently does not permit the use of corporate names to brand services on their WAP portals. If China Mobile expands this policy to include non-corporate names such as Hawa or China Unicom adopts similar restrictions, we do not believe we could market our services as effectively, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues. 9 Table of Contents The Chinese government has granted licenses to offer limited mobility wireless telecommunications services (or “little smart) in China to China Telecom and China Netcom, two operators with which we have only begun developing relationships, and may grant such licenses to other parties with which we have not yet developed close relationships. If China Telecom, China Netcom or other parties receiving licenses in the future are successful in the wireless value-added services market, but we are unable to continue developing deeper cooperative relationships with such parties, our revenue and overall financial condition could be adversely affected. The Chinese government has granted licenses to offer limited mobility wireless telecommunications services in China to China Telecom and China Netcom. We have begun to develop limited business relationships with China Telecom and China Netcom, but such relationships are not as close as the ones we have developed with China Mobile and China Unicom. As a result, if we are unable to develop closer cooperative relationships with such operators, our revenue and overall financial condition could be adversely affected if they take market share from China Mobile and China Unicom. The Chinese government may also grant such licenses to other parties besides China Unicom, China Mobile, China Netcom and China Telecom, although the timing of such grants is unclear. As a result, if any other parties receive wireless telecommunications licenses and are successful in the wireless value-added services market, but we are unable to develop closer cooperative relationships with them, our revenue and overall financial condition could be adversely affected if they take market share from China Unicom, China Mobile, China Telecom and China Netcom. It is also possible that such parties receiving wireless telecommunications licenses may decide to offer wireless value-added services created by themselves, rather than by third party service providers such as our company. In that case, we would be in direct competition with those operators, and our revenue and overall financial condition could be adversely affected if we are not able to compete effectively against them. Risks Related to our Music Business The businesses of our affiliated music companies are subject to constantly changing consumer tastes. In order to implement our strategy to enter the music development, production and distribution industry, we formed a new affiliated Chinese entity, Hurray! Digital Music Technology Co., Ltd. (“Hurray! Digital Music”) in November 2005, whose name was changed to Hurray! Digital Media Technology Co., Ltd. (“Hurray! Digital Media”). In November 2005, Hurray! Digital Media agreed to acquire 60% of the equity interest in Beijing Freeland Wuxian Digital Music Technology Co., Ltd., whose name was subsequently changed to Beijing Hurray! Freeland Digital Music Technology Co., Ltd. (“Freeland Music”) to which certain entities of the Freeland Group, a group of affiliated companies in China engaged in the production and distribution of audio and visual products, contributed their respective music businesses. In December 2005, Hurray! Digital Media acquired 51% of the equity interest in Beijing Huayi Brothers Music Co., Ltd. (“Huayi Brothers Music”), a subsidiary of Huayi Brothers Group. In November 2006, Hurray! Digital Media agreed to acquire 30% of the equity interest in New Run Entertainment Co., Ltd. (“New Run”). In March 2007, Hurray! Digital Media agreed to acquire 65% of the equity interest in Beijing Secular Bird Culture and Art Development Center (“Secular Bird”). These four companies have been successful top-tier domestic independent record companies in China which engage in artist development, music production and music distribution. Each music recording is an individual artistic work. The commercial success of a music product depends on consumer taste, the quality and acceptance of competing offerings released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change quickly. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the financial success of any particular product, the timing of such success, or the popularity of any particular artist. The future success of our affiliated music companies depends on their ability to continue to develop recorded music that is interesting and engaging to our target audience, primarily users of the Internet and wireless value-added services. If our audience determines that the content does not reflect its tastes, then our audience size could decrease, which would adversely affect our results of operations. The ability of Freeland Music, Huayi Brothers Music, New Run and Secular Bird to develop compelling content depends on several factors, including the following: • technical expertise of their production and recording staff, • popularity of the artists of our affiliated music companies, • access to songs or songwriters, and • effectiveness of online and offline marketing and promotional activities. Furthermore, our affiliated music companies must invest significant amounts for product development prior to the release of any product. These costs may not be recovered if the release is unsuccessful. There can be no assurance that such products will be successful releases or that any product will generate revenues sufficient to cover the cost of product development. Because we are relatively inexperienced in the music industry, we cannot predict whether our efforts in this area will be successful. Our affiliated music companies may unknowingly purchase or license songs which have already been, or may in the future be, sold or licensed to third parties, which could create costly legal disputes over intellectual property rights with such third parties and the songs’ authors or composers. 10 Table of Contents Freeland Music, Huayi Brothers Music, New Run and Secular Bird generally purchase or license songs for their artists from the original authors or composers of the songs. In China, original authors and composers sometimes license or sell their songs to multiple music companies without informing each such company. In that case, our affiliated music companies may unknowingly purchase or license songs that have already been, or may in the future be, licensed or sold to one or more third parties. As a result, disputes may arise between our affiliated music companies, third party music companies and original authors or composers over the rights to particular songs. Any such dispute may require our affiliated music companies to incur significant costs to investigate and resolve them, including potentially the payment of damages to third parties. In addition, Freeland Music, Huayi Brothers Music, New Run and Secular Bird license and distribute songs to third parties such as providers of Internet and wireless value-added services, which then distribute the music content to their customers. Freeland Music, Huayi Brothers Music, New Run and Secular Bird may be subject to claims by such providers or any of their other customers if the customers suffer losses as a result of a dispute over the ownership of copyrights to songs provided to them. Our affiliated music companies often enter into contracts with third parties on behalf of their artists. If those artists fail to satisfy the requirements under those contracts, our affiliated music companies may be subject to claims, which could expose them to significant costs and business disruption. Freeland Music, Huayi Brothers Music, New Run and Secular Bird often enter into various types of contracts with third parties on behalf of their artists, including contracts relating to album publishing, advertising and promotional activities and public performances. If an artist fails to satisfy the requirements under any such contract for whatever reason (such as health problems), then our affiliated music companies may be deemed to have breached the relevant contracts. In that case, our affiliated music companies may be subject to claims for breach of contract by the counterparty to the contracts, which could expose them to significant costs and business disruption. Revenue from our affiliated music companies may not grow as fast as expected due to continuing problems of copyright enforcement in China and retention of popular artists. It can be difficult to enforce certain copyright protections in China. In particular, the music industry in China has suffered from serious piracy issues for many years. Our management estimates that for every dollar of copyrighted CD sales, there are approximately ten dollars of pirated CD sales in China. In addition, it can be difficult to retain artists who become popular and generate large revenue for us, given that such artists may decide to renegotiate with us or contract with other music content providers. This is a common problem faced by music companies in the PRC. The revenue generated from our affiliated music companies may continue to be adversely affected by the difficulty in enforcing copyrights and retaining popular artists, and therefore may not grow as fast as anticipated. Risks Related to our Software Products The market for our VASPro software is rapidly evolving and dependent on the growth of 2.5G and 3G services in China and elsewhere. We may not be able to generate significant sustainable revenues from this software if the market does not develop as we anticipate or we are unable to respond to new market developments promptly. The market for our VASPro software, which allows 2.5G services to be offered through the mobile operators’ networks, is rapidly evolving. We may not be able to develop and introduce software, software enhancements or services that respond to market demands, technology developments, increased competition or industry standards on a timely basis, or at all. In addition, to date, our revenues from VASPro have been primarily derived from one-time licensing and maintenance fees paid by China Unicom based on the capacity of its platform in terms of number of users. Under our current agreements, we only generate additional software revenues if China Unicom adds capacity for additional users on its nation-wide WAP portal or we supply such software to additional China Unicom provincial offices. In 2006, our revenues from VASPro were significantly negatively affected by China Unicom’s decision to delay expanding capacity or building out 2.5G and 3G mobile networks into 2007 pending anticipated receipt of 3G licenses. If this market does not grow and evolve in the manner or in the timeframe that we anticipate, or if we are unable to respond to new market developments promptly, we may not be able to generate significant sustainable revenues from our software. Our software sales are currently entirely dependent on China Unicom, and the loss of our relationship with China Unicom would materially and adversely affect the revenue from our software business. The only customer for our VASPro software currently is China Unicom. While VASPro is highly complex and customized software and, therefore, difficult to replace, it is possible that China Unicom could purchase similar software from third parties, or develop such software itself, and cease using VASPro. Moreover, several provincial offices of China Unicom that operate their own local WAP portals have purchased services provisioning and management software from other parties, and other provincial offices may do so in the future. In this case, not only would we lose future revenues from sales of additional software to China Unicom at the national or provincial level, but we could also lose what we view to be an important selling point when marketing our software to other mobile operators, the fact that the software is being used successfully by a major mobile operator. This would materially and adversely affect the revenue from our software business. 11 Table of Contents The market for our VASPro software in China is limited, and we may not be able to sell our software outside of China, in which case the potential growth of our software business would be limited. The other principal mobile operator in China besides China Unicom, China Mobile, purchases its services provisioning and management software from a subsidiary company of China Mobile specifically established for this purpose, and we believe it is unlikely that China Mobile will purchase our software for the foreseeable future. China Telecom and China Netcom have also not purchased our software. Accordingly, the market for VASPro is limited in China. In addition, we may have to market our software in other countries to increase sales, which we may not be able to do successfully. This strategy contains risks, including difficulty in managing international operations due to distance, language and cultural differences and an inability to successfully market and operate services in foreign markets. There are also risks inherent in doing business on an international level, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Our provision of both 2G and 2.5G services and services provisioning and management software and related services to China Unicom or other mobile operators could be perceived as a conflict of interest and unfair competitive advantage. As a result, we could be prohibited from providing certain of those types of services, which could materially and adversely affect our competitive position, revenue and overall financial condition. In addition to providing VASPro software, we provide China Unicom, at its request, operations support, data gathering, testing, consulting and maintenance services for its WAP portal. Third party wireless value-added service providers may complain to China Unicom or any other mobile operator that purchases our software that the simultaneous provision of wireless value-added services, VASPro software and technical consulting services for the software by us, which gives us access to China Unicom’s wireless value-added system, presents a conflict of interest and gives us an unfair competitive advantage. Actions arising from any such complaints could impair our ability to provide services to China Unicom or other mobile operators, which could materially and adversely affect our competitive position in the wireless value-added services market, the services provisioning and management software market, or both, as well as our revenue and overall financial condition. Our VASPro software is highly complex, and any defects in it could result in a refusal by China Unicom or other mobile operators to use it, as well as errors or failures in the networks in which it operates. Accordingly, any such defects could not only adversely affect our revenue from VASPro, but could also subject us to claims from users, mobile operators or other parties and damage our credibility. Our VASPro software enables mobile operators to manage a wide range of functions, including managing billing and multiple third party service providers. Given the breadth of this software, it is extremely complex for us to design, develop, install and support the operations of VASPro. Accordingly, despite our testing, current or enhanced versions of VASPro may contain software defects. Any such defects could cause China Unicom to stop licensing VASPro and cause other mobile operators to select services provisioning and management software from our competitors. Moreover, VASPro is a key component of the 2.5G mobile networks in which it operates, and defects could cause errors in such activities as billing or provisioning of services or even cause the whole network to crash. In that case, we could be subject to claims from mobile users, mobile operators which use VASPro or third party service providers for incorrect billing or delivery of services or other damages caused by network problems. Our credibility among mobile operators and users could also be adversely affected, which could adversely affect the long-term growth and profitability of our business as a whole. Additional Risks Related to Our Company Our recent acquisitions and strategic investments and any future acquisitions or investments may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and may subject us to unforeseen liabilities. Selective acquisitions and strategic investments, such as the recent agreement to acquire Shanghai Saiyu Information Technology Co., Ltd. (“Shanghai Saiyu”) and investments in New Run and Secular Bird, form part of our strategy to further expand our business. Such companies may not be as successful as they have been in the past, and may also not perform as well as we expect. Moreover, the integration of such companies into our operations has required significant attention from our management. In particular, we must ensure that the relationships of our newly acquired wireless value-added service companies with the mobile operators are not disrupted by the acquisitions. In addition, our management must also devote significant resources to enhancing its knowledge of the music development, production and distribution business in China, with which we have limited experience. Future acquisitions will also likely present similar challenges. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Acquisitions expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation 12 Table of Contents of new operations, services and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees and content providers as a result of integration of new businesses. The acquisition of any company could also subject us to unforeseen liabilities arising from the acquisition itself or the operations of the company or both. We face intense competition, which could cause us to lose market share and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Chinese market for wireless value-added services is changing rapidly and is intensely competitive. We compete principally with three groups of 2G and 2.5G service providers in China, which include companies that focus primarily or entirely on these markets, major Internet portal operators in China and niche service providers. We have faced competition from all three groups since our entry into this market. Moreover, there are low barriers to entry for new competitors in the 2G and 2.5G services market. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories in China, greater name and brand recognition, larger customer bases and databases, significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources and superior access to original content than we have. As a result, our existing or potential competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain additional market share, which in turn could reduce our revenues. With respect to our music business, we face significant competition from two groups of competitors. The first group consists of traditional record companies which are extending downstream to establish their own wireless value-added services or Internet services companies in China. Such competitors include international record companies and independent labels based in Hong Kong, Taiwan and mainland China, which have longer operating histories, larger music libraries and greater pools of popular artists in comparison to our affiliated music companies. The second group of competitors consists of wireless value-added services providers that focus on music-related products and have extended upstream to establish their own music production businesses in China. With respect to our software products, we face significant competition from major international software companies such as Microsoft, traditional telecommunications companies such as Motorola and NEC, and major software and professional services companies such as Hewlett-Packard and IBM, all of which have greater market share worldwide and financial resources than we do. These established software and telecommunications companies are better positioned to finance research and development activities relating to 2.5G and 3G technologies. They are also able to provide a wider range of products and services for a greater spectrum of media and have greater resources with which to purchase additional technologies or acquire other companies. We also compete against local software developers and telecommunications companies such as Aspire, Huawei and ZTE. We operate in rapidly evolving industries, which may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our business. We began commercially offering wireless value-added services and developing our VASPro software business in China in 2001, and since that time, the technologies and services used in the wireless value-added services industry in China have developed rapidly. Moreover, we have recently entered the music development, production and distribution business in China, which is also rapidly evolving. As a result of this rapid and continual change, you should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of development. These risks include our ability to: • attract and retain users for our 2G and 2.5G services, • expand the services that we offer, • respond effectively to rapidly evolving competitive and market dynamics and address the effects of mergers and acquisitions among our competitors, • effectively manage our new music businesses and leverage our music library, • continue to develop reliable, state-of-the-art mobile service provisioning and management software for mobile operators, • maintain, expand and enhance our relationships with mobile operators so that they will allow us to offer our 2G and 2.5G services over their networks and will buy our service provisioning and management software, and • increase awareness of our brand and user loyalty. Due to these factors, there can be no certainty that we will maintain or increase our current share of the highly competitive markets in which we operate. 13 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and middle managers to our management. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives, particularly certain members of the team which conducted the management buy-in of our company in June 2001, namely, Qindai Wang, our chairman and chief executive officer, Jesse Liu, our senior vice president and chief financial officer, and Haoyu Yang, our senior vice president in charge of music companies, as well as Shaojian (Sean) Wang, our president and chief operating officer since May 2006 and Jiang Wang, our senior vice president in charge of marketing and content sales since September 2006. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and middle managers to our management team. If one or more of our current or future key executives or employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement and a confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation agreement with us. As we believe is customary in our industry in China, we do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for the development and operations of our various businesses. Given the competitive nature of our industry, the risk of key technology staff departing our company is high and any such departure could disrupt our operations. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment strain our limited resources. Our future growth could be adversely affected if we cannot manage our expansion effectively. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. If the users base of our wireless value-added services increases or our affiliated music companies expand, we will need to increase our investment in our technology infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations, in particular our product development, customer service and sales and marketing, which are important to our future success. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our services and our customer support could deteriorate and our business may suffer. For example, any such performance issue could prompt China Unicom, China Mobile, China Telecom or China Netcom to cease offering our services over their networks. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • develop and quickly introduce new wireless value-added services, adapt our existing services and maintain and improve the quality of all of our services, particularly as the market for 2.5G services evolves and matures, • effectively maintain our relationships with China Mobile and China Unicom, enhance our relationships with China Telecom and China Netcom and establish new relationships with any other recipients of mobile licenses in China so that we are able to offer wireless value-added services over their networks and induce them to purchase our VASPro software, • attract and retain popular artists for our music businesses, • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees, including our senior management, and attract and integrate new employees, • develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls, and • maintain adequate controls and procedures to ensure that our periodic public disclosure under applicable laws, including U.S. securities laws, is complete and accurate. Any failures of the mobile telecommunications network, the Internet or our technology platform may reduce use of our services and our revenues. Our wireless value-added services are offered through the networks of China Unicom, China Mobile, China Telecom and China Netcom. In addition, we use our website to promote our services and enable users to order them. Thus, both the continual accessibility of the mobile operators’ networks and the performance and reliability of China’s Internet infrastructure are critical to our ability to attract and retain users. Moreover, our business depends on our ability to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our technology platform and the VASPro software we license. Any server interruptions, break-downs or system failures, including failures caused by computer viruses, hacking or sustained power shutdowns, floods or fire causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware equipment, or other events outside our control that could result in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of the mobile networks, the Internet or our technology platform, could adversely impact our ability to provide our services to users and decrease our revenues. Our corporate structure could be deemed to be in violation of current or future Chinese laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business effectively or at all. In connection with China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, foreign investment in telecommunications and Internet services in China has been liberalized to allow for a maximum of 50% foreign ownership in value-added telecommunications and Internet services in China. To comply with these ownership requirements, we have implemented a structure which is similar to those used by several of our competitors such as SINA, Sohu, NetEase, Linktone and TOM Online by entering into various 14 Table of Contents agreements with affiliated companies incorporated in China, including Hurray! Solutions, Beijing Cool Young Information Technology Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Cool Young”), Beijing WVAS Solutions Ltd. (“WVAS Solutions”), Beijing Network, Beijing Palmsky Technology Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Palmsky”), Beijing Hutong, Shanghai Magma and Hengji Weiye and their shareholders. Each of these affiliated Chinese entities is owned by various individuals in China. We do not have any direct ownership interest in our affiliated Chinese entities but have entered into a series of agreements with these entities through which we intend to be able to assert a degree of control and management. In addition, we control Hurray! Digital Media through three of our affiliated Chinese entities, Hurray! Solutions, Beijing Network and Beijing Hutong. It is possible that the relevant Chinese authorities could, at any time, assert that our agreements with our affiliated Chinese entities or any portion or all of the existing or future ownership structure and businesses of each of our company, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Hurray! Times Communications (Beijing) Ltd. (“Hurray! Times”), or our affiliated Chinese entities violate existing or future Chinese laws, regulations or policies. It is also possible that the new laws or regulations governing the telecommunication or Internet sectors in China that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in, or other aspects of, any of our, Hurray! Times’ or our affiliated Chinese entities’ current or proposed businesses and operations. In addition, these new laws and regulations may be retroactively applied. If any of our company, Hurray! Times and our affiliated Chinese entities is found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, without limitation, the following: • levying fines, • confiscating the incomes of any of our company, Hurray! Times or our affiliated Chinese entities, • revoking the business licenses of any of our company, Hurray! Times or our affiliated Chinese entities, • shutting down servers or blocking websites maintained by any of our company, Hurray! Times or our affiliated Chinese entities, • restricting or prohibiting our use of our financial assets to finance our business and operations in China, • requiring any of us, Hurray! Times or our affiliated Chinese entities to restructure our ownership structure or operations, and/or • requiring any of us, Hurray! Times or our affiliated Chinese entities to discontinue any portion of or all of their wireless value-added services. In any such case, we could be required to restructure our operations, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business effectively or at all. We depend upon agreements with our affiliated Chinese entities for the success of our business. These agreements may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. Because we conduct substantially all our business in China, and because we are restricted to a certain extent by the Chinese government from owning telecommunications or Internet operations in China, we depend on our affiliated Chinese entities, in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide those services through agreements. These agreements may not be as effective in providing control over our telecommunications or Internet operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, our affiliated Chinese entities could fail to take actions required to operate our business, such as renewing their business licenses or services permits or entering into service contracts with China Unicom, China Mobile and other mobile operators. Moreover, the fees for our services are paid by the mobile operators directly to our affiliated Chinese entities, which are then obligated at our request to transfer substantially all of such fees to our wholly owned subsidiary, Hurray! Times. If our affiliated Chinese entities fail to perform their obligations under these agreements, we may have to rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, which we cannot assure you would be effective or sufficient. In particular, the legal environment in China is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. Thus, Chinese courts are often inexperienced in handling corporate disputes, and different courts may apply laws and procedures in different ways. We do not believe that we have a reasonable basis to predict the likelihood of the occurrence of the foregoing risks. However, if there is such an occurrence, it could potentially have a significant adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and on our financial condition. We generate our internal funds almost exclusively from Hurray! Times. If that company is restricted from paying dividends to us, we may lose almost all of our internal source of funds. Except for a certain amount of cash held by Hurray! Holding (approximately $48 million as of December 31, 2006), we have no significant assets other than our equity interest in Hurray! Times. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends from Hurray! Times and technical consulting and service fees, license fees and other fees paid to Hurray! Times by our affiliated Chinese entities for our cash requirements, including any debt we may incur. We are likely to lose all of our sources of funds if 15 Table of Contents Hurray! Times is restricted from paying dividends to us. However, Chinese legal restrictions permit payment of dividends only out of net income as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations, which in turn restricts our ability to receive these revenues. The principal differences between net income under Chinese accounting standards and US GAAP relate to pre-operating costs, stock-based compensation and deferred taxes. Pre-operating costs are expensed when incurred under US GAAP, while they are amortized over five years under Chinese accounting standards. Stock-based compensation and deferred taxes are not recognized under Chinese accounting standards. Under Chinese law, Hurray! Times is also required to set aside a portion of its after-tax profit calculated under PRC generally accepted accounting principles, or PRC GAAP, for which the legal minimum requirement is 10%, to a non-distributable general reserve fund beginning in its first profitable year after offsetting prior year’s cumulative losses and to certain other non-distributable funds at an amount determined by Hurray! Times. The amount of reserves was nil as of December 31, 2006 since Hurray! Times incurred an operating loss in 2006. This reserve fund can only be used for specific purposes and is not distributable as cash dividends. If further restrictions on payments of dividends by our subsidiary are implemented under Chinese law, we may not be able to access our internal source of funds. Our revenues may fluctuate significantly and may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Our revenues and results of operations have varied in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Many of the factors that cause such fluctuation are outside our control. Steady revenues and results of operations will depend largely on our ability to: • attract and retain users in the increasingly competitive wireless value-added services market in China, • maintain and grow our 2G and 2.5G market share and revenues, and when launched, successfully offer 3G services, • successfully implement our business strategies, including integrating our recent strategic acquisitions with our existing core business, and • update and develop our services, technologies and content, including our VASPro software, which is highly complex. Because the wireless value-added services industry in China is new and rapidly evolving, our experience in the music industry is limited and our business has experienced significant volatility in terms of financial results as a result of the factors stated above, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that future fluctuations may cause our results of operations to be below the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We believe the copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property we use are important components of our wireless value-added services. In addition, our software products are highly complex and involve proprietary software source code and know-how. Our affiliated music businesses are also substantially dependent on their ability to protect their rights over their music content. Any unauthorized use of such intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our current and future revenue from such services and software, as well as our reputation. For example, rampant piracy in China has negatively affected offline sales of CDs and tapes by our affiliated music companies, and if piracy becomes a problem in online distribution channels, their financial results would be further materially adversely affected. We rely primarily on the intellectual property laws and contractual arrangements with our employees, clients, business partners and others to protect such intellectual property rights. Third parties may be able to obtain and use such intellectual property without authorization. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in the Internet, wireless value-added and music industries in China is uncertain and still evolving, and these laws may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of some other jurisdictions. In particular, the intellectual property law in China is less developed than in the United States and, historically, China has often not protected private parties’ intellectual property rights to the same extent as such parties might enjoy in the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and have a material adverse effect on our business, overall financial condition and results of operations. Due to the fact that we aggregate content and applications for our wireless value-added services, and because our services may be used for the distribution of information through, for example, our wireless community services, claims may be filed against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations. In addition, third parties could assert claims against us for losses in reliance on information distributed by us. For example, if we are found to have infringed any intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternative intellectual property. We receive numerous threats of infringement claims, often in the form of demand letters. Claims are typically made by music companies or other service providers. One recent lawsuit was settled and one is still pending in court. While 16 Table of Contents the vast majority of such claims do not develop beyond the demand letter stage and do not ultimately result in liability to us, we may also incur significant costs in investigating and defending such claims. We have not purchased liability insurance for these risks. We have limited business insurance coverage which could expose us to significant costs and business disruption. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products, and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Moreover, while business disruption insurance is available, we have determined that the risks of disruption and cost of the insurance are such that we do not require it at this time. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, particularly if it affects our technology platform which we depend on for delivery of our wireless value-added services. We believe that we were a passive foreign investment company for 2006 and are likely a passive foreign investment company for the current taxable year of 2007, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a PFIC, our U.S. investors will be subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will be subject to U.S. tax reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. Specifically, we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes for a taxable year if either (a) 75% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income, or (b) 50% or more of the average percentage of our assets during such taxable year either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. For such purposes, if we directly or indirectly own 25% or more of the shares of another corporation, we will be treated as if we (a) held directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets, and (b) received directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. We believe that we were a PFIC for 2006 and are likely a PFIC for the current taxable year of 2007. Accordingly, the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences described above could apply to you if you are a U.S. investor. Given the complexity of the issues regarding our classification as a PFIC, U.S. investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors for guidance as to our status as a PFIC. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of our classification as a PFIC, see “Taxation” below. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated articles of association include two provisions which could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. First, our amended and restated articles of association provide for a classified board of directors. Second, our board of directors has the right to issue preference shares without shareholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute a potential hostile acquirer’s ownership interest in our company, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. Shareholder rights under Cayman Islands law may differ materially from shareholder rights in the United States, which could adversely affect the ability of us and our shareholders to protect our and their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, by the Companies Law (2004 Revision) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders, and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law in the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law in this area may not be as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate laws. Moreover, our company could be involved in a corporate combination in which dissenting shareholders would have no rights comparable to appraisal rights which would otherwise ordinarily be available to dissenting shareholders of United States corporations. Also, our Cayman Islands counsel is aware of only a few reported cases of derivative actions having been brought in a Cayman Islands court. Such actions are ordinarily available in respect of United States corporations in U.S. courts. Finally, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate shareholder derivative actions before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may face different considerations in protecting their 17 Table of Contents interests in actions against the management, directors or our controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, and our ability to protect our interests may be limited if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court. All participants of our existing equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens may be required to register with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, the capital account department of SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Option Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company, Hui Zong Fa [2007] No. 78),” or Circular 78. It is not clear at this time whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans, including restricted purchase share awards granted by us, or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company such as our company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings by July 5, 2007 if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 are burdensome and time consuming. Circular 78 has not yet been made publicly available nor formally promulgated by SAFE, however, it is our understanding that SAFE has begun enforcing its provisions, although we cannot predict whether it will continue to enforce it or adopt additional or different requirements with respect to equity compensation plans. If it is determined that our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of our equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our personnel which is currently a significant component of the compensation of many of our PRC employees, as a result of which our business operations may be adversely affected. Our business benefits from certain PRC government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives and PRC tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Pursuant to the Income Tax Law of the PRC Concerning Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises and various local income tax laws (the “Income Tax Laws”), Hurray’s PRC subsidiaries and variable interest entities are generally subject to enterprise income tax at a statutory rate of 33%, which comprises a 30% national income tax and a 3% local income tax. Some of Hurray’s subsidiaries and variable interest entities qualify as “high technology” enterprises, and under PRC Income Tax Laws, they are subject to a preferential tax rate of 15%. This classification entitles Hurray! Times to a three-year exemption from enterprise income tax commencing in 2003, followed by a 7.5% preferential tax rate for the succeeding three years and a 15% preferential tax rate thereafter. The three year income tax exemption commenced in 2000 for Hurray! Solutions, 2002 for WVAS Solutions, 2003 for Beijing Cool Young, Beijing Network and Beijing Palmsky, 2004 for Beijing Hutong, 2001 for Shanghai Magma and 2006 for Hurray! Digital Music and Freeland Music. Huayi Brothers Music is classified as a “new enterprise” and, accordingly, enjoys an exemption from both national and local enterprise income tax in 2005. It will be subject to a 30.0% national enterprise income tax and 3.0% local enterprise income tax thereafter. Hengji Weiye is subject to a 15% enterprise income tax. In addition, Hurray’s subsidiaries in the PRC are “foreign invested enterprises,” and under PRC Income Tax Laws, they are entitled to either a three-year tax exemption followed by three years with a 50% reduction in tax rate, commencing the first operating year, or a two-year tax exemption followed by three years with a 50% reduction in tax rate, commencing the first profitable year. These preferential tax arrangements will expire at various dates between 2006 and 2010. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC adopted a new enterprise income tax law that imposes a single uniform income tax rate of 25% for most domestic enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises. This new law will be effective as of January 1, 2008. It contemplates various transition periods and measures for existing preferential tax policies, including a grace period for as long as five years for foreign-invested enterprises which are currently entitled to a lower income tax rate and continued implementation of preferential tax treatment with a fixed term until the expiration of such fixed term. In addition, under the new enterprise income tax law, foreign investors are not expressly exempted from the income tax on dividends from a foreign-invested enterprise, which exemption is currently available until the effectiveness of the new enterprise income tax law. Furthermore, the new law deems an enterprise established offshore but having its management organ in the PRC as a “resident enterprise” which will be subject to PRC tax on its global income. The term “management organ” has not yet been defined by the PRC government. The new enterprise income tax law empowers the State Council of the PRC to enact appropriate implementing rules and regulations. If the transition periods and measures for existing preferential tax policies are enacted as currently contemplated, any preferential tax treatment enjoyed by our subsidiaries and affiliated companies will terminate at the end of the grace period, which period may be eliminated or significantly shortened by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government may treat us as a resident enterprise 18 Table of Contents under the new enterprise income tax law, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, our historical operating results may not be indicative of our operating results for future periods as a result of changes in applicable tax laws. LEGAL RISKS RELATED TO WIRELESS AND INTERNET SERVICES The telecommunication laws and regulations in China are evolving and subject to interpretation and will likely change in the future. If we are found to be in violation of current or future Chinese laws or regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. Although our 2G and 2.5G services are subject to general regulations regarding telecommunication services, specific laws at the national level governing wireless value-added services, such as our services related to SMS and WAP, have only been issued recently. The interpretation and application of newly issued Chinese laws and regulations and the possibility of new laws or regulations being adopted have created significant uncertainty regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Chinese companies providing 2G and 2.5G services, including our Chinese affiliated entities. Many providers of 2G and 2.5G services have obtained various value-added telecommunication services licenses. Each of our affiliates, Hurray! Solutions, Beijing Palmsky, Beijing Network, Hengji Weiye, Beijing Hutong and Shanghai Magma, has been granted an inter-provincial value-added telecommunication license by the MII that permits it to conduct inter-provincial operations. Our affiliate, WVAS Solutions, has been granted a value-added telecommunication service license issued by the local Beijing Municipal Telecommunications Administration Bureau. This license may not be sufficient to authorize WVAS Solutions to provide value-added telecommunication services on an inter-provincial basis. We cannot be certain that any local or national value-added telecommunication license requirements will not conflict with one another or that any given license will be deemed sufficient by the relevant governmental authorities for the provision of this category of service, due to the lack of a comprehensive body of laws and regulations governing our 2G and 2.5G services. It is also possible that new national legislation might be adopted to regulate such services. If we or our subsidiaries or affiliates are found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations regarding our 2G and 2.5G services or Internet access which is discussed in the following risk factor, the relevant Chinese authorities have the power to, among other things: • levy fines, • confiscate our income or the income of our affiliates, • revoke our business license or the business license of our affiliates, • shut down our servers or the servers of our affiliates and/or blocking any Web or WAP sites that we operate, and • require us to discontinue any portion or all of our 2G and 2.5G services business. The regulation of Internet website operators is also new and subject to interpretation in China, and our business could be adversely affected if we are deemed to have violated applicable laws and regulations. Our affiliate, Hurray! Solutions, and some of our other affiliated Chinese entities operate Internet websites in China, which are one of the channels through which our services are offered. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws and regulations, the stated positions of the main governing authority, the MII, and the possibility of new laws or regulations being adopted have created significant uncertainty regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Chinese companies with Internet operations, including ours. In particular, the MII has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various Chinese government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. We cannot be certain that the commercial Internet content provider license issued by the relevant government agencies overseeing the telecommunications industry or any value-added telecommunication license held by Hurray! Solutions or our other affiliated Chinese entities will satisfy these requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable Chinese Internet regulations could subject us to severe penalties as noted in the prior risk factor. In particular, regulatory and policy changes by MII and the mobile operators can be unpredictable and have caused operating channels to become increasingly unavailable for marketing and promotion. As a result, we have diversified our marketing and promotion channels and developed direct media advertising, Internet marketing alliances, handset vendor partnerships, as well as offline channels such as record stores and convenient stores. These new marketing and promotion methods can be costly and may not be entirely effective in developing new business, which in turn, may adversely affect our customer base and revenues. 19 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA A slowdown in the Chinese economy may slow down our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. The Chinese government has, in the past, used macroeconomic tools and regulations to slow the rate of growth of the Chinese economy and may take similar measures in the future, the results of which are difficult to predict. The Chinese economy overall affects our profitability as expenditures for wireless value-added and music content services may decrease due to slowing domestic demand. More specifically, increased penetration of wireless value-added services in the less economically developed central and western provinces of China will depend on their achieving certain income levels so that mobile handsets and related services become affordable to a significant portion of the population. Moreover, sales of music content are substantially dependent on the level of discretionary consumer spending in China. The Chinese legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and could also adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. Although legislation in China over the past 20 years has significantly improved the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment and contractual arrangements in China, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protection available to us, and foreign investors, including you. In addition, the Chinese government may enact new laws or amend current laws that may be detrimental to our current contractual arrangements with our Chinese affiliates, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Any occurrence of pandemic avian influenza or other widespread public health problem, or any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. An outbreak of pandemic avian influenza or other widespread public health problem, or a renewed outbreak of SARS in China, where all of our revenues are derived, and in Beijing, where our operations are headquartered, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be affected by a number of health-related factors, including the following: • quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations, • the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and • a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: • economic structure, • level of government involvement in the economy, • level of development, • level of capital reinvestment, • control of foreign exchange, • methods of allocating resources, and • balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. 20 Table of Contents Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Because almost all of our future revenues may be in the form of Renminbi, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell and/or remit foreign currencies at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business after providing valid commercial documents. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. The value of our ordinary shares and ADSs will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The change in value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of foreign currencies. Since the adoption of this new policy, the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar has fluctuated daily within a narrow band, but overall has appreciated against the U.S. dollar. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant fluctuation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position and the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be adversely affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiary in China would be reduced. 