ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Deterioration of market conditions has recently and may continue to negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition, including liquidity. The market in which we operate is affected by a number of factors that are largely beyond our control but can nonetheless have a potentially significant, negative impact on us. These factors include, among other things: • interest rates and credit spreads; • the availability of credit, including the price, terms and conditions under which it can be obtained; • the quality, pricing and availability of suitable investments; • the ability to obtain accurate market-based valuations; • default rates on both commercial and residential mortgages and the amount of the related losses; • the actual and perceived state of the real estate markets, market for dividend-paying stocks and public capital markets generally; • general market conditions including, but not limited to, unemployment rates, consumer spending; and • the attractiveness of other types of investments relative to investments in real estate or REITs generally. Changes in these factors are difficult to predict, and a change in one factor can affect other factors. For example, during 2007, economic issues involving subprime residential mortgages had a significant adverse impact on the overall mortgage securities and resecuritization markets including the value of our CMBS investments, real estate loans as well as the availability and cost of short-term and long-term financing for commercial real estate related investments. We do not currently know the full extent to which the current market disruption will affect us or the markets in which we operate, and we are unable to predict its length or ultimate severity. If the challenging conditions continue, we may experience further tightening of liquidity, impairment charges and increased margin requirements as well as additional challenges in raising capital and obtaining investment financing on attractive terms. A prolonged economic slowdown, a lengthy or severe recession, or declining real estate values could harm our operations. We believe the risks associated with our business are more severe during periods of economic slowdown or recession if these periods are accompanied by declining real estate values. Declining real estate values would likely reduce the level of new mortgage loan originations, since borrowers often use increases in the value of their existing properties to support the purchase of or investment in additional properties. Borrowers may also be less able to pay principal and interest on our loans if the real estate economy weakens. Further, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur losses on our loans in the event of default because the value of our collateral may be insufficient to cover our basis in the loan. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our portfolio as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to the stockholders. We may not be able to access financing on favorable terms, or at all, which could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We expect to finance our assets over the long-term through a variety of means, including credit facilities, issuance of CDOs and other structured financings. Our ability to execute this strategy depends on various 31 Table of Contents conditions in the markets that are beyond our control, including liquidity and credit spreads. We cannot assure you that these markets will remain an efficient source of long-term financing for our assets. In fact, at the current time, the CDO market remains effectively closed. If our strategy is not viable, we will have to find alternative forms of long-term financing for our assets, as secured revolving credit facilities and repurchase facilities may not accommodate long-term financing. This could subject us to more recourse indebtedness and the risk that debt service on less efficient forms of financing would require a larger portion of our cash flows, thereby reducing cash available for distribution to our stockholders, funds available for operations as well as for future business opportunities. In today’s challenging credit and liquidity environment, match funding our assets and liabilities is more difficult than recent past experience. Under our repurchase agreements, we may be required to post significant amounts of cash collateral to satisfy our margin requirements due to lower collateral values or declines in advances rates from lenders or to repurchase securities upon the occurrence of certain events. We finance certain of our investments with repurchase agreements that are subject to margin calls. Under the terms of the repurchase agreements, the value of assets underlying the debt is marked-to-market by the counterparty at its discretion, as frequently as on a daily basis. If the value of the underlying asset declines, the counterparty has the ability to require us to post additional margin—cash or other liquid collateral—to compensate for the decline in value of the asset. (Conversely, if the value of the underlying asset increases, a portion of the margin we previously posted may be returned to us.) During the year ended December 31, 2007, such margin calls totaled $73.8 million, comprised of $12.6 million related to the decrease in advance rates from lenders and $61.2 million related to the decline in value of underlying collateral in the investments. Subsequent to December 31, 2007 and through March 28, 2008, there have been $65.8 million of margin calls. Given the current volatility in the capital markets, the Company cannot predict changes in the market value of collateral and potential margin call requirements. We are subject to margin calls at any time, and being forced to post additional margin could adversely affect our business in a number of ways. Posting additional margin would decrease our cash available to make other, higher yielding investments (thereby decreasing our return on equity) or to satisfy other obligations, including future margin calls. In addition, in periods of increased market volatility, we may need to hold increased levels of cash to support potential margin calls which could lower our economic return. Further, under certain of our repurchase agreements, the counterparty may have a right, exercisable upon the occurrence of certain events relating to the “repo market” or the “securities market,” to terminate the facility, in which event we may be obligated to immediately repurchase all securities then held by the counterparty. If we do not have the funds available, or otherwise elect not, to satisfy any future margin calls or repurchase assets upon termination, we could be forced to sell one or more investments at a loss. Moreover, we may be unable, in light of market conditions or other factors, to sell sufficient assets to satisfy the margin or repurchase requirements within the timeframe required by the applicable counterparties, which would entitle them to seize the underlying assets and seek payment from us for any shortfall between the value of our obligation to the counterparty and the value of the asset surrendered. If a counterparty to one of our repurchase transactions becomes insolvent or otherwise defaults on its obligation to resell the underlying securities back to us at the end of the transaction term, we may lose money on such repurchase transaction. We finance a meaningful portion of our investments with repurchase agreements, which are financing facilities with counterparties through which particular assets are financed as discrete “transactions.” Under the terms of each such transaction, we sell an asset to a counterparty for a specified price and concurrently agree to repurchase the same security from our counterparty at a later date. We make periodic payments to the counterparty during the term of the repurchase agreement serving as the equivalent of paying interest to the counterparty in return for extending financing to us. If the counterparty becomes insolvent or otherwise defaults on its obligation to resell the securities back to us, we may fail to recover the full value of our asset that is 32 Table of Contents financed with the repurchase agreement, and thereby incur a loss on the repurchase transaction. Any realized losses we incur on our repurchase transactions will adversely affect our earnings, and thus our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations. When we obtain financing, lenders impose restrictions on us that affect our ability to incur additional debt, our ability to make distributions to stockholders and our flexibility to determine our operating policies. Loan documents we execute may contain negative covenants that, among other things, limit the amount of leverage that we may employ, require that we maintain certain interest and fixed charge coverage ratios, require that we maintain a certain minimum tangible net worth, limit our recourse indebtedness, limit our ability to distribute more than a certain amount of our funds from operations and require us to hedge our interest rate exposure. At December 31, 2007, we obtained waivers from our lenders with respect to certain tangible net worth covenants under the Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan facilities. At December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with all covenants and requirements under our repurchase agreements. With the adoption of SFAS No. 159 effective January 1, 2008, we expect to remain in compliance with covenants of those facilities. If we are not in compliance with any of our covenants, there can be no assurance that our lenders would waive such non-compliance in the future and any such non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on us. Investor demand for commercial real estate CDOs has been substantially curtailed. The recent turmoil in the structured finance markets, in particular the sub-prime residential loan market, has negatively impacted the credit markets generally, and, as a result, investor demand for commercial real estate CDOs has been substantially curtailed. In recent years, we have relied to a substantial extent on CDO financings to obtain long-term match funded financing for our investments. Until the market for commercial real estate CDOs recovers, we may be unable to utilize CDOs to finance our investments and we may need to utilize less favorable sources of financing to finance our investments on a long-term basis. There can be no assurance as to when demand for commercial real estate CDOs will return or the terms of such securities investors will demand or whether we will be able to issue CDOs to finance our investments on terms beneficial to us. We expect to incur significant debt to finance our investments, which may subject us to increased risk of loss and reduce cash available for distributions to our stockholders. We intend to leverage our assets through borrowings, generally through the use of bank credit facilities, repurchase agreements, the issuance of collateralized debt obligation transactions, or CDOs, and long-term corporate indebtedness. The percentage of leverage varies depending on our ability to obtain credit facilities and the lender’s estimate of the stability of the portfolio’s cash flow and the market value of the underlying collateral. Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our stockholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired. As of December 31, 2007, we had outstanding indebtedness totaling $974.6 million related to the CDO issuances in October 2006 and November 2005 and $261.9 million outstanding under our repurchase agreements and $61.9 million of junior subordinated debentures outstanding. See “Capital and Leverage Policies” for a discussion of CDOs and repurchase agreement financing arrangements. Our debt service payments reduce cash available for distribution to stockholders. For the year ended December 31, 2007, $73.2 million of debt service, excluding principal repayments and margin calls, was paid primarily related to our repurchase agreements CDOs and junior subordinated debentures. Principal repayments on our repurchase agreements resulting from declines in the estimated value of collateral and lower advance rates from lenders on such collateral aggregated $73.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2007 and $65.8 million from January 1, 2008 through March 28, 2008. We may not be able to meet our debt service obligations including periodic margin calls and, to the extent that we cannot, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy our debt obligations. 33 Table of Contents While we have historically maintained target debt-to-equity ratios of between approximately two-to-one and three-to-one, and currently operate with a targeted debt-to-equity ratio of four-to-one to six-to-one, our governing documents contain no limitation on the amount of debt we may incur, and our board of directors may change our debt policy at any time without stockholder approval. In addition, we may leverage individual assets or portfolios of assets at substantially higher levels than four-to-one and six-to-one debt-to-equity ratios. Incurring debt could subject us to many risks, including the risks that: • our cash flow from operations may be insufficient to make required payments of principal and interest, resulting in the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale in order to satisfy our debt obligations; • our debt may increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, future business opportunities, dividends or other purposes; • the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of the debt being refinanced; and • the use of leverage could adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders and the market price of our common stock. A decrease in the value of the assets financed with repurchase agreements, some of which may be recourse to the company, may lead to margin calls that we will have to satisfy. We may not have the funds available to satisfy these margin calls, and be forced to sell assets to satisfy such debt obligations. Interest rate fluctuations could reduce our ability to generate income on our investments and may cause losses. Our primary interest rate exposures relate to our floating rate loans and variable-rate debt, as well as our interest rate swaps that we utilize for hedging purposes. Changes in interest rates will affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning investments and the interest expense we incur in financing these investments. Changes in the level of interest rates also may affect our ability to originate and acquire assets, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the disposition of assets. Changes in interest rates may also affect borrower default rates. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase, while the interest we earn on our fixed-rate debt investments would not change, adversely affecting our profitability. Based on our cost basis, as of December 31, 2007, 75.3% of our investments had fixed rate terms and 14.9% of our debt had fixed rate terms (approximately % reflecting the effect of pay fixed interest rate swaps outstanding at December 31, 2007). At December 31, 2007, the Company had $342.3 million of floating rate assets and $1.0 billion of floating rate debt all tied to LIBOR, resulting in net floating rate liabilities of $700.1 million. This exposure has been hedged with $707.3 million of pay fixed interest rate swaps based on notional balances in effect at December 31, 2007 thereby reducing exposure to interest rate fluctuations to approximately $7.2 million of net assets. See “Capital and Leverage Policies” and “Capital and Interest Rate Risk Management.” Our operating results depend in large part on differences between the income from our assets, net of credit losses, and our financing costs. We anticipate that, in most cases, for any period during which our assets are not match-funded, the income from such assets will respond more slowly to interest rate fluctuations than the cost of our borrowings. Consequently, changes in interest rates, particularly short-term interest rates, may significantly influence our net income. Increases in these rates will tend to decrease our net income and the market value of our fixed rate assets. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding interest income would result in operating losses for us. At December 31, 2007, our interest rate swaps substantially mitigate the impact of an interest rate increase on net earnings and cash flows although changes in interest rates will generally impact our net income. All of our 34 Table of Contents floating rate assets and liabilities are tied to USD-LIBOR or a different applicable base rate, subject, in some cases, to certain caps or limitations. The following table shows the estimated change in net income for a 12-month period based on changes in the applicable USD-LIBOR rates applied to floating rate assets, liabilities and interest rate swaps outstanding as of December 31, 2007: LIBOR Rate Change (Basis Points) Estimated Increase (Decrease)in Net Income Over 12Months at December 31, 2007(1) (in thousands) -200 $(157) -100 (78) 100 78 200 157 (1) Estimated increased (decrease) in net income over next twelve months does not consider the impact of SFAS No. 159 adoption, effective January 1, 2008 or any future changes in advance rates and spreads on borrowing arrangements. Interest rate changes will also affect the fair value of our CMBS investments, real estate loans and derivatives. We do not hedge against potential fair value changes as we generally seek to hold investments to maturity. If credit spreads widen before we obtain long-term match funded financing for our assets, the value of our assets may suffer and we may earn lower returns on our equity invested. We price our assets based on our assumptions about future levels of credit spreads for longer term fixed rate financing of those assets. We expect to obtain longer term financing for these assets at a spread over a certain benchmark, such as the yield on United States Treasury bonds, swaps, or LIBOR. If the spread that investors will pay over the benchmark widens and the rates we charge on our loans or the income we generate from our other assets are not increased accordingly, we may experience a material adverse effect on our income and returns on equity as well as a reduction in the economic value of the assets that we have originated or acquired. We may not be able to acquire eligible securities and/or loans for future CDO issuances, or may not be able to issue CDO securities on attractive terms that closely match fund the duration of our assets and liabilities, which may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. We intend to finance our real estate securities and loans on a long-term basis, such as through the issuance of CDOs. Prior to the issuance of our CDOs, we finance our investments with relatively short-term credit facilities. We use these short-term facilities to finance the acquisition of real estate securities until a sufficient quantity of securities is accumulated, at which time we refinance these facilities with CDO issuances. To the extent available in the market, we expect to follow a similar process to finance our future growth. As a result, we are subject to the risk that we will not be able to acquire, during the period that our short-term facilities are available, a sufficient amount of eligible securities to maximize the efficiency of a CDO issuance. We also bear the risk that we will not be able to obtain short-term credit facilities or may not be able to renew any short-term credit facilities after they expire should we find it necessary to extend our short-term credit facilities to allow more time to seek and acquire the necessary eligible securities for a long term financing. Inability to renew our short-term credit facilities may require us to seek more costly financing for our investments or to liquidate assets. In addition, conditions in the capital markets may make the issuance of a CDO unavailable or less attractive to us when we do have a sufficient pool of collateral. If we are unable to issue a CDO to finance these assets, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or otherwise to liquidate the assets. In fact, at this time the CDO market is effectively closed. 35 Table of Contents The use of CDO financings with over-collateralization requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow. The terms of the CDOs that we have issued and intend to issue in the future generally provide that the principal amount of assets must exceed the principal balance of the related bonds by a certain amount. This excess collateral requirement is commonly referred to as “over-collateralization.” The CDO terms provide that, if certain delinquencies or losses exceed the specified levels based on rating agencies’ (or the financial guaranty insurer’s, if applicable) analyses of the characteristics of the assets pledged to collateralize the bonds, the required level of over-collateralization may be increased or may be prevented from decreasing as would otherwise be permitted if losses or delinquencies did not exceed those levels. Other tests (based on delinquency levels or other criteria) may restrict our ability to receive net income from assets pledged to secure CDOs. We cannot assure you that the performance tests will be satisfied. Nor can we assure you, in advance of completing negotiations with the rating agencies or other key transaction parties on our future CDO financings, of the actual terms of the delinquency tests, over-collateralization terms, cash flow release mechanisms or other significant factors regarding the calculation of net income to us. Failure to obtain favorable terms with regard to these matters may materially and adversely affect our net income and/or our free cash flow. If our assets fail to perform as anticipated, our over-collateralization or other credit enhancement expense associated with our CDO financings will increase. The failure to comply with CDO coverage tests may have a negative impact on our cash flow. The terms of both of our CDOs include coverage tests, including over-collateralization and interest coverage tests, used primarily to determine whether and to what extent principal and interest proceeds on the underlying collateral debt securities and other assets may be used to pay principal of and interest on the subordinate classes of bonds in the applicable CDO. In the event the coverage tests are not satisfied, interest and principal that would otherwise be payable on the subordinate classes may be re-directed to pay principal on the senior bond classes. Therefore, failure to satisfy the coverage tests could adversely affect cash flows received by us from the CDOs and thereby our liquidity and operating results. As of December 31, 2007, none of the collateral debt securities or other assets in the applicable CDOs is in a condition that would cause expedited amortization. The significant cash proceeds as a result of CDO financings may have a negative impact on our earnings and cash flow. As a result of our CDO financings, we may receive significant cash proceeds, including restricted cash available to fund future investments. If we fail to invest the cash timely, we will have significant cash resulting in a negative spread on our outstanding cash balance relative to financing costs on such balances over the short to medium-term until we successfully invest all the cash generated from the CDO. We may be required to repurchase loans that we have sold to indemnify holders of our CDOs. If any of the loans we originate or acquire and sell or securitize do not comply with representations and warranties that we make about certain characteristics of the loans, the borrowers and the underlying properties, the terms of CDO I and CDO II require us, and the terms of any future CDOs will likely require us, to repurchase those loans (including from a trust vehicle used to facilitate a structured financing of the assets through CDOs) or replace them with substitute loans. In addition, in the case of loans that we have sold instead of retained, we may be required to indemnify purchasers for losses or expenses incurred as a result of a breach of a representation or warranty. Repurchased loans typically require a significant allocation of working capital to carry on our books, and our ability to borrow against such assets is limited. Any significant repurchases or indemnification payments could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. An increase in prepayment rates could adversely affect yields on our investments. The value of our assets may be affected by prepayment rates on mortgage loans. Prepayment rates on mortgage loans are influenced by changes in interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other 36 Table of Contents factors beyond our control, and consequently, prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty. In periods of declining mortgage interest rates, prepayments on mortgage loans generally increase. If general interest rates decline as well, we are likely to reinvest the proceeds of prepayments received during these periods in assets yielding less than the mortgage loans that were prepaid. In addition, the market value of the mortgage loan assets may, because of the risk of prepayment, benefit less than other fixed-income securities from declining interest rates. Conversely, in periods of rising interest rates, prepayments on mortgage loans generally decrease, in which case we would not have the prepayment proceeds available to invest in assets with higher yields. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios, we may fail to recoup fully our cost of certain investments purchased at a premium to face value. Our hedging transactions may limit our gains, result in losses or limit our free cash flow. We intend to use derivative instruments, including forwards, futures, swaps and options, in our risk management strategy to limit the effects of changes in interest rates on our operations. The value of our forwards, futures and swaps may fluctuate over time in response to changing market conditions, and will tend to change inversely with the value of our liabilities that we intend to hedge. Hedges are sometimes ineffective because the correlation between changes in value of the underlying investment and the derivative instrument is less than was expected when the hedging transaction was undertaken. Since a substantial portion of our hedging activity is intended to cover the period between origination or purchase of loans using short term financing vehicles and obtaining permanent fixed-rate financing for those loans, unmatched losses in our hedging program may occur when the planned permanent fixed rate financing fails to occur, we sell the underlying asset, or if the hedge proves to be ineffective. Realized losses on hedge positions will reduce cash available for distribution to stockholders and such losses may exceed amounts invested in these instruments. Hedging instruments often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities and involve risks and costs. The cost of using hedging instruments increases as the period covered by the instrument increases and during periods of rising and volatile interest rates. We may increase our hedging activity and thus increase our hedging costs during periods when interest rates are volatile or rising and hedging costs have increased. In addition, hedging instruments involve risk since they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities. Consequently, there are no requirements with respect to record keeping, financial responsibility or segregation of customer funds and positions. Furthermore, the enforceability of agreements underlying derivative transactions may depend on compliance with applicable statutory and commodity and other regulatory requirements and, depending on the identity of the counterparty, applicable international requirements. The business failure of a hedge counterparty with whom we enter into a hedging transaction will most likely result in a default. Default by a party with whom we enter into a hedging transaction may result in the loss of unrealized profits. Although generally we will seek to reserve the right to terminate our hedge positions, it may not always be possible to dispose of or close out a hedge position without the consent of the hedge counterparty, and we may not be able to enter into a replacement contract in order to cover our risk. We cannot assure you that a liquid secondary market will exist for hedging instruments purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in losses. We are subject to significant competition and we may not compete successfully. We are subject to significant competition in acquiring investments. We compete with many other companies, such as other REITs, insurance companies and other investors, including funds and companies affiliated with the J.E. Robert Company. Although the current market environment has led many of our traditional competitors to reduce their demand for investments we have seen new competitors enter the field to take advantage of dislocations in the lending market and perceived attractive returns. Some of our competitors have greater resources than us, and we may not be able to compete successfully for investments. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Investments Our real estate investments are subject to risks particular to real property. We own assets directly or indirectly secured by real estate and may own real estate directly. Real estate investments will be subject to various risks, including: • acts of God, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses; • acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist attacks, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001; • adverse changes in national and local economic and market conditions and credit performance of tenants; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • costs of remediation and liabilities associated with environmental conditions such as indoor mold; and • the potential for uninsured or underinsured property losses. If any of these or similar events occurs, it may reduce our return from an affected property or investment and reduce or eliminate our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The mortgage loans in which we invest and the mortgage loans underlying the mortgage backed securities in which we invest are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss, which could result in losses to us. Commercial mortgage loans are secured by multifamily or commercial property and are subject to risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss of interest and principal. The ability of a borrower to repay a loan secured by an income-producing property typically is dependent primarily upon the successful operation of the property rather than upon the existence of independent income or assets of the borrower. If the net operating income of the property is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. Net operating income of an income-producing property can be affected by the risks particular to real property described above, as well as, among other things: • tenant mix; • success of tenant businesses; • property management decisions; • property location and condition; • competition from comparable types of properties; • changes in specific industry segments; • declines in regional or local real estate values, or rental or occupancy rates; and • increases in interest rates, real estate tax rates and other operating expenses. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by us, we will bear a risk of loss of interest and principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the mortgage loan, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow from operations and limit amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. In the event of the bankruptcy of a mortgage loan borrower, the mortgage loan to that borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the 38 Table of Contents mortgage loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law. Foreclosure of a mortgage loan can be an expensive and lengthy process that could have a substantial negative effect on our anticipated return on the foreclosed mortgage loan. CMBS evidence interests in, or are secured by, a single commercial mortgage loan or a pool of commercial mortgage loans. Accordingly, the mortgage backed securities we invest in are subject to all of the risks of the underlying mortgage loans. For our 26 CMBS investments, 21 are investments in conduit issuances between 2004 and 2007 in which JRT owns the first-loss position. For the 21 first-loss CMBS positions which are collateralized by approximately 3,500 loans with an aggregate outstanding balance of approximately $48 billion, the 60 day delinquency rate based on the most recent remittance reports as of December 31, 2007 was 0.27%. Including transfers and returns, subsequent to December 31, 2007, 19 loans totaling approximately $212 million are being managed by the Special Servicer, which is an affiliate of the J.E Robert Company. Of the $212 million of loan balances in special servicing, four loans totaling $51 million are current, one loan totaling $5 million has been foreclosed upon and 14 loans totaling $155 million are delinquent and are in monetary default. The balance of the 15 loans that are either delinquent or have been foreclosed represent approximately 0.33% of the total loan balance collateralizing the 21 related CMBS investments in which the Company has an interest. With respect to our CMBS investments where we are not in the first-loss position, one of our CMBS investments is in a Re-Remic which is collateralized by multiple bond classes from individual securitizations that were issued from 1997 to 2003. As of the most recent remittance report as of December 31, 2007, the total underlying loan pool balance collateralizing the individual securitizations totals approximately $20.6 billion with delinquent loans representing approximately 0.3% of the outstanding pool balance. Three of our CMBS investments are in the BB, BB+ and BBB- classes of trusts issued between 2005 and 2007 and as of the most recent remittance reports as of December 31, 2007, the total outstanding balance of these loan pools serving as collateral for the trusts was approximately $9.6 billion, with delinquent loans representing 34 basis points of the outstanding pool balance. One of our CMBS investments is in the BB- class of a trust that was issued in 1998 and as of the most recent remittance report as of December 31, 2007, the outstanding balance of the loan pool serving as collateral for the trust was approximately $1,290.1 million, with delinquent loans representing 92 basis points of the outstanding pool balance. Our investments in subordinated commercial mortgage backed securities could subject us to increased risk of losses. In general, losses on an asset securing a mortgage loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit provided by the borrower, if any, and then by the “first loss” subordinated security holder. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we may not be able to recover all of our investment in the securities we purchase. In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been overvalued by the originator, or if the values subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related securities, the securities in which we invest may effectively become the “first loss” position behind the more senior securities, which may result in significant losses to us. The prices of lower credit quality securities are generally less sensitive to interest rate changes than more highly rated investments, but more sensitive to adverse economic downturns or individual issuer developments. A projection of or actual economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality securities because the ability of obligors of mortgages underlying mortgage backed securities to make principal and interest payments or to refinance may be impaired. In this case, existing credit support in the securitization structure may be insufficient to protect us against loss of our principal on these securities. As of December 31, 2007, $866.4 million, or approximately 55.9%, of the cost basis of our portfolio consisted of non-investment grade subordinated commercial mortgage backed securities. 39 Table of Contents Investment in non-investment grade CMBS may be illiquid, may have a higher risk of default, and may not produce current returns. The CMBS securities in which we invest are generally non-investment grade, which means that nationally recognized statistical rating organizations rate them below the top four investment-grade rating categories (i.e., “AAA” through “BBB”), and are sometimes referred to as “junk bonds.” Non-investment grade CMBS bonds and preferred shares tend to be less liquid, may have a higher risk of default and may be more difficult to value. Non-investment grade securities usually provide a higher yield than do investment grade securities, but with the higher return comes greater risk of default. In addition, the fair value of these securities may change as interest rates change over time. Economic recessions or downturns may cause defaults or losses on collateral securities to increase. Non-investment grade securities are considered speculative, and their capacity to pay principal and interest in accordance with the terms of their issue is not ensured. Investments in mezzanine loans involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by income producing properties. Investments in mezzanine loans take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests in the entity that directly or indirectly owns the property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than a senior mortgage loan because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In certain cases, borrowers may be able to make an accrual election whereby they forego making cash interest payments in exchange for accruing interest at a higher rate resulting in a mismatch in taxable income, cash flow from operations and cash available for distributions to shareholders. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of the property owning entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt is paid in full. As a result or accrual elections, bankruptcy and borrower defaults, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan to value ratios than conventional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the property and increasing the risk of loss of principal. As of December 31, 2007, $303.2 million, or approximately 19.6%, of the cost basis of our portfolio consisted of mezzanine loans. The B-Notes in which we may invest may be subject to additional risks relating to the privately negotiated structure and terms of the transaction, which may result in losses to us. A B-Note is a mortgage loan typically (i) secured by a first mortgage on a single large commercial property or group of related properties and (ii) subordinated to an A-Note secured by the same first mortgage on the same collateral. As a result, if a borrower defaults, there may not be sufficient funds remaining for B-Note holders after payment to the A-Note holders. B-Notes reflect similar credit risks to comparably rated commercial mortgage backed securities. However, since each transaction is privately negotiated, B-Notes can vary in their structural characteristics and risks. For example, the rights of holders of B-Notes to control the process following a borrower default may be limited in certain investments. We cannot predict the terms of each B-Note investment. The higher risks associated with our subordinate position in our B-Note investments could subject us to increased risk of losses. As of December 31, 2007, we had no B-Note investments. Bridge loans involve a greater risk of loss than traditional mortgage loans. We may provide bridge loans secured by first lien mortgages on a property to borrowers who are typically seeking short-term capital to be used in an acquisition or renovation of real estate. The borrower has usually identified an undervalued asset that has been under-managed or is located in a recovering market. If the market in which the asset is located fails to recover according to the borrower’s projections, or if the borrower fails to improve the quality of the asset’s management or the value of the asset, the borrower may not receive a sufficient return on the asset to satisfy the bridge loan, and we may not recover some or all of our investment. As of December 31, 2007, we had no bridge loan investments. 40 Table of Contents In addition, owners usually borrow funds under a conventional mortgage loan to repay a bridge loan. We may therefore be dependent on a borrower’s ability to obtain permanent financing to repay our bridge loan, which could depend on market conditions and other factors. Bridge loans are also subject to risks of borrower defaults, bankruptcies, fraud, losses and special hazard losses that are not covered by standard hazard insurance. In the event of any default under bridge loans held by us, we bear the risk of loss of principal and non-payment of interest and fees to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the mortgage collateral and the principal amount of the bridge loan. To the extent we suffer such losses with respect to our investments in bridge loans, the value of our company and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Preferred equity investments involve a greater risk of loss than traditional debt financing. We may make preferred equity investments. Preferred equity investments are subordinate to debt financing and are not secured. Should the issuer default on our investment, we would only be able to proceed against the entity that issued the preferred equity in accordance with the terms of the preferred security, and not any property owned by the entity. Furthermore, in the event of bankruptcy or foreclosure, we would only be able to recoup our investment after any lenders to the entity are paid. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment, which could result in losses. As of December 31, 2007, we had no preferred equity investments. Investments in REIT debt securities are subject to specific risks relating to the particular REIT issuer of the securities and to the general risks of investing in subordinated real estate securities, which may result in losses to us. We may invest in REIT debt securities. Investments in REIT debt securities involve special risks relating to the particular REIT issuer of the securities, including the financial condition and business outlook of the issuer. Investments in REIT debt securities are subject to the inherent risks associated with real estate-related investments discussed in this report, including the risks described above with respect to mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities and similar risks, including: • risks of delinquency and foreclosure, and risks of loss in the event thereof; • the dependence upon the successful operation of and net income from real property; • risks generally incident to interests in real property; and • risks specific to the type and use of a particular commercial property. REIT debt securities are generally unsecured and may also be subordinated to other obligations of the issuer. We may also invest in REIT debt securities that are rated non-investment grade. As a result, investments in REIT debt securities are also subject to risks of: • limited liquidity in the secondary trading market; • substantial market price volatility resulting from changes in prevailing interest rates; • subordination to the prior claims of banks and other senior lenders to the issuer; • the operation of mandatory sinking fund or redemption provisions during periods of declining interest rates that could cause the issuer to reinvest premature redemption proceeds in lower yielding assets; • the possibility that earnings of the REIT security issuer may be insufficient to meet its debt service and dividend obligations; • issuer non-compliance with REIT requirements which if not met, may limit cash flow available to the issuer to service our indebtedness; and • the declining creditworthiness and potential for insolvency of the issuer of REIT securities during periods of rising interest rates and economic downturn. 41 Table of Contents These risks may adversely affect the value of outstanding REIT debt securities and the ability of the issuers thereof to repay principal and interest or make dividend payments, which could reduce our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. At December 31, 2007, we had no investments in REIT debt securities. Investments in net lease properties may generate losses. We invest in net leased real estate assets. The value of our investments and the income from our investments in net lease properties will depend upon the ability of the applicable tenant to meet its lease obligations and to maintain the property under the terms of the lease. If a tenant fails to meet its lease obligations or becomes unable to so maintain a property, we will be subject to all risks associated with owning real estate. In addition, under many net leases the owner of the property retains certain obligations with respect to the property, including among other things, the responsibility for maintenance and repair of the property, to provide adequate parking, maintenance of common areas and compliance with other affirmative covenants in the lease. If we were to fail to meet these obligations, the applicable tenant could abate rent or terminate the applicable lease, which may result in a loss of our capital invested in, and anticipated profits from, the property. In addition, we may find it difficult to lease property to new tenants that may have been suited to the particular needs of a former tenant. As of December 31, 2007, $39.6 million, or approximately 2.5%, of the cost basis of our portfolio consisted of investments in joint ventures which owned net leased real estate assets that were master leased to one tenant. We may not have control over certain of our loans and investments. Our ability to manage our portfolio of loans and investments may be limited by the form in which they are made. In certain situations, we or our investment management vehicles may: • acquire investments subject to rights of senior classes and servicers under inter-creditor or servicing agreements; • acquire only a participation in an underlying investment; • co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, thereby acquiring non-controlling interests; or • rely on independent third party management or strategic partners with respect to the management of an asset. Therefore, we may not be able to exercise control over the loan or investment with regards to the potential mismatch of equity in earnings and cash distributions from certain investments. As such, there may be instances whereby earnings from such investments are withheld from distribution to satisfy margin requirements or repurchase securities upon the occurrence of certain events. We may make investments in non-U.S. dollar denominated securities, which subject us to currency rate exposure and the uncertainty of foreign laws and markets. We may purchase CMBS denominated in foreign currencies. We expect that our exposure, if any, would be principally to the British pound and the euro. A change in foreign currency exchange rates may have an adverse impact on returns on our non-dollar denominated investments. Although we may hedge our foreign currency risk, subject to the REIT income qualification tests, we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Investments in foreign countries also subject us to risks of multiple and conflicting tax laws and regulations and political and economic instability abroad, which could adversely affect our receipt of interest income on these investments. At December 31, 2007, we had no investments in non-US dollar denominated securities. 42 Table of Contents Investment in non-conforming and non-investment grade loans may involve increased risk of loss. Except in limited instances, loans we may acquire or originate will not conform to conventional loan standards applied by traditional lenders and will not be rated or will be rated as non-investment grade (for example, for investments rated by Moody’s Investors Service, ratings lower than Baa3, and for Standard & Poor’s, ratings lower than BBB-). The non-investment grade ratings for these loans typically result from the overall leverage of the loans, the lack of a strong operating history for the properties underlying the loans, the borrowers’ credit history, the properties’ underlying cash flow or other factors. As a result, loans we originate or acquire may have a higher risk of default and loss than conventional loans. Any loss we incur may reduce distributions to stockholders and adversely affect the value of our common stock. We currently anticipate investing primarily in unrated or non-investment grade assets. There are no limits on the percentage of unrated or non-investment grade assets we may hold in our portfolio. Credit ratings assigned to our investments are subject to ongoing evaluations and we cannot assure you that the ratings currently assigned to our investments will not be downgraded. Some of our investments are rated by Moody’s Investors Service, Fitch Ratings or Standard & Poor’s, Inc. The credit ratings on these investments are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and we cannot assure you that any such rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant. If rating agencies assign a lower-than-expected rating or reduce, or indicate that they may reduce, their ratings of our investments in the future, the value of these investments could significantly decline, which may have an adverse affect on us. Insurance on mortgage loans and real estate securities collateral may not cover all losses. There are certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, terrorism or acts of war that may be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, including terrorism or acts of war, also might make the insurance proceeds insufficient to repair or replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under these circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected real property. As a result of the events of September 11, 2001, insurance companies are limiting and excluding coverage for acts of terrorism in insurance policies. As a result, we may suffer losses from acts of terrorism that are not covered by insurance. In addition, the mortgage loans that are secured by certain of our properties contain customary covenants, including covenants that require us to maintain property insurance in an amount equal to the replacement cost of the properties. There can be no assurance that the lenders under our mortgage loans will not take the position that exclusions from our coverage for losses due to terrorist acts is a breach of a covenant that, if uncured, could allow the lenders to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of the mortgage loans. Many of our investments are illiquid and we may not be able to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions. The real estate securities that we purchase in connection with privately negotiated transactions are not registered under the relevant securities laws, resulting in a prohibition against their transfer, sale, pledge or other disposition except in a transaction that is exempt from the registration requirements of, or is otherwise in accordance with, those laws. A majority of the mortgage backed securities that we purchase are traded in private, unregistered transactions and are therefore subject to restrictions on resale or otherwise have no established trading market. As a result, our ability to vary our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions may be relatively limited and may, at times, require us to sell such investments at a loss. The B-Notes, mezzanine, bridge and mortgage loans we originate or purchase are particularly illiquid investments due to their short life, their potential unsuitability for securitization and the greater difficulty of recovery in the event of a borrower’s default. 43 Table of Contents Lack of diversification in number of investments increases our dependence on individual investments. Our investment policy allows us to invest up to 20% of our equity in any individual investment unless waived by our board of directors. As a result, our portfolio may be concentrated in a small number of assets, increasing the risk of loss to us and our stockholders if a default or other problem arises. Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the value of our properties or the properties underlying our investments. Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. When we acquire net leased properties directly, there may be environmental problems associated with the property of which we were unaware. The presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect an owner’s ability to sell real estate or borrow using real estate as collateral. To the extent that an owner of a property underlying one of our debt investments becomes liable for removal costs, the ability of the owner to make debt payments to us may be reduced, which in turn may adversely affect the value of the relevant mortgage asset held by us and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs, thus harming our financial condition. In addition, although our leases will generally require our tenants to operate in compliance with all applicable laws and to indemnify us against any environmental liabilities arising from a tenant’s activities on the property, we nonetheless will be subject to strict liability by virtue of our ownership interest for environmental liabilities created by our tenants, and we cannot ensure you that our tenants would satisfy their indemnification obligations under the applicable sales agreement or lease. The discovery of material environmental liabilities attached to our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our targeted investment properties and the properties underlying our investments are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations, which may require us or them to make unintended expenditures that adversely impact their ability to make interest payments to us and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. Any properties we acquire directly, and the properties underlying our investments, are required to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act, or the ADA. The ADA has separate compliance requirements for “public accommodations” and “commercial facilities,” but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. Compliance with the ADA requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in imposition of fines by the U.S. Government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. While the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ADA provisions, and we expect under our leases will be obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected and we could be required to expend our own funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our targeted investment properties and properties underlying our investments. We may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Further, required compliance with these rules and regulations by the owners of the properties underlying our investments may reduce their funds available to make interest payments to us. 44 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic changes in geographic areas where the properties underlying our investments may be concentrated. Adverse conditions in the areas where the properties underlying our investments are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors) and local real estate conditions (such as oversupply of, or reduced demand for, office and industrial properties) may have an adverse effect on the value of our properties. A material decline in the demand or the ability of tenants to pay rent for office and industrial space in these geographic areas may result in a material decline in our cash available for distribution. Risks Relating to Our Management and our Relationship with Our Manager and J.E. Robert Company and its Affiliates We are dependent upon our manager and certain key personnel of J.E. Robert Company provided to us through our manager and may not find a suitable replacement if our manager terminates the management agreement or such key personnel are no longer available to us. Neither we nor our manager have any employees. All of our officers are employees of J.E. Robert Company. We have no separate facilities and are completely reliant on our manager and J.E. Robert Company, which has significant discretion as to the implementation of our operating policies and strategies. Pursuant to a services agreement among us, our manager and J.E. Robert Company, our manager relies on J.E. Robert Company to provide our manager with the personnel, services and resources as needed by our manager to enable it to carry out its obligations and responsibilities under the management agreement. Our manager is not significantly capitalized and does not have its own facilities or employees separate from J.E. Robert Company. Mr. Joseph E. Robert, Jr. is the sole stockholder of J.E. Robert Company as of the date hereof. Mr. Robert beneficially owns a majority of the membership interests of our manager, and as a result, Mr. Robert is in a position to control the policies, decision making and operations of our manager. We are subject to the risk that our manager will terminate the management agreement and that no suitable replacement will be found to manage us. We believe that our success depends, to a significant extent, upon the experience of certain of J.E. Robert Company’s executive officers, whose continued service is not guaranteed. If our manager terminates the management agreement or key officers leave our manager, we may be unable to execute our business plan. There are conflicts of interest in our relationship with J.E. Robert Company and its affiliates, including with our manager, which could result in decisions that are not in the best interests of our stockholders. Our chairman and chief executive officer and two other members of our board of directors and each of our executive officers also serve as officers of our manager and other J.E. Robert Company affiliates. Certain senior officers of J.E. Robert Company, some of whom are also our officers and directors, and their affiliates beneficially own all of the outstanding membership interests of our manager. J.E. Robert Company, and affiliates of J.E. Robert Company currently manage and invest in other real estate-related investment entities. The personnel provided to us through our manager are not required to devote a specific amount of time to our business. At the time of our formation when our management agreement, incentive plan, conflicts policy and other organizational matters were approved for us, Mr. Robert, the sole stockholder of J.E. Robert Company, was our sole stockholder and our sole director. As a result, these matters were not negotiated at arm’s length, and their terms, including fees payable to our manager, may not be as favorable to us as if they had been negotiated with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, we may enter into transactions in the future with J.E. Robert Company and its affiliates that may result in conflicts of interest. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify J.E. Robert Company and our manager and their respective directors and officers with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts not constituting bad faith, willful misconduct, gross negligence, or reckless disregard of their respective duties, performed in good faith in accordance with and pursuant to the management agreement and the related services agreement. 45 Table of Contents The base management fee along with other reimbursements and fees payable to our manager are payable regardless of our performance. We will pay our manager substantial base management fees, based on our equity capital along with other reimbursements and fees regardless of the performance of our portfolio. For example, $1.9 million of base management fees were payable to our manager for the period from inception (April 19, 2004) to December 31, 2004 despite the fact that we experienced a net loss of $5.9 million during the same period. See “The Management Agreement—Management Fees and Incentive Compensation” for a discussion of the management and incentive fee calculations and other reimbursements to our manager. The incentive fee may cause our manager to invest in more risky investments to increase Funds From Operations and thereby increase the incentive fee earned by our manager. Our manager is entitled to receive incentive compensation based upon our achievement of targeted levels of Funds From Operations. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on Funds From Operations may lead our manager to place undue emphasis on the maximization of Funds From Operations at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier or more speculative. This could result in increased risk to the value of our investment portfolio. Termination of our management agreement would be costly. Termination of the management agreement with our manager without cause or non-renewal of the management agreement is costly. The management agreement renews automatically each year and we must give our manager 180 days prior notice of any termination or non-renewal and pay a termination fee, within 90 days of termination, equal to four times the sum of the base management fee and the incentive fee for the 12-month period preceding the date of termination, calculated as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal quarter prior to the date of termination. We also must pay the termination fee if we fail to renew the agreement upon expiration of the initial term or subsequent terms. In addition, following any termination of the management agreement, we must pay our manager all compensation accruing to the date of the termination. These provisions increase the effective cost to us of terminating or electing not to renew the management agreement, thereby adversely affecting our ability to terminate our manager without cause, even if we believe the manager’s performance is not satisfactory. Our investment opportunities may be limited by the conflicts of interest policy of J.E. Robert Company, which manages or co-manages private equity funds with investment objectives that overlap with ours, and by the terms of the US Debt Fund. Our manager is a wholly owned subsidiary of J.E. Robert Company, which also manages other private equity funds through other management companies. Two of these funds, JER Fund IV and the US Debt Fund (for which we serve as co-manager with JER Fund IV), have overlapping investment objectives with us. JER Fund IV invests in a wide range of commercial real estate equity and debt assets, including direct ownership of real estate, non-conduit commercial mortgage backed securities, equity securities, preferred equity and high yield debt (typically with equity participation). The US Debt Fund invests in loans secured, directly or indirectly, by real estate, including B-Notes, mezzanine loans and whole mortgage loans, and also in preferred equity, CMBS and CMBS-related products such as CMBX and credit default swaps (collectively, “Targeted Investments”). We target primarily conduit commercial mortgage backed securities, mezzanine loans, net leased real estate, bridge loans, B-Notes, preferred equity, corporate loans and commercial mortgage loans. Because J.E. Robert Company makes investment decisions for us through our manager and for these other funds through certain of its other subsidiaries, there may be conflicts of interest at J.E. Robert Company as to which investment opportunities are allocated to each of fund. 46 Table of Contents We must abide by the terms of the conflicts of interest policy developed by J.E. Robert Company with respect to conflicts of interest among us, JER Fund IV and the US Debt Fund. To the extent that specific investment opportunities are determined by J.E. Robert Company to be suitable for and advantageous to each of these funds, J.E. Robert Company will allocate the opportunities equally among the funds wherever reasonably practicable. Where J.E. Robert Company determines that an equal allocation is not reasonably practicable (but subject to the required allocation of Targeted Investments to the U.S. Debt Fund under the U.S. Debt Fund Limited Partnership Agreement), it will allocate that investment in a manner that it determines in good faith to be fair and reasonable, including solely to JER Fund IV or the US Debt Fund. Therefore, the J.E. Robert Company conflicts policy may at times prevent us from acquiring a 100% interest or even a partial interest in certain attractive investments. The J.E. Robert Company conflicts policy permits us to own debt securities and loans relating to real estate assets in which JER Fund IV or the U.S. Debt Fund owns an equity position, but in order to prevent different funds managed by J.E. Robert Company from holding opposing interests in a foreclosure or workout, in the event of a default in respect of such debt, all foreclosure and workout decisions are required to be made by a co-investor in such debt that is unaffiliated with the J.E. Robert Company, if there is one, or, if not, then by a servicer unaffiliated with the J.E. Robert Company. Therefore, we may be required to delegate the authority to assert our rights in respect of debt securities or loans relating to real estate in a foreclosure or workout situation to a third party, which would not necessarily have the same interests as us in or be as effective as us at resolving such foreclosure or workout. J.E. Robert Company will apply the foregoing allocation procedures to us and any other investment funds, companies, vehicles or other entities that it controls or manages in the future with which we have overlapping investment objectives. J.E. Robert Company may alter its conflicts of interest policy at any time without notice to or input from us or our stockholders. The conflicts policy may make it difficult for us to avoid the registration requirements of the Investment Company Act or to satisfy the REIT requirements of the tax laws. It may also cause us to forego desirable investment opportunities and may limit our ability to refocus our investment strategy, if required. In addition, the terms of the US Debt Fund prohibit us from investing in Targeted Investments for a period equal to the earlier of (i) April 11, 2008 or (ii) the date at which 90% of the US Debt Fund’s committed capital has been invested or otherwise committed. At March 28, 2008, approximately 28% of the U.S. Debt Fund’s committed capital was invested or otherwise committed. In addition, if the US Debt Fund is not fully invested by April 11, 2008, then for up to the next eight months or until 90% of the US Debt Fund’s committed capital has been invested or otherwise committed, we and/or JER Fund IV will be permitted to share Targeted Investments on a 50%/50% pari-passu basis. Therefore, until December 11, 2008, the terms of the US Debt Fund may cause us to forego desirable investment opportunities and may limit our ability to refocus our investment strategy, if required. We may invest in mortgage loans, mezzanine loans or B-Notes where a JER Fund owns all or a portion of the equity in the underlying borrower, and as a result, we will not have the typical control, approval, consent or other rights we generally obtain in such investments. With the unanimous consent of our independent directors and subject to compliance with certain other internal requirements applicable to these types of affiliate transactions, we may invest in mortgage loans, mezzanine loans or B-Notes where a JER Fund owns all or a portion of the equity in the underlying borrower. In these transactions, we will be deemed an affiliate of the applicable borrower. As such, we will generally not be able to obtain typical control, approval, consent or other rights with respect to certain material matters such as loan modifications, forgiveness of debt or foreclosure. These control, approval, consent and other rights will instead be exercised by a third party co-investor, which may result in recoveries by us that are less than what we would realize in the event we had our typical control, approval, consent and other rights. 47 Table of Contents Mr. Joseph E. Robert, Jr. has significant control over our company and will influence decisions regarding our operations and our business. Mr. Joseph Robert, Jr. is our chairman and chief executive officer and the chairman and chief executive officer of our manager. As of the date hereof, Mr. Robert beneficially owns a majority of the membership interests of our manager and approximately 9.6% of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Robert has significant control over us, particularly our management. Mr. Robert may exercise his influence over us and make decisions with which you may disagree. Our board of directors has approved very broad investment guidelines for our manager and does not approve each investment decision made by our manager. Our manager is authorized to follow very broad investment guidelines. Our directors will periodically review our investment guidelines and our investment portfolio. However, our board does not review each proposed investment. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, the directors will rely primarily on information provided to them by our manager. Furthermore, transactions entered into by our manager may be difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by the directors. Our manager has great latitude within the broad investment guidelines in determining the types of assets it may decide are proper investments for us. We may change our investment strategy without stockholder consent, which may result in riskier investments. We may change our investment strategy at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described in this report. A change in our investment strategy may also increase our exposure to interest rate, credit market and real estate market fluctuations. We may change our operational policies without stockholder consent, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our board of directors determines our operational policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our REIT status, acquisitions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our stockholders. Operational policy changes could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Maryland takeover statutes may prevent or make difficult a change of control of our company that could be in the interests of our stockholders. Under Maryland law, “business combinations” between a Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested stockholder is defined as: • any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation’s shares; or • an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. 48 Table of Contents A person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approved in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: • 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single voting group; and • two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of a corporation and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for the common stock of that corporation or otherwise be in the interest of the stockholders of that corporation. We have exempted by charter provision all business combinations from the application of this statute and consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements described above will not apply to any business combination between any other party and us. However, we may, by charter amendment approved by our board of directors and our stockholders, opt into the business combination provisions of Maryland law in the future. We also have opted out of the “control share” provisions of Maryland law that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares that, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. However, we may, by amendment to our by-laws, opt in to the control share provisions of Maryland law in the future without stockholder approval, which could inhibit a third party from making or completing an acquisition of us that is in the interests of our stockholders. Our authorized but unissued common and preferred stock may prevent a change in our control. Our charter authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board may issue additional common and preferred shares and may establish a series of preferred stock with terms that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. The requirements of the Investment Company Act impose limits on our operations. We conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which we refer to as the Investment Company Act. We are not subject to regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act because we do not meet the definition of an investment company under the Investment Company Act, including Section 3(a)(1)(C). From time to time in the past, and in the future we may, have relied on, and certain of our subsidiaries may from time to time rely on, the exclusion from investment company status provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act (and Section 3(c)(6) if, from time to time, we engaged in our real estate business through one or more majority-owned subsidiaries). 49 Table of Contents The assets that we acquire, therefore, are limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations promulgated under the Investment Company Act. If we were deemed to be an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act and could not rely on any exemption or exclusion under the Investment Company Act, we would be subject to regulation as an investment company. This risk is greater to the extent that we invest in pools of CMBS that contain some real estate related notes. The characterization of us as an investment company would require us to either (i) change the manner in which we conduct our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company or (ii) to register as an investment company. We cannot assure you that we would be able to complete any required dispositions or acquisitions of assets, or deleveraging, on favorable terms, or at all. Consequently, any modification of our business plan, including selling certain investments necessary to repay amounts outstanding under our repurchase agreements or provide us with additional liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain our investment company exemption. Further, if we were determined to be an unregistered investment company, we would be subject to monetary penalties and injunctive relief in an action brought by the SEC, we may be unable to enforce contracts with third parties and third parties could seek to obtain rescission of transactions undertaken during the period it was established that we were an unregistered investment company. Finally, because affiliate transactions are prohibited under the Investment Company Act, failure to maintain our exemption would force us to terminate our management agreement, services agreement and all other agreements with affiliates. Any of these results would be likely to have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial results and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. We are in the process of applying for no-action relief with respect to the characterization of certain of our assets as qualifying real estate assets for purposes of the requirements of Section 3(c)(5)(C). We cannot assure you that such no-action relief will be granted or that it will be granted on the terms requested. See “Operating Policies and Strategies—Investment Company Act Considerations” in this report. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interests. Under Maryland law generally, a director’s actions will be upheld if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter authorizes us to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. In addition, our charter limits the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for money damages, except for liability resulting from: • actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or • active and deliberate dishonesty by the director or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist. Our by-laws require us to indemnify each director or officer who has been successful, on the merits or otherwise, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. Our charter contains provisions that make removal of our directors difficult, which could make it difficult for our stockholders to effect changes to our management. Our charter provides that a director may only be removed with cause upon the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast in the election of directors. Vacancies may be filled by the board of directors. This requirement makes it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing directors and may prevent changes in control of our company that are in the interest of our stockholders. 50 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for distribution to our stockholders. We operate in a manner intended to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not intend to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) as to our REIT status, in April 2007, we received the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP with respect to our qualification as a REIT. Investors should be aware, however, that opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or any court. The opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP represents only the view of our counsel based on our counsel’s review and analysis of existing law and on certain representations as to factual matters and covenants made by us and our manager, including representations relating to the values of our assets and the sources of our income. The opinion is expressed as of the date issued and will not cover subsequent periods. Counsel has no obligation to advise us or the holders of our common stock of any subsequent change in the matters stated, represented or assumed, or of any subsequent change in applicable law. Furthermore, both the validity of the opinion of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP, and our continued qualification as a REIT will depend on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, stockholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis, the results of which will not be monitored by Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the fair market values of our assets, some of which are not susceptible to a precise determination, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT income and quarterly asset requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our income and assets on an ongoing basis. Moreover, the proper classification of an instrument as debt or equity for federal income tax purposes, and the tax treatment of participation interests that we hold in mortgage loans and mezzanine loans, may be uncertain in some circumstances, which could affect the application of the REIT qualification requirements as described below. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend that our interests in subsidiaries or other issuers will not cause a violation of the REIT requirements. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, we would be subject to federal income tax, including any applicable alternative minimum tax, on our taxable income at regular corporate rates, and distributions to stockholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our stockholders, which in turn could have an adverse impact on the value of our common stock. Unless entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT. Dividends payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates under recently enacted tax legislation. Legislation enacted in 2003, as amended, generally reduces the maximum tax rate for dividends payable to domestic stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates from 38.6% to 15% (through 2010). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. Although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity position and ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding any net capital gain, in order for corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible 51 Table of Contents excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our stockholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets or borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis to meet the 90% distribution requirement of the Internal Revenue Code. Certain of our assets may generate substantial mismatches between taxable income and available cash. For example, in 2007, estimated taxable income exceeded GAAP net income by approximately $40.5 million and net cash provided by operating activities (per our statement of cash flows) by approximately $18.8 million. As a result, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our net taxable income could cause us to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms or (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt, in order to comply with REIT requirements. In addition, any capital losses related to the sales of our investments may not reduce ordinary taxable income and corresponding distribution requirements to shareholders. Capital losses may only be used to offset capital gains; however, such capital losses may be carried forward to future years to offset future capital gains. The stock ownership limit imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and our charter may restrict our business combination opportunities. In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year following our first year. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, no person may own more than 9.8% of the aggregate value of our outstanding capital stock following the completion of this offering. Our board may grant an exemption in its sole discretion, subject to such conditions, representations and undertakings as it may determine. The ownership limits imposed by the tax law are based upon direct or indirect ownership by “individuals,” but only during the last half of a tax year. The ownership limits contained in our charter key off of the ownership at any time by any “person,” which term includes entities. These ownership limitations in our charter are common in REIT charters and are intended to provide added assurance of compliance with the tax law requirements, and to minimize administrative burdens. However, these ownership limits might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Even if we remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, tax on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our stockholders. In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets through taxable subsidiary corporations. Such subsidiaries will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our stock. We may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments. 52 Table of Contents Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To qualify as a REIT, we must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets, including certain mortgage loans and mortgage backed securities. The remainder of our investment in securities (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 20% of the value of our total securities can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. As a result, we may be required to liquidate from our portfolio otherwise attractive investments. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Liquidation of assets may jeopardize our REIT status. To continue to qualify as a REIT, we must comply with requirements regarding our assets and our sources of income. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments to repay obligations to our lenders, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our status as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively. The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our operations. Under current law, any income that we generate from derivatives or other transactions intended to hedge our interest rate or foreign currency risks will generally constitute income that does not qualify for purposes of the 75% income requirement applicable to REITs, and will also be treated as nonqualifying income for purposes of the REIT 95% income test unless specified requirements are met. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous, which could result in greater risks associated with interest rate or other changes in hedged items than we would otherwise incur. The “taxable mortgage pool” rules may increase the taxes that we or our stockholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations. Certain of our securitizations have resulted in the creation of taxable mortgage pools for federal income tax purposes. As a REIT, so long as we own 100% of the equity interests in a taxable mortgage pool, we generally would not be adversely affected by the characterization of the securitization as a taxable mortgage pool. Certain categories of stockholders, however, such as foreign stockholders eligible for treaty or other benefits, stockholders with net operating losses, and certain tax-exempt stockholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income from us that is attributable to the taxable mortgage pool. In addition, to the extent that our stock is owned by tax-exempt “disqualified organizations,” such as certain government-related entities and charitable remainder trusts that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, we may incur a corporate level tax on a portion of our income from the taxable mortgage pool. In that case, we may reduce the amount of our distributions to any disqualified organization whose stock ownership gave rise to the tax. Moreover, we would be precluded from selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. These limitations may prevent us from using certain techniques to maximize our returns from securitization transactions. 53 Table of Contents The tax on prohibited transactions will limit our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing mortgage loans, which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including mortgage loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We might be subject to this tax if we were to dispose of or securitize loans in a manner that was treated as a sale of the loans for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of loans at the REIT level, and may limit the structures we utilize for our securitization transactions, even though the sales or structures might otherwise be beneficial to us. Risks Related to Trading of our Common Stock The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. On July 13, 2005, we completed an initial public offering of our common stock, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. While there has been active trading in our common stock since the initial public offering, we cannot assure you that an active trading market in our common stock will be sustained. Even if an active trading market for our common stock continues, the market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and be subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the purchase price you paid to acquire them. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common shares include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results or dividends; • changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates or publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry; • increases in market interest rates or credit spreads that lead purchasers of our shares to demand a higher yield; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; for example, although we do not currently invest in the sub-prime residential mortgage market, recent events in this market could adversely impact, among other items, the value of our stock, our ability to borrow monies, our liquidity, the overall mortgage lending market and the value of our assets; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we incur in the future; • additions or departures of key management personnel; • actions by institutional stockholders; • speculation in the press or investment community; • application and interpretation of the rules and regulations of the Investment Company Act; and • general market and economic conditions. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level and we cannot assure you of our ability to make distributions in the future. We expect to make quarterly distributions to our stockholders in amounts such that we distribute all or substantially all of our taxable income in each year, subject to certain adjustments. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risk factors described in this report, including the possibility of a downturn in our operating results and financial 54 Table of Contents performance, lack of liquidity or a decline in the value of our asset portfolio. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings and cash flow, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We may not be able to make distributions in the future. In addition, some of our distributions may include a return of capital. To the extent that we decide to make distributions in excess of taxable income, such distributions would generally be considered a return of capital for federal income tax purposes. An increase in market interest rates may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. One of the factors that investors may consider in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of our common stock is our distribution rate as a percentage of our share price relative to market interest rates. If the market price of our common stock is based primarily on the earnings and return that we derive from our investments and income with respect to our properties and our related distributions to stockholders, and not from the market value or underlying appraised value of the properties or investments themselves, then interest rate fluctuations and capital market conditions will likely affect the market price of our common stock. For instance, if market rates rise without an increase in our distribution rate, the market price of our common stock could decrease as potential investors may require a higher distribution yield on our common stock or seek other securities paying higher distributions or interest. In addition, rising interest rates would result in increased interest expense on our variable rate debt, thereby adversely affecting cash flow and our ability to service our indebtedness and pay distributions. 55 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 