D. Risk Factors RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY Risks Related to Our Wireless Value-added Services We depend on China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom, the three principal telecommunications network operators in China, for the major portion of our revenue, and any loss or deterioration of our relationship with China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom, due to the recent government imposed restructurings or otherwise, may result in severe disruptions to our business operations and the loss of a major portion of our revenue. We offer our services over mobile networks to consumers through the three principal telecom operators in China, China Mobile Communications Corporation, or China Mobile, China United Telecommunications Corporation, or China Unicom, and China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom. These principal operators service the major portion of China’s approximately 641 million mobile phone subscribers as of December 31, 2008, according to a December 2008 Report issued by China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT. Our agreements with these operators and their provincial affiliates are non-exclusive and have a limited term (generally one year for China Mobile and one or two years for China Unicom). We usually renew these agreements or enter into new ones when the prior agreements expire, but on occasion the renewal or new agreements can be delayed by periods of one month or more. China Telecom and its provincial affiliates have recently entered into new agreements with us in connection with the network assets that they acquired from China Unicom (as discussed below). If any of China Mobile, China Unicom or China Telecom ceases to continue to cooperate with us, it would be impossible to find appropriate replacement telecom operators with the requisite licenses and permits, infrastructure and customer base to offer our wireless value-added services (“WVAS”). We derived approximately 57% of our combined WVAS revenue from China Mobile, 25% from China Unicom, and 12% from China Telecom in 2008. 7 Table of Contents In addition, the Chinese government has extensive involvement in determining the structure of the telecommunications industry in China. During the development of this industry, changes in government policy have resulted in major restructurings of the telecommunications operators, including the establishment of new operators and the combination of all or part of existing operators. In an effort to promote greater competition among the telecommunications operators and foster the development of 3G mobile networks, on May 24, 2008, the MIIT, the PRC National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, and the PRC Ministry of Finance jointly issued the Notice on Strengthening the Reform of Telecommunications Systems, or the Telecom Notice, which aims to consolidate China’s existing telecommunication operators into three new telecommunications operators that can offer both mobile and fixed-line services. Under the Telecom Notice, China Mobile merged with China Railway Communication Co., Ltd., which operated a national fixed-line network, China Telecom acquired the Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) wireless business and network from China Unicom, and China Unicom, which operates a Global System for Mobile communications (GSM) network and business, merged with China Netcom, which was principally a fixed-line operator. Due to the restructuring, our services to China Telecom have increased and our services to China Unicom have decreased beginning from October 1, 2008, the date that China Telecom officially acquired the CDMA wireless business and network from China Unicom. On January 7, 2009, the MIIT issued 3G licenses to China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom. China Mobile is expected to operate the TD-SCDMA network, China’s self-developed 3G standard, China Unicom is licensed to run WCDMA, a 3G standard originally developed in Europe, and China Telecom is expected to operate CDMA2000, a 3G standard originally developed in U.S. We are currently assessing the potential impact of such consolidations on our business. Any future significant restructuring of any segment of the telecommunications industry in China, including in particular China Mobile, China Unicom or China Telecom (which are collectively referred to hereinafter in this annual report on Form 20-F as the “telecom operators”) or any other telecom operators in China and the potential combination of the mobile operations of various telecom operators in China, could significantly affect our relationships with these telecom operators, our operations and our revenues. Due to our reliance on the telecom operators for our WVAS, any loss or deterioration of our relationships with them, due to their own business decisions or government-imposed restructurings, may result in severe disruptions to our business operations and the loss of a major portion of our revenue. We incurred net losses in 2007, 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 and may incur additional losses in future periods. We incurred net losses in 2007, 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 primarily as a result of changes in the telecom operator policies and the manner in which they are enforced and intense market competition in the WVAS and music industries. In light of this, we have recently been implementing certain cost control measures, however, we cannot be certain that these measures will be effective and we will be able to return to profitability. In addition, we could continue to incur net losses in the future due to changes in the market, operating environment and competitive dynamics and our ability to respond to those changes, as well as any possible new strategic initiatives launched by our company. If we do not restore profitability, the market price of our ADSs may decline. The termination or alteration of our various agreements with the telecom operators and their provincial affiliates would materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability. Given the dominant market position of China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom, our leverage with these telecom operators is limited in terms of negotiating agreements, resolving disputes or otherwise. In particular, our agreements with them can be terminated in advance, penalties may be imposed or other parts of our services may be suspended or terminated, and approval for our new services may be delayed for a variety of reasons which vary among the individual agreements with the telecom operators, including, for example, where we breach our obligations under the agreements, a high number of customer complaints are made about our services or we cannot satisfy the operational or financial performance criteria established by the applicable mobile operator. We may also be compelled to alter our agreements with these telecom operators in ways which adversely affect our business, such as by limiting the services we can offer or imposing other changes that limit the revenue we can derive from such agreements. In the past, telecom operators have entered into new contracts in certain provinces with service providers in which it changed the share percentages it retained for customer payments. The percentage of the payments from customers received by service providers has been decreasing since 2006. Subsequently, the share percentage of customer payments that service providers received from the telecom operators has decreased by a range of 5% to 10%. We may not be able to adequately respond to any such changes because we are not able to predict if the telecom operators will unilaterally amend our contracts with them. 8 Table of Contents Unilateral changes in the policies of the MIIT and the telecom operators and in their enforcement of their policies have resulted in service suspensions and our having to pay additional charges to the telecom operators, and further changes could materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability in the future. The MIIT and the telecom operators have a wide range of policies and procedures regarding customer service, quality control and other aspects of the WVAS industry. As the industry has evolved over the last several years, the telecom operators have refined these policies to improve overall service quality and increase customer satisfaction. For example, in July 2006, China Mobile introduced new policies which require extended free trial periods for WVAS, new billing reminders for new and existing monthly subscribers and positive user confirmations for conversion of per-message subscriptions to monthly subscriptions. Subsequently, in May 2007, China Mobile began the operational practice of displaying service fee reminders and seeking express confirmation prior to processing the wireless application protocol (“WAP”) page download requests of mobile phone users. China Mobile also began the practice of only including links to its own WVAS offerings on the embedded menus of certain mobile handsets with customized software for China Mobile users. In the past, such embedded menus featured links to all popular products offered on China Mobile’s networks, including our products. In August 2007, MIIT introduced new policies regarding WVAS that mobile phone users subscribe to on a free trial basis. Service providers are now required to notify such mobile phone users once the free trial period ends and must obtain confirmation from them prior to charging them for continued subscription to the services. Upon obtaining such confirmation, service providers are then required to notify mobile phone users of the exact pricing for such service and send billing reminders to them. In addition, in the last several years, acting under the guidance of the MIIT, the telecom operators have begun enforcing their customer service policies more rigorously than in the past and have initiated steps to improve customer service. This rigorous enforcement has resulted in a number of severe penalties imposed on us and other participants in the market in recent years. Penalties have included precluding service providers from offering certain services over a mobile operator’s network or from offering new services for a fixed period. We may not be able to adequately respond to these or other developments in mobile operator policies, or changes in the manner in which such policies are enforced. Furthermore, because the telecom operators’ policies are in a state of flux at this time and they are highly sensitive to customer complaints (even if the complaints have no merit), we cannot be certain that our business activities will always be deemed in compliance with those policies despite our efforts to so comply. Accordingly, we may be subject to monetary penalties or service suspensions or both, even for conduct which we believed to be permissible. Any future noncompliance with the telecom operators’ policies by us, whether inadvertent or not, could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Our 2.5G revenues were negatively affected in 2008 by the delayed expansion of 2.5G mobile networks by the telecom operators. If this trend continues our revenue and profitability could be further materially and adversely affected. Revenues from 2.5G WVAS declined from $17.4 million for fiscal year 2007 to $11.3 million for fiscal year 2008, representing a decline of 35.1%. Our 2.5G value-added services declined in part because of the telecom operators’ decision to delay expanding capacity or building out 2.5G mobile networks as they awaited the issuance of 3G licenses. If this market does not grow and evolve in the manner or in the timeframe that we anticipate, we may not be able to generate significant sustainable revenues from our 2.5G business. The Chinese government and the telecom operators may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that any of them believe is inappropriate. China has enacted regulations governing telecommunication service providers, Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believes to violate Chinese law, including content that is pornographic or obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom also have their own policies regarding the distribution of inappropriate content by WVAS providers and have punished certain providers for distributing inappropriate content through the imposition of fines and service suspensions. Some of those providers indicated that the telecom operators informed them that certain of their content were construed as too adult-oriented or sexually suggestive. The determination of whether or not WVAS content is appropriate is inherently subjective, and is subject to the interpretation of the governmental authorities and telecom operators in China. Their standards are generally more restrictive than those applied in many other countries like the United States. Accordingly, while we intend to comply with all applicable rules regarding wireless content, it may be very difficult for us to assess whether any particular content we offer that could be construed by the telecom operators as inappropriate under current regulations in China. Any penalties imposed on us by the telecom operators for the content of our services could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and reputation. 9 Table of Contents The telecom operators may impose higher service or network fees on us for their own business purposes or if we are unable to satisfy customer usage and other performance criteria, which could reduce our gross margins. Fees for our WVAS are charged on a monthly subscription or per-use basis. As provided in our network service agreements, we rely on the telecom operators for both billing of and collection from, mobile phone users of fees for our services. As noted above under “— The termination or alteration of our various agreements with the telecom operators and their provincial affiliates would materially and adversely impact our revenue and profitability,” our negotiating leverage with the telecom operators is limited. As a result, the telecom operators could for their own business purposes unilaterally amend our agreements with them to increase the service or network fees that they retain from the revenues generated by our WVAS. In addition, under these agreements, these service fees in some cases rise if we fail to meet certain customer usage, revenues and other performance criteria. Moreover, for 2G services, to the extent that the number of messages sent by us over networks of the telecom operators exceeds the number of messages our customers send to us, we must pay per message network fees, which decrease in several provinces as the volume of customer usage of our services increases. The number of messages sent by us will exceed those sent by our users, for example, if a user sends us a single message to order a game but we in turn must send that user several messages to confirm his or her order and deliver the game itself. We cannot be certain that we will be able to satisfy any performance criteria in the future or that the telecom operators will keep the criteria at their current levels. Any increase in the service or network fees of the telecom operators could reduce our gross margins. If any of the telecom operators change their practices with regard to how service selections appear on their WAP portals, the revenue from our services, and thus our overall financial condition, could be materially and adversely affected. The current practice of the telecom operators is generally to place the most popular WAP services at the top of the menu on the first page of the list of services available in each service category on their WAP portals. Services at the top of the menu are more accessible to users than other services and, in our experience, are more frequently accessed than those services lower on the menu. This effectively reinforces the position of the most popular services. The placement of services on these menus creates significant competitive advantages for the top-ranked services and significant challenges for newer and less popular services. We believe that our prominent position on the WAP portals of the telecom operators historically helped us maintain our position in the market. If any of the telecom operators changes its current practices so that the most popular services are not those that are the most accessible to customers, restricts the number or type of services a service provider is permitted to place on service menus or adopts new interface technologies that eliminate the current service menus, our services could become more difficult for users to access and could, therefore, become less popular. In addition, as discussed below under the heading “—Our revenue from WVAS may be adversely affected by the telecom operators providing their own full portfolio of 2G, 2.5G and any upcoming 3G services that compete with our services,” China Mobile also began the practice of only including links to its own WVAS offerings on the embedded menus of mobile handsets with customized software for China Mobile users while excluding links to products from third party WVAS service providers such as our company. This practice has adversely affected our revenues. If additional similar changes occur, they will likely materially and adversely affect the revenue from our services, and thus our overall financial condition. Our revenue from WVAS may be adversely affected by the telecom operators providing their own full portfolio of 2G , 2.5G and any upcoming 3G services that compete with our services. In 2006, China Mobile began operating its own music WAP portal and procuring music content from music companies directly. Our revenues as a service provider have been adversely affected by this development, although some of this effect has been mitigated by China Mobile procuring music content from our affiliated music companies. China Mobile also began the practice of only including links to its own WVAS offerings on the embedded menus of mobile handsets with customized software for China Mobile users while excluding links to products from third party WVAS service providers like us. Such practice has adversely affected our revenues. Our business would likely be adversely affected if any of the telecom operators decide to provide additional 2G, 2.5G and any upcoming 3G services to mobile phone users, which compete with our services. In that case, we would not only face enhanced competition, but could be partially or completely denied access to the networks of these telecom operators which would adversely affect our revenue from WVAS. 10 Table of Contents The popularity of our WVAS services, and therefore revenues from these services and our profitability, would be adversely affected if our competitors offer more attractive and engaging services or we are unsuccessful in developing and offering attractive and engaging services on 3G mobile networks, which are in the process of being launched. The WVAS market is highly competitive, and our competitors may offer new or different services, which are more popular than our 2G and 2.5G services. Moreover, we cannot be certain that we will successfully develop and sell popular services on 3G mobile networks, which are in the process of being launched, following MIIT’s grant of licenses to the telecom operators in January 2009. Although we plan to transition our 2.5G services to 3G services as the 3G mobile networks are launched, it is difficult to predict the development of new mobile technologies or the types of services that will be popular on any new mobile networks. The telecom operators allow us to offer our services over their networks only if we achieve minimum customer usage, revenues and other criteria, and our revenues from 2.5G services depend in particular on our ability to meet those criteria to keep our services among the most popular offered through the telecom operators. If we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenues and other criteria imposed by the telecom operators at their discretion from time to time, our services could be excluded from the applicable mobile operator’s entire network at a provincial or national level, or we could be prevented from introducing new services. In addition, we believe that the success of our 2.5G services depends significantly on whether our services appear at the top of the menu on the first page of the list of services available in each service category on the telecom operators’ WAP portals. The ranking of services on these WAP page menus depends on the satisfaction of performance criteria established by the telecom operators from time to time. If we are excluded from any mobile operator’s network or are not able to keep our 2.5G services at the top of the service lists on any mobile operator’s WAP pages due to performance problems, our WVAS revenue would be substantially reduced, which would materially and adversely affect our overall financial condition and the market price of our ADSs. We must rely on the telecom operators to maintain accurate records of fees paid by users of our services, deduct service and network fees due to them and pay us fees due to us. Errors in record-keeping by the telecom operators could adversely affect our profitability and the market price of our ADSs. We must rely on the telecom operators to maintain accurate records of the fees paid by users and deduct the service and network fees due to them under our network service agreements. Specifically, the telecom operators provide us with monthly statements for our 2G services that do not provide itemized information regarding amounts paid for each of our services or calculations of the service and network fees. As a result, monthly statements that we have received from the telecom operators for our 2G services cannot be reconciled to our own internal records for the reasons discussed under “— The telecom operators do not supply us with detailed information on billing and transmission failures, revenues, service or network fees or other charges, particularly with respect to our 2G services, and accordingly, it is difficult to analyze the factors affecting our financial performance.” In addition, we have only limited means to independently verify the information provided to us with respect to such 2G services because we do not have access to the telecom operators’ internal records. Rather, we can only seek consultations with the telecom operators to discuss the reasons for any discrepancies. With respect to our 2.5G services, the telecom operators allow us limited access to their transmission and billing system information to monitor if our services are actually delivered and paid for, which information we then reconcile to our own internal records. In addition, the telecom operators in general provide us with monthly statements within two to three weeks after month end. However, the statements can be delayed by periods of four months or more. As discussed below in Item 5.A. “Operating Results —Factors Affecting Results of Operations and Financial Condition”, discrepancies between our internal records and the telecom operators’ confirmations have been significant in 2008. Nonetheless, we are still ultimately dependent on the ability of the telecom operators’ systems to accurately collect and analyze the relevant transmission and payment data regarding our services. Because of the dominant market position of these telecom operators, we have limited leverage in challenging any discrepancies between their monthly statements and 2.5G system information, on the one hand, and our own records, on the other hand. Our profitability and the market price of our ADSs could be adversely affected if these telecom operators miscalculate the revenues generated from our services and our portion of those revenues. Our dependence on the billing records of the telecom operators may adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report revenue and other information regarding our WVAS. Any inaccuracies in our records and public reports could adversely affect our ability to effectively manage our business and the market price of our ADSs. We maintain controls and procedures to ensure that financial and non-financial information regarding our business is recorded, processed, summarized and reported in a timely and accurate manner. However, as noted in the prior risk factor, we depend on the billing records of the telecom operators and have only limited means to independently verify information provided by them. If the information they provide us is incorrect or incomplete, then our own internal records will also be incorrect or incomplete. Our business could be adversely affected if our management and board of directors make decisions based on deficient internal information, such as strategic initiatives involving new WVAS. Moreover, it is possible that, if information provided to us by the telecom operators were not correct or complete, our public reports could also be deficient, which could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. 11 Table of Contents We recognize revenue for a portion of our 2G services on an accrual basis, based on an internal estimation process which involves the use of estimates of monthly revenues to the extent we are unable to obtain actual figures from the telecom operators before we finalize our financial statements, which could in turn require us to make adjustments to our financial statements. We recognize revenue for a portion of our 2G services (as well as for a smaller portion of our 2.5G services) on an accrual basis in order to report our quarterly earnings on a timely basis. This involves the use of estimates of monthly revenues based on our internal records for the month and prior monthly confirmation rates with the telecom operators in prior months if we are unable to obtain actual figures from the telecom operators before we finalize our financial statements. We expect the effect of these estimates on our financial results will be more significant on our quarterly results of operations than on our annual results, as we are less likely to receive confirmation on all of our 2G revenues before we disclose our quarterly results. To the extent that our revenues have not been confirmed by the telecom operators for any reporting period, we will need to adjust our revenues in the subsequent periods in which these revenues are confirmed. Actual revenues may differ from prior estimates when unexpected variations in billing and transmission failures occur. Recognizing revenues on an accrual basis could potentially require us to later make adjustments to our financial statements if the telecom operators’ billing statements and cash payments are different from our estimates, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market price of our ADSs. Our revenues and cost of revenues for 2G services, and to a lesser degree 2.5G services, are affected by billing and transmission failures and other discrepancies which are often beyond our control. We do not collect fees for our services from the telecom operators in a number of circumstances, including if: • the delivery of our service to a customer is prevented because his or her phone is turned off for an extended period of time, the customer’s prepaid phone card has run out of value or the customer has ceased to be a customer of the applicable mobile operator; • any telecom operator experiences technical problems with its network, thus preventing the delivery of our services to the customer; • we experience technical problems with our technology platform that prevents delivery of our services; or • the customer refuses to pay for our services due to quality or other problems. These situations are known in the industry as billing and transmission failures, and we do not recognize any revenues for services which are characterized as billing and transmission failures. Billing and transmission failures therefore significantly lower the revenues we record. The failure rate for 2G services can vary among the telecom operators, and by province, and has fluctuated significantly in the past, ranging from 0.0% to 19.1% of the total billable messages on a monthly basis as reflected in our internal records during 2008. The failure rate increased in 2008 compared to prior year due to the restructuring of the telecom operators. Although we do not experience the same type of billing and transmission failures for our 2.5G services as we do for our 2G services, we do experience a discrepancy between the revenues recorded by our internal system and the revenues confirmed by the telecom operators. This difference ranged from 0.4% to 27.5% per month and relates to services that are provided but are not billed to the user for a variety of reasons associated with the manner in which the telecom operators register new users and manage their internal billing reconciliation process. As discussed below in Item 5.A. “Operating Results —Factors Affecting Results of Operations and Financial Condition”, these discrepancies increased in 2008 due to the restructuring of the telecom operators. We are also required to pay some of our content providers a percentage of the revenues received from or confirmed by the telecom operators with respect to services incorporating the content providers’ products. In calculating the fees payable to these providers, we make estimates to take into account billing and transmission failures, which may have been applicable to the services incorporating the providers’ products, and reduce the fees payable by us accordingly. Nonetheless, as estimates involve making assumptions which may prove inaccurate, we have in the past paid, and may continue to pay, such providers fees which are disproportionate to what we have been paid for the relevant service. Our costs of services, gross margins and profitability could be adversely affected if, due to problems in estimating billing and transmission failures, we overpay service providers on a consistent and continuous basis. 12 Table of Contents The telecom operators do not supply us with detailed information on billing and transmission failures, revenues, service and network fees or other charges, particularly with respect to our 2G services, and accordingly it is difficult to analyze the factors affecting our financial performance. The telecom operators’ monthly statements to service providers, including our company, regarding the services provided through their networks currently do not contain information about billing and transmission failures, revenues, service and network fees or other charges or detailed information on a service-by-service basis, particularly with respect to our 2G services. While the telecom operators allow third party service providers such as our company to have access to their 2.5G transmission and billing systems, such access is limited and does not offer complete information on all fee calculations and other charges. Moreover, China Mobile and China Unicom have from time to time imposed penalty charges and service suspensions on us when they believe we have contravened their customer service policies. The information provided by the telecom operators does not, however, identify exactly which services caused the problem or the time period in which they occurred. As a result of the foregoing, we are unable to effectively analyze the factors that affect our financial performance and can only estimate our revenues and cost of revenues by service type. We are also unable to confirm which of our 2G services were transmitted but resulted in billing and transmission failures. As a result, with respect to specific services, we are not able to definitively calculate and monitor revenues, margin and other financial information, such as average revenues per-user by service and total revenues per-user by service, and also cannot definitively determine which of these services are or may be profitable. Moreover, we do not know what adjustments, if any, should be made with respect to specific services to avoid inadvertent violations of the telecom operators’ customer service policies. The services we offer and the prices we charge are subject to approval by the telecom operators, and if requested approvals are not granted in a timely manner or approved services are suspended or terminated, our competitive position, revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. We must obtain approval from China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom with respect to each 2G, 2.5G and any upcoming 3G service that we propose to offer to their customers and the pricing for such service. In addition, any changes in the pricing of our existing services must be approved in advance by these operators. There can be no assurance that such approvals will be granted in a timely manner or at all. Failure to obtain, or a delay in, obtaining such approvals could place us at a competitive disadvantage in the market and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, the recent more rigorous enforcement of customer service policies by the telecom operators could result in heightened scrutiny of our existing or proposed services and pricing by the telecom operators. This could, in turn, result in delays in their approving new services, our failure to obtain approval for new services or suspensions or termination of all or part of our existing services or reductions in approved pricing of our services. The occurrence of any of these actions could materially and adversely affect our revenues. Risks Related to Our Music Business The businesses of our affiliated music companies are subject to constantly changing consumer tastes. In order to implement our strategy to enter the music development, production and distribution and artist development industries, we formed an affiliated Chinese entity, Hurray! Digital Media, and established a new wholly owned Cayman Islands subsidiary, Hurray! Music Holding Co., Ltd. in 2005, whose name was changed to Hurray! Media Co., Ltd. (“Hurray! Media”). As part of our strategy to grow through opportunistic acquisitions and strategic investments, we have acquired, in recent years, equity interests in Hurray! Freeland Digital Music Technology Co., Ltd. (“Freeland Music”), Beijing Huayi Brothers Music Co., Ltd. (“Huayi Brothers Music”), Beijing New Run Entertainment Development Co., Ltd. (“New Run”), Guangzhou Hurray! Secular Bird Culture Communication Co., Ltd. (“Secular Bird”), Seed Music Group Limited (“Seed Music Group”) and Beijing Hurray! Fly Songs International Culture Co., Ltd. (“Fly Songs”), which we refer to collectively as our affiliated music companies in this annual report on Form 20-F. The first five of the foregoing companies engage in artist development and music production and distribution in Mainland China (and in Taiwan in the case of Seed Music), and the sixth company, Fly Songs, engages in concert promotions in Mainland China and Taiwan. We have also recently expanded our artist agency business as discussed in Item 4. “Information on the Company—Our Business—Our Music and Artist Agency Business.” Each music recording and concert performance is an individual artistic work. The commercial success of a music product or concert depends on consumer taste, the quality and acceptance of competing offerings or events released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change quickly. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the financial success of any particular product, the timing of such success, or the popularity of any particular artist. 13 Table of Contents The future success of our affiliated music companies depends on their ability to continue to develop recorded music and organize concerts that are interesting and engaging to our target audience, primarily users of the Internet and WVAS in the case of our recorded music. If our audience determines that the content does not reflect its tastes, then our audience size could decrease, which would adversely affect our results of operations. The ability of Freeland Music, Huayi Brothers Music, New Run, Secular Bird and Seed Music Group to develop compelling content depends on several factors, including the following: • technical expertise of their production and recording staff, • popularity of the artists of our affiliated music companies, • access to songs or songwriters, and • effectiveness of online and offline marketing and promotional activities. Furthermore, our affiliated music companies must invest significant amounts for development prior to the release of any product or organization of an event. These costs may not be recovered if the product or event is unsuccessful. There can be no assurance that such products or events will be successful releases or that any product or events will generate revenues sufficient to cover the cost of development or organization. Our affiliated music companies may unknowingly purchase or license songs, which have already been, or may in the future be, sold or licensed to third parties, which could create costly legal disputes over intellectual property rights with such third parties and the songs’ authors or composers. Our affiliate music companies generally purchase or license songs for their artists from the original authors or composers of the songs. In China, original authors and composers sometimes license or sell their songs to multiple music companies without informing each such company. In that case, our affiliated music companies may unknowingly purchase or license songs that have already been, or may in the future be, licensed or sold to one or more third parties. As a result, disputes may arise between our affiliated music companies, third party music companies and original authors or composers over the rights to particular songs. Any such dispute may require our affiliated music companies to incur significant costs to investigate and resolve them, including potentially the payment of damages to third parties. In addition, our affiliated music companies license and distribute songs to third parties such as providers of Internet and WVAS, which then distribute the music content to their customers. Such companies may be subject to claims by such providers or any of their other customers if the customers suffer losses as a result of a dispute over the ownership of copyrights to songs provided to them. Our affiliated music companies often enter into contracts with third parties on behalf of their artists. If those artists fail to satisfy the requirements under those contracts, our affiliated music companies may be subject to claims, which could expose them to significant costs and business disruption. Our affiliated music companies often enter into various types of contracts with third parties on behalf of their artists, including contracts relating to album publishing, advertising and promotional activities and public performances. If an artist fails to satisfy the requirements under any such contract for whatever reason (such as health problems), then our affiliated music companies may be deemed to have breached the relevant contracts. In that case, our affiliated music companies may be subject to claims for breach of contract by the counterparty to the contracts, which could expose them to significant costs and business disruption. Revenue from our affiliated music companies may not grow as fast as expected due to continuing problems of copyright enforcement in China and retention of popular artists. It can be difficult to enforce certain copyright protections in China. In particular, the music industry in China has suffered from serious piracy issues for many years. Our management estimates that for every dollar of copyrighted CD sales, there are approximately five to ten dollars of pirated CD sales in China. In addition, it can be difficult to retain artists who become popular and generate large revenue for us, given that such artists may decide to renegotiate with us or contract with other music content providers. This is a common problem faced by music companies in the PRC. The revenue generated from our affiliated music companies may continue to be adversely affected by the difficulty in enforcing copyrights and retaining popular artists, and therefore may not grow as fast as anticipated. 14 Table of Contents Additional Risks Related to Our Company Our recent acquisitions and strategic investments and any future acquisitions or investments may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and may subject us to unforeseen liabilities. Selective acquisitions and strategic investments, such as our recent acquisition of Seed Music Group as described in Item 4. “Information on the Company—History and Development of the Company,” form part of our strategy to further expand our business. Such companies may not be as successful as they have been in the past, and may also not perform as well as we expect. Moreover, the integration of such companies into our operations has required significant attention from our management. In particular, we must ensure that the relationships of our newly acquired wireless value-added service companies with the telecom operators are not disrupted by the acquisitions. In addition, our management must also devote significant resources to enhancing its knowledge of the music development, production and distribution business in China, with which we have limited experience, and new geographical markets such as Taiwan and Hong Kong in the case of our recent acquisition of Seed Music Group. Future acquisitions will also likely present similar challenges. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in any integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Acquisitions expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with the assimilation of new operations, services and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies, the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions and potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees and content providers as a result of integration of new businesses. The acquisition of any company could also subject us to unforeseen liabilities arising from the acquisition itself or the operations of the company or both. We face intense competition, which could cause us to lose market share and materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Chinese market for WVAS is changing rapidly and is intensely competitive. We compete principally with four groups of 2G, 2.5G and 3G service providers in China, which include companies that focus primarily or entirely on these markets, major Internet portal operators in China, niche service providers and the telecom operators. There are low barriers to entry for new competitors in the 2G, 2.5G and 3G services market and many of our competitors have longer operating histories in China, greater name and brand recognition, larger customer bases and databases, significantly greater financial, technological and marketing resources and superior access to original content than we have. Recently, certain of the telecom operators have begun offering WVAS directly to their customers. See “—Our revenue from WVAS may be adversely affected by the telecom operators providing their own full portfolio of 2G , 2.5G and 3G services that compete with our services” above. As a result, our existing or potential competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain additional market share, which in turn could reduce our revenues. With respect to our music business, we face significant competition from two groups of competitors. The first group consists of traditional record companies, which are extending downstream to establish their own WVAS or Internet services companies in China. Such competitors include international record companies and independent labels based in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Mainland China, which have longer operating histories, larger music libraries and greater pools of popular artists in comparison to our affiliated music companies. The second group of competitors consists of WVAS providers that focus on music-related products and have extended upstream to establish their own music production businesses in China. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview—Competition.” We operate in rapidly evolving industries, which may make it difficult for investors to evaluate our business. We began commercially offering WVAS in China in 2001, and since that time, the technologies and services used in the WVAS industry in China have developed rapidly. Moreover, we have recently entered the music development, production, distribution and artist agency business in China, which is also rapidly evolving. As a result of this rapid and continual change, you should consider our prospects in light of the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of development. These risks include our ability to: • attract and retain users for our 2G, 2.5G and any upcoming 3G services, • expand the services that we offer, • respond effectively to rapidly evolving competitive and market dynamics and address the effects of mergers and acquisitions among our competitors, • effectively manage our new music businesses and leverage our music library, • maintain, expand and enhance our relationships with telecom operators so that they will allow us to offer our 2G, 2.5G and any upcoming 3G services over their networks, and • increase awareness of our brand and user loyalty. Due to these factors, there can be no certainty that we will maintain or increase our current share of the highly competitive markets in which we operate. 15 Table of Contents We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and middle managers to our management. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives, namely, Dr. Songzuo Xiang, our chief executive officer, Xiaoqing Guo, our chief financial officer and vice president, Ping Ji and Fan Yang, our senior vice presidents in charge of WVAS business, and Haoyu Yang, our senior vice president in charge of music companies. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and middle managers to our management team. If one or more of our current or future key executives or employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement and a confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation agreement with us. As we believe is customary in our industry in China, we do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key executives. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment strain our limited resources. Our future growth could be adversely affected if we cannot manage our expansion effectively. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. If the user base of our WVAS increases or our affiliated music companies expands, we will need to increase our investment in our technology infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations, in particular our product development, customer service and sales and marketing, which are important to our future success. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our services and our customer support could deteriorate and our business may suffer. For example, any such performance issue could prompt China Mobile, China Unicom, or China Telecom to cease offering our services over their networks. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • develop and quickly introduce new WVAS, adapt our existing services and maintain and improve the quality of all of our services, particularly as the market for 2.5G and 3G services evolves and matures, • effectively maintain our relationships with China Mobile and China Unicom, enhance our relationships with China Telecom and establish new relationships with any other recipients of mobile licenses in China so that we are able to offer WVAS over their networks, • attract and retain popular artists for our music and artist agency businesses, • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees, including our senior management, and attract and integrate new employees, • develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls, and • maintain adequate controls and procedures to ensure that our periodic public disclosure under applicable laws, including U.S. securities laws, is complete and accurate. Any failures of the mobile telecommunications network, the Internet or our technology platform may reduce use of our services and our revenues. Our WVAS are offered through the networks of China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom. In addition, we use our website to promote our services and enable users to order them. Thus, both the continual accessibility of the telecom operators’ networks and the performance and reliability of China’s Internet infrastructure are critical to our ability to attract and retain users. Any server interruptions, break-downs or system failures, including failures caused by computer viruses, hacking or sustained power shutdowns, floods or fire causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware equipment, or other events outside our control that could result in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of the mobile networks, the Internet or our technology platform, could adversely impact our ability to provide our services to users and decrease our revenues. 16 Table of Contents Our corporate structure could be deemed to be in violation of current or future Chinese laws and regulations, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business effectively or at all. In connection with China’s entry into the World Trade Organization, or WTO, foreign investment in telecommunications and Internet services in China has been liberalized to allow for a maximum of 50% foreign ownership in value-added telecommunications and Internet services in China. To comply with these ownership requirements, we have implemented a structure which is similar to those used by several of our competitors such as Sina, Sohu, NetEase, Linktone and TOM Online by entering into various agreements with affiliated companies incorporated in China (which we refer to as our affiliated Chinese entities), including Hurray! Solutions Ltd. (“Hurray! Solutions”), Beijing WVAS Solutions Ltd. (“WVAS Solutions”), Beijing Enterprise Network Technology Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Network”), Beijing Palmsky Technology Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Palmsky”), Beijing Hutong Wuxian Technology Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Hutong”), Shanghai Magma Digital Technology Co., Ltd. (“Shanghai Magma”), Beijing Hengji Weiye Electronic Commerce Co., Ltd. (“Hengji Weiye”), Shanghai Saiyu Information Technology Co.,Ltd. (“Shanghai Saiyu”) and Henan Yinshan Digital Network Technology Co., Ltd.(“Henan Yinshan”) and their shareholders. Each of these affiliated Chinese entities is owned by various individuals in China. We do not have any direct ownership interest in our affiliated Chinese entities but have entered into a series of agreements with these entities through which we intend to be able to assert a degree of control and management. In addition, we control Hurray! Digital Media through three of our affiliated Chinese entities, Hurray! Solutions, Beijing Network and Beijing Hutong. It is possible that the relevant Chinese authorities could, at any time, assert that our agreements with our affiliated Chinese entities or any portion or all of the existing or future ownership structure and businesses of each of our company, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Beijing Hurray! Times Technology Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Hurray! Times”), or our affiliated Chinese entities violate existing or future Chinese laws, regulations or policies. It is also possible that the new laws or regulations governing the telecommunication or Internet sectors in China that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in, or other aspects of, any of our, Beijing Hurray! Times’ or our affiliated Chinese entities’ current or proposed businesses and operations. In addition, these new laws and regulations may be retroactively applied. If any of our company, Beijing Hurray! Times and our affiliated Chinese entities is found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including, without limitation, the following: • levying fines, • confiscating the incomes of any of our company, Beijing Hurray! Times or our affiliated Chinese entities, • revoking the business licenses of any of our company, Beijing Hurray! Times or our affiliated Chinese entities, • shutting down servers or blocking websites maintained by any of our company, Beijing Hurray! Times or our affiliated Chinese entities, • restricting or prohibiting our use of our financial assets to finance our business and operations in China, • requiring any of us, Beijing Hurray! Times or our affiliated Chinese entities to restructure our ownership structure or operations, and/or • requiring any of us, Beijing Hurray! Times or our affiliated Chinese entities to discontinue any portion of or all of their WVAS. In any such case, we could be required to restructure our operations, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business effectively or at all. We depend upon agreements with our affiliated Chinese entities for the success of our business. These agreements may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. Because we conduct substantially all our business in China, and because we are restricted to a certain extent by the Chinese government from owning telecommunications or Internet operations in China, we depend on our affiliated Chinese entities, in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide those services through agreements. These agreements may not be as effective in providing control over our telecommunications or Internet operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, our affiliated Chinese entities could fail to take actions required to operate our business, such as renewing their business licenses or services permits or entering into service contracts with China Mobile, China Unicom or China Telecom. Moreover, the fees for our services are paid by the telecom operators directly to our affiliated Chinese entities, which are then obligated at our request to transfer substantially all of such fees to our wholly owned subsidiary, Beijing Hurray! Times. If our affiliated Chinese entities fail to perform their obligations under these agreements, we may have to rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, which we cannot assure you would be effective or sufficient. In particular, the legal environment in China is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. Thus, Chinese courts are often inexperienced in handling corporate disputes, and different courts may apply laws and procedures in different ways. We do not believe that we have a reasonable basis to predict the likelihood of the occurrence of the foregoing risks. However, if there is such an occurrence, it could potentially have a significant adverse effect on our ability to operate our business and on our financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We generate our internal funds almost exclusively from Beijing Hurray! Times. If that company is restricted from paying dividends to us, we may lose almost all of our internal source of funds. Except for a certain amount of cash held by Hurray! Holding Co., Ltd. (approximately $39.5 million as of December 31, 2008), we have no significant assets other than our equity interests in Beijing Hurray! Times and Hurray! Media (through which we hold equity interests in Seed Music Group). We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends that may be paid from Beijing Hurray! Times and Hurray! Media from time to time and technical consulting and service fees, license fees and other fees paid to Beijing Hurray! Times by our affiliated Chinese entities for our cash requirements, including any debt we may incur. We are likely to lose all of our sources of funds if Beijing Hurray! Times or Hurray! Media is restricted from paying dividends to us. Chinese legal restrictions, however, permit payment of dividends only out of net income as determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations, which in turn restricts our ability to receive these revenues. Under Chinese law, Beijing Hurray! Times is also required to set aside a portion of its after-tax profit calculated under PRC generally accepted accounting principles, or PRC GAAP, for which the legal minimum requirement is 10%, to a non-distributable general reserve fund beginning in its first profitable year after offsetting prior year’s cumulative losses and to certain other non-distributable funds at an amount determined by Beijing Hurray! Times. The amount of statutory reserves was nil as of December 31, 2008 since Beijing Hurray! Times incurred an operating loss in 2008. This reserve fund can only be used for specific purposes and is not distributable as cash dividends. Dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China will also be subject to withholding tax under the new tax laws adopted in China. See “—Recent changes in PRC tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our operating results.” If further restrictions on payments of dividends by our subsidiary are implemented under Chinese law, we may not be able to access our internal source of funds. Our revenues may fluctuate significantly and may adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. Our revenues and results of operations have varied in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Many of the factors that cause such fluctuation are outside our control. Steady revenues and results of operations will depend largely on our ability to: • attract and retain users in the increasingly competitive WVAS market in China, • maintain and grow our 2G and 2.5G market share and revenues, and successfully offer 3G services, • successfully implement our business strategies, including integrating our recent strategic acquisitions with our existing core business, and • update and develop our services, technologies and content, which is highly complex. The WVAS industry in China is new and rapidly evolving, our experience in the music industry is limited and our business has experienced significant volatility in terms of financial results as a result of the factors stated above. Therefore, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. It is possible that future fluctuations may cause our results of operations to be below the expectations of market analysts and investors. This could cause the market price of our ADSs to decline. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We believe the copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property we use are important components of our WVAS. In addition, our affiliated music companies are substantially dependent on their ability to protect their rights over their music content. Any unauthorized use of such intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our current and future revenue from such services and software, as well as our reputation. For example, rampant piracy in China has negatively affected offline sales of CDs and tapes by our affiliated music companies, and if piracy becomes a problem in online distribution channels, their financial results would be further materially adversely affected. We rely primarily on the intellectual property laws and contractual arrangements with our employees, clients, business partners and others to protect such intellectual property rights. Third parties may be able to obtain and use such intellectual property without authorization. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in the Internet, wireless value-added and music industries in China is uncertain and still evolving, and these laws may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of some other jurisdictions. In particular, the intellectual property law in China is less developed than in the United States and, historically, China has often not protected private parties’ intellectual property rights to the same extent as such parties might enjoy in the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and have a material adverse effect on our business, overall financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Due to the fact that we aggregate content and applications for our WVAS, and because our services may be used for the distribution of information through, for example, our wireless community services, claims may be filed against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations. In addition, third parties could assert claims against us for losses in reliance on information distributed by us. For example, if we are found to have infringed any intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternative intellectual property. While the vast majority of claims that have been asserted against us in the past have not developed beyond the demand letter stage and do not ultimately result in liability to us, we may also incur significant costs in investigating and defending such claims. We have not purchased liability insurance for these risks. We have limited business insurance coverage, which could expose us to significant costs and business disruption. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products, and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Moreover, while business disruption insurance is available, we have determined that the risks of disruption and cost of the insurance are such that we do not require it at this time. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, particularly if it affects our technology platform which we depend on for delivery of our WVAS. We have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, our management assessed our effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 using the criteria set forth in the report “Internal Control — Integrated Framework” published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (know as COSO). This annual report does not include an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting as temporary rules of the SEC permit us to provide only our management’s report in this annual report. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2008 due to the material weakness we identified. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The identified material weakness is that, while our affiliated music companies make an allowance for doubtful debts against trade receivables based on a review of each individual account, the management of these companies do not use a set of criteria (such as payment history and account activity) to determine whether an allowance for an individual account is necessary. We have implemented measures to resolve the material weakness and improve our internal and disclosure controls and we do not believe that the material weakness identified had a pervasive impact on internal control over financial reporting. See Item 15. “Controls and Procedures - Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.” Nevertheless, we cannot assure you that these measures will be effective and that we will be able to resolve the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting in a timely and effective manner or that any significant material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. If, however, we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal control, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, even if we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our internal control or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Furthermore, effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to help us to manage the company effectively and prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. 19 Table of Contents We believe that we were a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for taxable years 2006, 2007 and 2008 and are likely a PFIC for the current taxable year of 2009, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes for a taxable year if either (a) 75% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income, or (b) 50% or more of the average percentage of our assets during such taxable year either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. For such purposes, if we directly or indirectly own 25% or more of the shares of another corporation, we generally will be treated as if we (a) held directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets, and (b) received directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and depends on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill, from time to time. We believe that we were a PFIC for taxable years 2006, 2007 and 2008 and are likely to be classified as a PFIC for the current taxable year of 2009, although such determination cannot be made with certainty until the end of the taxable year. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to a U.S. investor. For example, if we are a PFIC, then “excess distributions” to a U.S. investor, and any gain realized on the sale or other disposition of our ADSs will be allocated ratably over the U.S investor’s holding period for the ADSs, the amount allocated to the current taxable year and any year prior to our becoming a PFIC will be taxed as ordinary income, and the amount allocated to each of the other taxable years will be subject to tax at the highest rate of tax in effect for the applicable class of taxpayer for that year. Additionally an interest charge for the deemed deferral benefit will be imposed with respect to the resulting tax attributable to each such other taxable year and the U.S. investor will be subject to U.S. tax reporting requirements. Some of these adverse tax consequences may be avoided if the U.S. investor makes a “mark-to-market” election for the ADSs. Accordingly, the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences described above could apply to you if you are a U.S. investor. Given the complexity of the issues regarding our classification as a PFIC, U.S. investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors for guidance as to the U.S. federal, state and local and other tax consequences of our status as a PFIC in light of the particular circumstances applicable to such U.S. investor, as well as the availability of and procedures for making a mark-to-market or other available election. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of our classification as a PFIC, see Item 10.E. “Additional Information—Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation” below. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our shareholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated articles of association include two provisions, which could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management. First, our amended and restated articles of association provide for a classified board of directors. Second, our board of directors has the right to issue preference shares without shareholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute a potential hostile acquirer’s ownership interest in our company, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. Shareholder rights under Cayman Islands law may differ materially from shareholder rights in the United States, which could adversely affect the ability of us and our shareholders to protect our and their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, by the Companies Law (2007 Revision) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders, and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law in the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law in this area may not be as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate laws. Moreover, our company could be involved in a corporate combination in which dissenting shareholders would have no rights comparable to appraisal rights, which would otherwise ordinarily be available to dissenting shareholders of United States corporations. Also, our Cayman Islands counsel is aware of only a few reported cases of derivative actions having been brought in a Cayman Islands court. Such actions are ordinarily available in respect of United States corporations in U.S. courts. Finally, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate shareholder derivative actions before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may face different considerations in protecting their interests in actions against the management, directors or our controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, and our ability to protect our interests may be limited if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States federal court. 20 Table of Contents We believe that all participants of our existing equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens are currently required to register with the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC, or SAFE, and the failure to so comply could subject us and such participants to penalties. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional equity compensation plans for our directors and employees and other parties under PRC law. On April 6, 2007, the capital account department of SAFE issued the Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Option Plan or Stock Option Plan of an Overseas Listed Company, or Circular 78. It is not clear at this time whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans, including restricted purchase share awards granted by us, or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-PRC listed company such as our company after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are PRC citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires PRC citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings by July 5, 2007 if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. In May 29, 2007, the General Affairs Department of SAFE issued the Notice on Printing and Distributing the Operating Rules for the Notice of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on the Relevant Issues about Foreign Exchange Control over the Financing and Return Investment of Domestic Residents through Overseas Special Purpose Companies, or Circular 106. This notice also requires PRC citizens who hold stock options pursuant to a company’s equity incentive plan to register with SAFE. We have completed the required registration on behalf of our stock option holders who are PRC citizens with SAFE. Although Circular 78 has not yet been made publicly available nor has it been formally promulgated by SAFE, and we have submitted the registration with SAFE on behalf of our stock option holders who are PRC citizens pursuant to Circular 106, any failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and the participants of our equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our personnel which is currently a significant component of the compensation of many of our PRC employees, as a result of which our business operations may be adversely affected. Recent changes in PRC tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In March 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. In addition, the Implementation Rules of the New Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the Implementation Rules, were promulgated by the PRC State Council on December 6, 2007 and the Notice on Implementation of Transitional Arrangements for Preferential Policies of Enterprise Income Tax, or the Transitional Arrangements Notice, was promulgated by the PRC State Council on December 26, 2007. Under the New EIT system, a unified enterprise income tax rate of 25% and unified tax deduction standards are applied equally to both domestic-invested enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises. Enterprises established prior to March 16, 2007 eligible for a preferential tax rate of 15% according to the then effective PRC Enterprise Income Law for Foreign-Invested Enterprise and Foreign Enterprise tax laws and administrative regulations is subject to transitional rules as stipulated in the Transitional Arrangements Notice. In addition, certain qualified enterprises may still benefit from a preferential tax rate of up to15% under the New EIT Law if they meet the definition of “qualified high and new technology enterprise” strongly supported by the state as set out in the Implementation Rules. As a result, if our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs qualify as high and new technology enterprises strongly supported by the state under the New EIT Law, they will continue to benefit from a preferential tax rate of up to 15%. Otherwise, the applicable tax rate of our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs is 25% starting from 2008 under the New EIT Law. Before the due date of the 2008 PRC EIT annual final settlement, four of our subsidiaries and VIEs were qualified as high and new technology enterprises and are entitled to the preferential tax rate, tax exemption or reduced rate according to the New EIT Law and transitional rules. While the high and new technology enterprise certificates are valid for three years, we believe based on currently available information that we will be able to reapply successfully for the renewal of the current certificates as we believe we will continue to meet the published criteria. Accordingly, these four entities have used the reduced applicable tax rate in calculations of deferred tax balances for the foreseeable future. However, we cannot be certain that such applications will be successful. In addition, our qualified new cultural enterprises, Huayi Brothers Broker, Hurray! Freeland Culture and Secular Bird, were entitled to tax exemption in 2008. We have used the new standard rates for our other affiliated Chinese entities. Deferred taxes have been calculated using the tax rates that apply to the relevant companies. Under the New EIT Law, the rules for determining whether an entity is resident in the PRC for tax purposes have changed and the determination of residence depends among other things on the “place of actual management.” If Hurray! Holding Co., Ltd. or our non-PRC subsidiaries are determined to be a PRC resident for tax purposes, it or they, would be subject to tax in the PRC on our worldwide income including the income arising in jurisdictions outside the PRC. We have evaluated our resident status under the New EIT Law and related guidance and believe Hurray! Holding Co., Ltd. and our other non-PRC subsidiaries are not a PRC resident for PRC income tax purposes. 21 Table of Contents Under the PRC tax laws effective prior to January 1, 2008, dividends paid to foreign investors by foreign-invested enterprises, such as dividends paid to the overseas holding companies by the PRC subsidiaries, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. Under the EIT Law and its implementation rules which became effective on January 1, 2008, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors who are non-resident enterprises are subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. Aggregate undistributed earnings of our subsidiaries and affiliates located in the PRC that are available for distribution to the Company at December 31, 2008 are considered to be indefinitely reinvested under APB opinion No. 23, “Accounting for Income Taxes — Special Areas,” and accordingly, no provision has been made for the PRC dividend withholding taxes that would be payable upon the distribution of those amounts to Hurray! Holding Co., Ltd. The PRC tax authorities have also clarified that distributions made out of retained earnings accumulated prior to January 1, 2008 are not subject to the withholding tax. LEGAL RISKS RELATED TO WIRELESS AND INTERNET SERVICES The telecommunication laws and regulations in China are evolving and subject to interpretation and will likely change in the future. If we are found to be in violation of current or future Chinese laws or regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties. Our WVAS services are subject to general regulations regarding telecommunication services. The interpretation and application of newly issued Chinese laws and regulations and the possibility of new laws or regulations being adopted have created significant uncertainty regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Chinese companies providing WVAS services, including our affiliated Chinese entities. Many providers of WVAS services have obtained various value-added telecommunication services licenses. Certain of our affiliated Chinese entities, Hurray! Solutions, Beijing Palmsky, Beijing Network, Hengji Weiye, Beijing Hutong, Shanghai Magma, Shanghai Saiyu and Henan Yinshan, have been granted an inter-provincial value-added telecommunication license by the MIIT that permits them to conduct inter-provincial operations. Our affiliated Chinese entity, WVAS Solutions, has been granted a value-added telecommunication service license issued by the local Beijing Municipal Telecommunications Administration Bureau. This license may not be sufficient to authorize WVAS Solutions to provide value-added telecommunication services on an inter-provincial basis. We cannot be certain that any local or national value-added telecommunication license requirements will not conflict with one another or that any given license will be deemed sufficient by the relevant governmental authorities for the provision of this category of service, due to the lack of a comprehensive body of laws and regulations governing our WVAS services. It is also possible that new national legislation might be adopted to regulate such services. If we or our subsidiaries or affiliates are found to be in violation of any existing or future Chinese laws or regulations regarding our WVAS services or Internet access which is discussed in the following risk factor, the relevant Chinese authorities have the power to, among other things: • levy fines, • confiscate our income or the income of our affiliates, • revoke our business license or the business license of our affiliates, • shut down our servers or the servers of our affiliates and/or blocking any Web or WAP sites that we operate, and • require us to discontinue any portion or all of our WVAS services business. 22 Table of Contents The regulation of Internet website operators is also new and subject to interpretation in China, and our business could be adversely affected if we are deemed to have violated applicable laws and regulations. Our affiliate, Hurray! Solutions, and some of our other affiliated Chinese entities operate Internet websites in China, which are one of the channels through which our services are offered. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws and regulations, the stated positions of the main governing authority, the MIIT, and the possibility of new laws or regulations being adopted have created significant uncertainty regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Chinese companies with Internet operations, including ours. In particular, the MIIT has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various Chinese government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. We cannot be certain that the commercial Internet content provider license issued by the relevant government agencies overseeing the telecommunications industry or any value-added telecommunication license held by Hurray! Solutions or our other affiliated Chinese entities will satisfy these requirements. Our failure to comply with applicable Chinese Internet regulations could subject us to severe penalties as noted in the prior risk factor. In particular, regulatory and policy changes by MIIT and the telecom operators can be unpredictable and have caused operating channels to become increasingly unavailable for marketing and promotion. As a result, we have diversified our marketing and promotion channels and developed direct media advertising, Internet marketing alliances, handset vendor partnerships, as well as offline channels such as record stores and convenient stores. These new marketing and promotion methods can be costly and may not be entirely effective in developing new business, which in turn, may adversely affect our customer base and revenues. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA The recent slowdown in the Chinese economy may slow down our growth and profitability. The rate of growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors and has recently slowed due in part to the recent economic and financial downturn experienced in the United States and worldwide. The Chinese government has recently used macroeconomic tools and regulations, including the passage of an economic stimulus plan, to increase the rate of growth of the Chinese economy and may take similar measures in the future. There is no assurance that such steps will be successful. The general state of the Chinese economy affects our profitability as expenditures for wireless value-added and music content services may decrease due to slowing domestic demand. More specifically, increased penetration of WVAS in the less economically developed central and western provinces of China will depend on their achieving certain income levels so that mobile handsets and related services become affordable to a significant portion of the population. Moreover, sales of music content are substantially dependent on the level of discretionary consumer spending in China. The Chinese legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and could also adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. Although legislation in China over the past 20 years has significantly improved the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment and contractual arrangements in China, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protection available to us, and foreign investors, including you. In addition, the Chinese government may enact new laws or amend current laws that may be detrimental to our current contractual arrangements with our Chinese affiliates, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. Any occurrence of pandemic avian influenza or other widespread public health problem, or any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. An outbreak of pandemic avian influenza or other widespread public health problem, or a renewed outbreak of SARS in China, where most of our revenues are derived, and in Beijing, where our operations are headquartered, could have a negative effect on our operations. Further, in April 2009, H1N1, a new strain of flu virus commonly referred to as “swine flu,” was first discovered in North America and quickly spread to other parts of the world, including China. The continual widespread of H1N1 in China and in Beijing may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our operations may be affected by a number of health-related factors, including the following: • quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations, • the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and • a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We may incur substantial increases in labor cost due to the promulgation of the new labor contract law. On June 29, 2007, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law contains substantial provisions with a view toward improve job security and to protect the rights and interests of employees. In order to fully comply with the legal requirements under the Labor Contract Law, we may incur substantial increases in labor cost. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: • economic structure, • level of government involvement in the economy, • level of development, • level of capital reinvestment, • control of foreign exchange, • methods of allocating resources, and • balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs. The PRC government imposes controls on currency conversion between Renminbi and foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of and into China. We receive substantially all of our revenue in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Under our current corporate structure, the income of our company will be primarily derived from dividend payments from Beijing Hurray! Times . Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of Beijing Hurray! Times to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends to us, or otherwise satisfy its foreign currency-dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, in most cases, particularly payments of capital accounts items, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where (i) Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of offshore bank loans denominated in foreign currencies, or (ii) any foreign currency is to be converted into Renminbi for investment in China. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from converting Renminbi into foreign currencies or vice versa, and obtaining sufficient Renminbi or foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, our ability to transfer Renminbi to fund our business operations in China or to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders may be adversely affected. We face foreign exchange and conversion risks, and fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. The People’s Bank of China issued a public notice on July 21, 2005 increasing the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar by approximately 2% to RMB8.11 per US$1.00. Further to this notice, the PRC government reformed its exchange rate regime by adopting a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a portfolio of currencies. Under this regime, the Renminbi is no longer pegged to the U.S. dollar. We cannot predict how and to what extent the exchange rate of the Renminbi will fluctuate in the future. To the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, as we rely entirely on dividends paid to us by Beijing Hurray! Times, any depreciation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenue and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ordinary shares in foreign currency terms. 24 Table of Contents 