D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Substantial doubt exists as to our ability to continue as a going concern. See Item 5.B. “Liquidity and Capital Resources—Liquidity and Going Concern.” We have incurred significant net losses and negative cash flows from operations in recent years. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, our net loss was $9.5 million, $34.4 million and $10.7 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2014, we had cash and cash equivalents of $4.4 million, accumulated deficit of $187.1million and working capital deficit of $4.8 million. For the year ended December 31, 2014, our net operating cash outflow was $5.2 million and we relied on financing support from our controlling shareholder to maintain liquidity for most of the year. Although we generated gross profit in the fourth quarter of 2014, we still had an operating loss and a net loss in that quarter. There is no assurance that such recent improved quarterly performance will continue. Our ability to continue as a going concern is subject to, among others, the following risks: “—Our new business models may not be able to generate sufficient revenues and operating cash flows,” “—Our cooperation arrangements with Qinhe are subject to considerable uncertainties,” “—We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations. We cannot assure you that we can meet our working capital requirements or other capital needs through improved operating results,” and “—We cannot assure you that we can meet our working capital requirements or other capital needs through additional financings in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all.” The audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on Form 20-F were prepared on the basis of a going concern, and do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of these uncertainties. If we became unable to continue as a going concern, we may have to liquidate our assets and the values we receive for our assets in liquidation or dissolution could be significantly lower than the values reflected in our audited consolidated financial statements. Our lack of cash resources, substantial uncertainty of our new business models, and our potential inability to continue as a going concern may materially adversely affect the price of our ADSs and our ability to raise new capital or continue our operations. Our new business models may not be able to generate sufficient revenues and operating cash flows. Historically, we derived substantially all of our revenues from online advertising services, for which we collect service fees from advertisers through our advertising agencies. From April 2011 to March 2014, we relied on Old Shengyue, an affiliate wholly owned by Shanda Interactive during that period, as our primary advertising agency, which managed our sales to, and collected payments from, substantially all of our advertisers. Our advertising agency agreement with Old Shengyue expired on March 31, 2014, and we generated advertising revenue of $2.7 million from Old Shengyue during the first quarter of 2014 prior to its expiration. As a result of our management’s review and adjustment of our business strategies after the Share Purchase Transaction, this agreement was not further renewed and we started to explore new revenue sources, including advertising agreements with independent third parties and cooperation with Qinhe. In April 2014, we entered into a new advertising agency agreement with New Shengyue, which is no longer owned by Shanda Interactive and is an independent third party. In August 2014, we terminated this agreement with New Shengyue and entered into another new advertising agency agreement with Huzhong, an independent third party. We generated advertising revenue of $0.5 million in 2014 from New Shengyue. Pursuant to our agreement with Huzhong, Huzhong will act as our exclusive advertising agency for standard media resources and non-exclusive advertising agency for highly-interactive advertising resources. Under this agreement, we guarantee a certain amount of web traffic per day for webpages on which Huzhong posts advertisements, and in return, Huzhong guarantees to us a minimum amount of advertising revenues per day. If we fail to meet the web traffic target, the minimum amount guaranteed by Huzhong will be proportionally adjusted for the shortfall. Huzhong agreed to prepay 50% of the minimum guaranteed amounts within five business days prior to the beginning of each month and settle the balance within five business days after the end of each month. This advertising agency agreement with Huzhong will expire on December 31, 2017. We generated revenue of $2.8 million under our agreement with Huzhong from August 29, 2014 to December 31, 2014. Going forward, we will continue to rely on third party advertising agencies like Huzhong for our advertising services and we cannot assure you that we will maintain our relationship with them and generate sufficient revenues from these sources. 6 Table of Contents In addition, we explored new revenue models in cooperation with Qinhe, a company controlled by Mr. Xu, our largest shareholder after the Share Purchase Transaction. In April 2014, we started to provide interactive entertainment marketing services to iSpeak, a social platform that allows users to engage in real-time online group activities through voice, text and video. Under our cooperation agreement with Qinhe, which operates the iSpeak platform, Qinhe will share a certain percentage of the revenues that it generates from the viewers who visit the iSpeak platform through advertisements on our website. Users on the iSpeak platform may spend on virtual items during real-time video broadcasting, including gifts and avatars, and purchase other value-added services. In April 2014, we also started to provide game marketing services for Qinhe under a similar revenue sharing arrangement as the one for interactive entertainment marketing cooperation. We generated revenues of $1.6 million from Qinhe for the year ended December 31, 2014. Our cooperation with Qinhe is relatively new and subject to change from time to time. In September 2014, we amended the interactive entertainment marketing services agreement with Qinhe. Pursuant to the amended agreement, Qinhe agreed to pay certain additional guaranteed revenue amounts from July 2014 to December 2014, and the term of this agreement was extended to December 31, 2015. Other terms of the original agreements, including the revenue sharing arrangement, remained the same. On March 30, 2015, we further amended this agreement with Qinhe. Pursuant to the further amended cooperation agreement, the revenue sharing arrangement in the original agreement will be reinstated without the additional guaranteed revenue amounts. Any further changes to this agreement may affect our ability to generate revenues from Qinhe. The success of our cooperation arrangements with Qinhe is subject to the performance of the iSpeak platform operated by Qinhe. See “—Our cooperation arrangements with Qinhe are subject to considerable uncertainties.” In addition, there can be no assurance that these agreements will be extended or renewed after their expiration or that we will be able to further extend or renew such agreements on terms and conditions favorable to us. For example, our game marketing cooperation agreement with Qinhe expired in March 2015 and our management decided not to renew this agreement to focus on interactive entertainment marketing services. As our revenue models for our advertising and marketing services are still relatively new and constantly changing, we cannot assure you that these arrangements will be successful or that we will be able to generate sufficient revenue and cash flows from these revenue models in the future. If either Qinhe or Huzhong breaches its obligations under the relevant agreements or refuses to extend or renew them on commercially reasonable terms when the terms expire, we may not be able to find suitable alternative revenue sources in a timely manner. Any termination or deterioration of our relationship with Qinhe or Huzhong, and any further extension or renewal on terms and conditions less favorable to us, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to introduce successful revenue models in the future, our business, financial condition and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to continue to receive support from our major shareholders. Our online advertising business had benefited significantly from Shanda Interactive’s brand name and strong market position in China prior to the Share Purchase Transaction. From April 2011 to March 2014, we relied on Old Shengyue, an affiliate wholly owned by Shanda Interactive during that period, as our sole advertising agency, which managed our sales to, and collected payments from, substantially all of our advertisers. Our advertising agency agreement with Old Shengyue, as previously renewed, expired on March 31, 2014. As a result of our management’s review and adjustment of our business strategies after the Share Purchase Transaction, this agreement was not further renewed. Shanda Interactive also disposed of their equity interest in Old Shengyue after the Share Purchase Transaction. We cannot assure you that we will be able to receive any support from Shanda Interactive for our operations in the future. We have relied on Shanda Interactive to finance our capital needs, including the issuance of 1,538,461,538 ordinary shares to Shanda Media Group Limited, or Shanda Media, a wholly owned subsidiary of Shanda Interactive, for an aggregate purchase price of $50.0 million in April 2011, and the issuance of $50.0 million aggregate principal amount of senior convertible bonds to Shanda Media in June 2011. Furthermore, in connection with the Share Purchase Transaction, Shanda Interactive, through its affiliate, extended loans of RMB20.0 million to us in April 2014 and waived our obligation to repay the loan. In May 2014, Shanda Interactive, through its affiliates, extended loans of RMB21.4 million to us and waived our obligation to repay this loan. We have treated these transactions as capital contributions. See Item 7.B. “Related Party Transactions—Funding from Shanda Interactive.” As Shanda Interactive ceased to be our largest shareholder after the Share Purchase Transaction, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional financings from Shanda Interactive under terms acceptable to us or at all in the future. 7 Table of Contents In addition, we have relied and will continue to rely on Mr. Xu to operate our business and to finance our capital needs. In April 2014, as a result of our management’s review and adjustment of our business strategies after the Share Purchase Transaction, we adopted new revenue models in cooperation with Qinhe, a company controlled by Mr. Xu. In March 2015, we obtained loans from Mr. Xu, our largest shareholder, in the amount of RMB30.0 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to obtain additional financings from Mr. Xu under terms acceptable to us or at all in the future. Our cooperation arrangements with Qinhe are subject to considerable uncertainties. Historically, we derived substantially all of our revenues from online advertising services, for which we collect service fees from advertisers through our advertising agencies. In April 2014, as a result of our management’s review and adjustment of our business strategies after the Share Purchase Transaction, we adopted new revenue models in cooperation with Qinhe, a company controlled by Mr. Xu, our largest shareholder. Currently, we provide interactive entertainment marketing services to Qinhe. Under the relevant agreement, Qinhe will share with us a certain percentage of the revenues or profits that it generates from the viewers who visit its iSpeak platform and access Qinhe’s media content through the advertisements on our website. As a result, revenues we generate under these agreements will depend on the performance of the iSpeak platform operated by Qinhe, which will be affected by factors beyond our control. Performance of the iSpeak platform may be affected by, among others, Qinhe’s ability to: successfully monetize the user base of iSpeak; offer popular virtual items on the iSpeak platform; attract new users, retain and expand paying users, and encourage additional purchases by its paying users for the iSpeak platform; develop innovative technologies in response to user demand; and integrate new devices, platforms and operating systems. Our history with Qinhe is very short and the form of cooperation between Qinhe and us continues to change. The level of information that is available for Qinhe, a privately held company, is highly limited. Therefore, it is very difficult to effectively assess our future prospects with respect to our cooperation with Qinhe. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and considerable uncertainties with respect to such arrangements. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our operations. We cannot assure you that we can meet our working capital requirements or other capital needs through improved operating results. The operation of an online user-generated content, or UGC, video business requires continuous, substantial investment in content, technology, talent and infrastructure. In order to implement our development strategies to expand our infrastructure and optimize our services across Internet-enabled devices, and further expand and diversify our revenue sources, we may incur additional capital needs in the future. We will also need to fund our research and development activities in order to remain competitive on cost and technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows or otherwise procure sufficient working capital to finance our anticipated operations and capital expenditure requirements, or achieve projected cash collections from customers and contain expenses and cash used in operations. As of December 31, 2014, we had cash and cash equivalents of $4.4 million and a working capital deficit of $4.8 million. We reported net losses attributable to our company of $10.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. Our net cash used in operating activities in 2014 was $5.2 million. After the Share Purchase Transaction, as a result of our management’s review and adjustment of our business strategies, we adopted new revenue models in cooperation with Qinhe, a company controlled by Mr. Xu, our largest shareholder, and entered into new advertising agency agreements with independent third parties like Huzhong. Future performance of such arrangements are subject to considerable uncertainties. See “—Our new business models may not be able to generate sufficient revenues and operating cash flows” and “—Our cooperation arrangements with Qinhe are subject to considerable uncertainties.” In addition, we cannot assure you that any future plans to further reduce our operating expenses would be successful. 8 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we can meet our working capital requirements or other capital needs through additional financings in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we cannot meet our liquidity needs through improved operating results, we may need to obtain financings from financial institutions or issue debt securities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain any future financings if required under commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we may have to issue and sell additional equity securities to meet our liquidity needs, but our ability to sell our equity securities is not assured. Any additional issuance of equity securities would dilute the ownership of our shareholders and ADS holders. Our ability to obtain additional financings in the future is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: · our future business development, financial condition and results of operations; · changes in financial market conditions or our business condition that could limit our access to existing credit facilities or make new financings more costly or even unfeasible; · changes in China’s currency exchange control regulations that could limit our ability to access cash in China to meet liquidity requirements for our operations in China or elsewhere; · general market conditions for financing activities by companies in our industry; and · macroeconomic, political and other conditions in China and elsewhere. In the past, Shanda Interactive and Mr. Xu provided debt and equity financings for us in various situations. In March 2015, we obtained loans from Mr. Xu, our largest shareholder, in the amount of RMB30.0 million. However, we may not receive any support from Shanda Interactive and Mr. Xu in the future. See “—We may not be able to continue to receive support from our major shareholders.”Furthermore, the report of our independent registered public accounting firm expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. This could impair our ability to finance our operations through the sale of equity, issuance of debt, or other financing alternatives. In the absence of support from our major shareholders, there is no assurance that we will be able to independently obtain any financing from any third party on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we cannot obtain sufficient funding to meet our working capital requirements or other capital expenditure needs, our business, financial condition and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We have a history of losses, and we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred net losses in each of the fiscal years from 2010 through 2014. Our ability to achieve profitability is affected by various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: · growth or decline of the online video industry; · the transition from long-form professional content to short-form UGC; · the continued growth and maintenance of our user base; · our ability to control our costs and expenses and effectiveness of our cost reduction plans; · our ability to provide new advertising services to meet the demands of our advertising customers; · growth or decline of the online advertising market in China; and · brand advertisers’ allocation of more budgets to online video industry. Our ability to achieve profitability also depends on the success of our new business models, including our cooperation arrangements with Qinhe, which are subject to considerable uncertainties. See “—Our new business models may not be able to generate sufficient revenues and operating cash flows” and “—Our cooperation arrangements with Qinhe are subject to considerable uncertainties.” Despite our cost reduction measures, we may continue to incur net losses in the future due to our continued investments in content, technology, bandwidth and talent. If we cannot sustain or grow our revenues to offset our costs, or if our cost reduction measures lead to a further decrease in our revenues, our gross margin, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may also continue to incur net losses in the future due to changes in the macroeconomic and regulatory environment, competitive dynamics and our inability to respond to these changes in a timely and effective manner. We anticipate incurring substantial additional net losses and may never achieve profitability. Even if we raise sufficient capital through equity or debt financing or otherwise, there can be no assurances that our net revenues or capital infusion will be sufficient to enable us to develop our business to a level where it will be profitable or generate positive cash flow. 9 Table of Contents The report of our independent registered public accounting firm expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our independent registered public accounting firm indicated in its reports on our financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2013and 2014 that conditions exist that raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern due to our working capital deficit and the uncertainty relating to the new business models. A “going concern” opinion could impair investor perceptions and our ability to finance our operations through the sale of equity, incurring debt, or other financing alternatives. Our ability to continue as a going concern will depend upon many factors beyond our control, including the availability and terms of future funding, growth in revenues from our agreements with Qinhe and Huzhong and the effectiveness of our cost reduction measures. See “—There is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as going concern.” If we are unable to achieve these goals, our business would be jeopardized and we may not be able to continue. If we ceased operations, it is likely that all of our investors would lose their investment. We may implement further restructuring of our business, including through strategic acquisitions, in the future. In order to improve our business operations, we may implement further restructuring of our business in the future, including through strategic acquisitions. There could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and prospect if we fail to successfully execute any such restructuring plans and acquisitions, or if the contemplated benefits from any such restructuring or acquisitions do not materialize. In addition, the success of any acquisition, if any, will depend upon a number of factors, including: · our ability to acquire businesses on a cost-effective basis; · our ability to obtain necessary financings for such acquisition; · our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively; and · our ability to retain and motivate key personnel and to retain the clients of acquired firms. Any such restructuring or strategic acquisition may require a significant commitment of management time, capital investment and other resources. Our business operation may also be severely disrupted by any such transactions. We may be unable to consummate such transactions, we may not be able to effectively integrate an acquired business or we may be required to incur significant expenses to complete a transaction. We may also experience increased employee turnovers in our existing workforce. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we use debts to finance any such restructuring or acquisition, we may become highly leveraged. If we use our equity securities as consideration for transactions, the value of your ADSs may be substantially diluted. In addition, according to the amendments to Schedule 13D filed by Shanda Interactive on April 1, 2014 and the Schedule 13D filed by Mr. Xu on April 9, 2014, under the share purchase agreement relating to the Share Purchase Transaction, Shanda Media, a wholly owned subsidiary of Shanda Interactive, has agreed that if we propose to acquire Sky Profit Limited, a company controlled by Mr. Xu, our largest shareholder, and such transaction is recommended to the shareholders for approval by our board of directors and any special committee of disinterested directors, Shanda Media shall vote all its shares in line with such recommendation. Sky Profit Limited controls Qinhe, which operates iSpeak, a social platform that allows users to engage in real-time online group activities through voice, text and video. Shanda Media has a right under this share purchase agreement to subscribe to equity or equity-linked securities issued by affiliates of Mr. Xu for an amount up to $25,000,000 that is equal to, or convertible into, 20% of Sky Profit Limited on a fully diluted basis. However, this right is not available to other holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Currently, our company has no plan to acquire Sky Profit Limited. 10 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive market and we may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors. We face significant competition, primarily from those companies that operate online video websites in China, which our management estimates to currently number over one hundred. A large number of independent online video sites, such as Youku Tudou and iQiyi.com, compete against us. In addition, Chinese Internet portals, including Sina.com, Sohu.com and Baidu.com, and some of China’s major TV networks, such as China Central Television, or CCTV, Phoenix Satellite TV and Hunan Satellite TV, which have longer operating histories and more experience in attracting and retaining users and managing customers than we do, have launched their own video businesses. We also face competition from Internet video streaming platforms based on the P2P technology, such as PPS and PPTV. We compete with these companies for users and advertisers. Our competitors may compete with us in a variety of ways, including by conducting brand promotions and other marketing activities and making acquisitions. In addition, certain online video websites may continue to derive their revenues from providing content that infringes third-party copyright and may not monitor their websites for any such infringing content. As a result, we may be placed at a disadvantage to some of these websites that do not incur similar costs as we do with respect to content monitoring. Some of our competitors have a longer operating history and significantly greater financial resources than we do, and in turn may be able to attract and retain more users and advertisers. If any of our competitors achieves greater market acceptance than we do or is able to offer more attractive online video content, our user traffic may decrease and our market share may decrease, which may result in a loss of advertisers and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Internet streaming of content represents only one of many existing and potential new technologies for viewing video. Many users maintain simultaneous relationships with multiple video providers and can easily shift from one provider to another. For example, users may subscribe to cable, buy a DVD, and download a movie from Apple iTunes or other sources, or some combination thereof. New competitors may be able to launch new businesses at a relatively low cost. We also face competition from other types of advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines, yellow pages, billboards and other forms of outdoor media, television and radio. Most large companies in China allocate, and will likely continue to allocate, most of their marketing budgets to traditional advertising media and only a small portion of their budgets to online marketing and other forms of advertising media. If these companies do not devote a larger portion of their marketing budgets to online marketing services provided by our online video business, or if our existing customers reduce the amount they spend on online marketing, our results of operations and future growth prospects could be adversely affected. The online video industry in China and user acceptance of our online video content may not grow as quickly as expected, which may adversely affect our revenues and business prospects. Our business prospects depend on the continuing development of the online video industry in China. As an emerging industry, China’s online video industry has experienced substantial growth in recent years in terms of both users and content. We cannot assure you, however, that the online video industry will continue to grow as rapidly as it has in the past. With the development of technology, new forms of media may emerge and render online video websites less attractive to users. Growth of the online video industry is affected by numerous factors, such as users’ general online video experience, technological innovations, development of Internet and Internet-based services, regulatory changes, especially regulations affecting copyrights, and the macroeconomic environment. If the online video industry in China does not grow as quickly as expected or if we fail to benefit from such growth by successfully implementing our business strategies, our user traffic may decrease and our business and prospects may be adversely affected. We operate in a rapidly evolving industry. If we fail to keep up with the technological developments and users’ changing requirements, our business, results of operations and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. The online video industry is rapidly evolving and subject to continuous technological changes and changes in industry standards. Our success will depend on our ability to keep up with the changes in technology and user behavior resulting from the technological developments. For example, the development of broadband enabled the enjoyment of high definition videos online. In addition, the number of people accessing the Internet via devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones and other hand-held devices, has increased in recent years. With the rapid development of 3G and 4G mobile communication services in China, we expect this trend to continue. If we do not adapt our products and services to such changes in an effective and timely manner, we may suffer from a decreased user traffic, which may result in a reduced number of advertisers using our online advertising services. Furthermore, changes in technologies may require substantial capital expenditures in product development as well as in modification of products, services or infrastructure. Failure in keeping up with technological development may result in our products and services being less attractive, which in turn, may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. 11 Table of Contents If we fail to continue to provide attractive products and services, we may not be able to generate sufficient user traffic to remain competitive. Our success depends on our ability to generate sufficient user traffic through provision of attractive products and services. To attract and retain users and compete against our competitors, we must maintain high-quality UGC that provides our users with a satisfactory online video experience. With UGC, users can upload and share their own videos and spend a longer time on our website, and we believe a “community-like” environment will enhance users’ loyalty to our website and such network effect broadens advertisers’ reach of audience. Previously, we purchased the licensing rights to some popular UGC and shared advertising revenues with individual users whose number of uploads exceed certain thresholds. We also had a revenue sharing program to reward users for contents they uploaded in order to encourage more users to upload UGC to our website. In April 2014, in connection with the change of our business models after the Share Purchase Transaction, we announced a suspension of this revenue sharing program from May 1, 2014. This program has not been resumed and may not be resumed in the future.Historically, contracted users contributed approximately 50% of all the videos on our website. As a result of the suspension of this revenue sharing program, the quality and quantity of our UGC may deteriorate in the future, which, in turn, may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. We may not be able to continue to anticipate user preferences. Based on the feedback on our website design and our statistics regarding users’ watching behavior, we keep developing new website features that appeal to users, such as designing more user-friendly content searching tools, creating additional interactive social functions or offering better website compatibility with new Internet-enabled devices. We need to continuously anticipate user preferences and industry changes and respond to such changes in a timely and effective manner. If we fail to cater to the needs and preferences of our users and, as a result, fail to deliver satisfactory user experience, we may suffer from reduced user traffic and our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to maintain and enhance our brand. We may not be able to maintain and enhance our Ku6 brand (“” and “ 6”). The online video market is highly competitive, and a well-recognized brand is critical to increasing our user base and, in turn, enhancing our attractiveness to advertisers for our online advertising business. Our success in promoting and enhancing our brand, as well as our ability to remain competitive, will depend on our success in offering high-quality content, features and functionality. If we fail to promote our brand successfully or if visitors to our website or advertisers do not perceive our content and services to be of high quality, we may not be able to grow our business and may lose users and advertisers. You may not be able to rely on our quarterly operating results as an indication of our future performance because our quarterly operating results may be subject to significant fluctuations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could be caused by many factors, including, but not limited to: · our ability to retain existing users, attract new users at a steady rate and maintain user satisfaction; · the creation of new content by our users and the popularity of such content; · technical difficulties, system downtime or Internet failures for our websites; 12 Table of Contents · the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; · the adoption of new, or changes to existing, governmental regulations; and · economic conditions in general and specific to the online video industry in China. As a result, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter or semiannual-to-semiannual comparisons of our operating results as indicators of our future performance. Although we generated gross profit in the fourth quarter of 2014, we still had an operating loss and a net loss in that quarter. There is no assurance that such recent improved quarterly performance will continue. Our operating results may be below our expectations or the expectations of public market analysts and investors in one or more future quarters. If that occurs, the price of our ADSs could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. We may be subject to administrative actions by PRC regulatory authorities and other liabilities because of advertisements shown on our website. Under PRC advertising laws and regulations, we are obligated to monitor the advertising content shown on our website to ensure that such content is true, accurate and in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations. In addition, where a special government review is required for specific types of advertisements prior to website posting, such as advertisements relating to pharmaceuticals, medical instruments, agrochemicals and veterinary pharmaceuticals, we are obligated to confirm that such review has been performed and approval has been obtained from competent governmental authority, which is generally the local branch of the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC. Violation of these laws and regulations may subject us to penalties, including fines, confiscation of our advertising income, orders to cease dissemination of the advertisements and orders to publish an announcement correcting the misleading information. In circumstances involving serious violations, such as posting a pharmaceutical product advertisement without approval, or posting an advertisement for fake pharmaceutical products, PRC governmental authorities may force us to terminate our advertising operation or revoke our licenses. Furthermore, advertisers, advertising operators or advertising distributors, including us, may be subject to civil liability if they infringe on the legal rights and interests of third parties. Substantially all of the advertisements shown on our website are provided to us by our advertising agency on behalf of advertisers. We cannot assure you that all the content contained in such advertisements is true and accurate as required by the advertising laws and regulations, especially given the uncertainty in the application of these laws and regulations. For example, Article 38 of the Advertisement Law provides that an advertisement operator who knows or should have known the posted advertisement is false or fraudulent will be subject to joint and several liabilities. However, for the determination of the truth and accuracy of the advertisements and the actual or constructive knowledge of the website, there are no implementing rules or official interpretations, and such a determination is at the sole discretion of the relevant local branch of the SAIC, which results in uncertainty in the application of these laws and regulations. If we are found to be in violation of applicable PRC advertising laws and regulations in the future, we may be subject to penalties and our reputation may be harmed, which may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview—Government Regulation—Regulations on Advertisements.” System failures, security risks and data protection breaches could impair our users’ online video experience and adversely affect our reputation. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology applications, systems and networks to operate our business. Our ability to provide users with a high-quality online video experience depends on the continuous and reliable operation of our systems. We cannot assure you that we will be able to procure sufficient bandwidth in a timely manner or on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to do so may significantly impair user experience on our website and decrease the overall effectiveness of our website to both users and advertisers. Disruptions, failures, unscheduled service interruptions or a decrease in connection speeds could hurt user experience and our reputation, causing our users and advertisers to switch to our competitors’ websites. Our systems and proprietary video content delivery network, or CDN, are vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, undetected errors in software, computer viruses, hacking and other attempts to harm our systems. We have experienced service interruptions in the past which typically were caused by (i) overload of our servers, (ii) unexpected overflow of user traffic, and (iii) service malfunction of the telecommunications operators, such as power outage of Internet data centers or network transmission congestion. We may continue to experience similar interruptions in the future despite our continuous efforts to improve our systems. Since we host our servers at third-party Internet data centers, any natural disaster or unexpected closure of Internet data centers operated by third-party providers may result in lengthy service interruptions. If we experience frequent or persistent service disruptions, whether caused by failures of our own systems or those of third-party service providers, our users’ experience may be negatively affected, which in turn, may have a material and adverse effect on our reputation. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in minimizing the frequency or duration of service interruptions. In addition, the risks of cyber-attacks have increased significantly recently. Some of these attacks may originate from well organized, highly skilled organizations. Any such attack could result in a loss of our intellectual property, the release of commercially sensitive information, customer or employee personal data. Failures to protect the privacy of customer and employee confidential data against breaches of network security could result in damage to our reputation. 13 Table of Contents Undetected programming errors could adversely affect user experience and the market acceptance of our video programs, which may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The video programs, including advertising video programs, on our website may contain programming errors that may only become apparent after their release. We receive user feedback in connection with programming errors affecting their user experience from time to time, and such errors may also come to our attention during our monitoring process. We generally have been able to resolve such programming errors in a timely manner. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to detect and resolve all these programming errors effectively. Undetected audio or video programming errors or defects may adversely affect user experience and cause our advertisers to reduce their use of our services, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our operations depend on the performance of the Internet infrastructure and telecommunications networks in China and third-party service providers. Our products and services depend on the ability of our users to access the Internet. Therefore, the successful operation of our business depends on the performance of the Internet infrastructure and telecommunications networks in China. Almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunications operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of China’s Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT. Moreover, we have entered into contracts with various subsidiaries of a limited number of telecommunications service providers in each province and rely on them to provide us with data communications capacity through local telecommunications lines and Internet data centers to host our servers. We have limited access to alternative networks or services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure or the telecommunications networks provided by telecommunications service providers. Our Ku6.com website regularly serves a large number of users and advertisers. With the expansion of our business, we may be required to upgrade our technology and infrastructure to keep up with the increasing traffic on our websites. However, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by telecommunications service providers. If the prices we pay for telecommunications and Internet services rise significantly, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If Internet access fees or other charges to Internet users increase, our user traffic may decline and our business may be hurt. Our servers, which are partly hosted at third-party Internet data centers, are vulnerable to break-ins, sabotage and vandalism. The occurrence of a natural disaster or a closure of an Internet data center by a third-party provider without adequate notice could result in lengthy service interruptions. Moreover, the agreements we have entered into with domestic telecommunications carriers to host our servers typically have terms of approximately one year and are renewable subject to early termination. If we are not able to renew such hosting services agreements with the telecommunications carriers when they expire and are not able to enter into agreements with alternative carriers at commercially reasonable terms or at all, the quality and stability of our services may be adversely affected. In addition, our domain names are resolved into Internet protocol (IP) addresses by systems of third-party domain name registrars and registries. Any interruptions or failures of those service providers’ systems, which are beyond our control, could significantly disrupt our own services. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures on our websites, whether due to interruptions and failures of our own information technology and communications systems or those of third-party service providers we rely upon, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. The steps we take to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, may reduce our operating margin and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of service interruptions. 14 Table of Contents We also depend significantly on relationships with leading technology providers and the licenses that the technology providers have granted to us. Our competitors may establish the same relationships as we have, which may adversely affect us. We may not be able to maintain these relationships or replace them on commercially attractive terms. We have been and expect to continue to be exposed to intellectual property infringement and other claims, including claims based on content posted on our website. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to operate our business without infringing third-party rights, including third-party intellectual property rights. Internet companies, technology and media industries own, and are seeking to obtain, a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, and they are frequently involved in litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights or other related legal rights. There may be patents issued or pending that are held by others that cover significant aspects of our technologies, products, business methods or services. We have been and may continue to be subject to claims for defamation, negligence, infringement of third-party copyright and other rights, such as privacy and image rights, or other claims based on the nature or content of videos or other information provided by us or our users. We paid $0.1 million to settle such claims and recorded expenses relating to such claims of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, and the balance of accrued litigation provision was $1.7 million as of December 31, 2014. We do not carry any liability insurance covering such risks. Due to the significant number of videos uploaded by users, which currently amounts to an average of approximately 48,790 files on a daily basis, we may not be able to identify all content that may infringe on third-party rights. Thus, our failure to identify unauthorized videos posted on our website may subject us to, and may continue to subject us to, claims of infringement on third-party intellectual property rights or other rights. Third parties may also make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on the information on our websites. In addition, we may be subject to administrative actions brought by the National Copyright Administration of the PRC, or the NCAC, or its local branches for alleged copyright infringement. Although we have not previously been subject to legal actions for copyright infringement in jurisdictions other than the PRC, it is possible that we may be subject to such claims in the future. Such other jurisdictions may impose different protections for copyrights, and the claims may result in potentially larger damages awards than have been imposed in the PRC. For example, although our operations are in China and our site is targeted at audiences in Asia, our site includes some English-language content and is accessible by users in the United States and elsewhere. There is a risk that a U.S. court may determine that it has jurisdiction over us in connection with claims for U.S. copyrights. Although U.S. copyright laws, including the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (17 U.S.C. § 512), or the DMCA, provide safeguards from claims for monetary relief for copyright infringement for certain entities that host user-uploaded content and that comply with specified statutory requirements, it is possible that a U.S. court would conclude that it has jurisdiction and that we are not eligible for, or have not complied with all the statutory requirements to qualify for, the safeguards provided by the DMCA. Under such circumstances, it is possible that we could be subject to claims of copyright infringement in the United States. It could be time-consuming and costly to defend these claims, which, with or without merit, may cause us to incur significant costs and liabilities and could materially and adversely affect our business, and also result in diversion of the attention of our management and our financial resources and negative publicity on our brand and reputation. The failure to successfully defend any of them may result in substantial damage awards and/or court orders that may prevent us from continuing to provide certain of our existing services. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, and any failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our revenues and competitive position. We believe that trademarks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights and other intellectual property we use are important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection laws in China and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property and our brand. We have invested significant resources to develop our own intellectual property and acquire licenses to use and distribute the intellectual property of others for our online video site; failure to maintain or protect these rights could harm our business. In addition, any unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our current and future revenues and our reputation. 15 Table of Contents The validity, enforceability and scope of protection available under intellectual property laws with respect to the Internet industry in China are uncertain and still evolving. Implementation and enforcement of PRC intellectual property-related laws have historically been deficient and ineffective. Accordingly, protection of intellectual property rights in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other western countries. Furthermore, policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we may need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend copyrights issued to us or our other intellectual property or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. Such litigation and an adverse determination in any such litigation, if any, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Complexity, uncertainties and changes in government policies or regulations of Internet industry may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our online video business is subject to strict government regulations in China. The PRC government extensively regulates the Internet industry, including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the Internet industry. Under the PRC regulatory scheme, a number of regulatory agencies, including the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television, or SAPPRFT, including its predecessor ministries, the State Administration of Radio, Film, and Television, or SARFT, and the General Administration of Press and Publication, or the GAPP, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT, the State Council Information Office, or SCIO, and the State Internet Information Office established by SCIO in May 2011, jointly regulate all major aspects of the Internet industry, including the online video industry. Operators must comply with restrictions related to foreign investment in value added telecommunication services industry in China and obtain various government approvals and licenses, including an Internet content provider license, or ICP license, and an Internet audio/video program transmission license, prior to the commencement of online video operations. We believe that we have obtained the licenses and permits essential for our business operations. However, given the Internet-related laws and regulations are relatively new and rapidly evolving in China, their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to violate applicable laws and regulations. The permits, licenses or approvals that we hold may be subject to challenge, we may fail to obtain permits or licenses that may be deemed necessary for our operations, or we may not be able to renew certain permits or licenses. We may also need to apply for additional permits or licenses when we enter new sectors of the Internet industry. For example, we may need to apply for the Internet News Information Service Permit issued by the SCIO or the Internet Publication License issued by SAPPRFT, in connection with the current events channel on our website. We may also need to expand the scope of our audio/video program transmission licenses to cover more categories of audio/video services. If we fail to maintain any of the required permits, licenses or approvals, we may be subject to various penalties, including fines and discontinuation of, or restriction on, our operations. Any such disruption of our business operations may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, actions by the PRC government, including the interpretation, re-interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and promulgation of new laws, regulations or policies relating to the Internet industry, may create substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in the Internet industry in China. Any such actions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. For example, in December 2012, the GAPP published a proposed rule relating to Internet publication which, among other things, seeks to clarify the meaning of the “Internet publication service” and “Internet publication” as well as modify the application procedures for the relevant license. We plan to apply for the required license once the final rule is issued. However, we cannot assure you that such application would be approved by the relevant governmental agencies in a timely manner or at all. If we fail to obtain the license, we may be subject to various administrative penalties, including fines and confiscation of our income or assets, and we may be forced to discontinue our business and our website may be blocked. 16 Table of Contents We have limited business insurance coverage. Insurance companies in China currently do not offer as extensive an array of insurance products as insurance companies do in more developed economies. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance to cover our operations. We have determined that the costs of insuring for these risks and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms make it impractical for us to have such insurance. Any uninsured occurrence of business disruption may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Regulation and censorship of information disseminated over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business and subject us to liability for information displayed on or linked to our websites. The PRC government has adopted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information over the Internet. Under these regulations, Internet content providers and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet content that, among other things, violates PRC laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of China, or is reactionary, obscene, superstitious, fraudulent or defamatory. Furthermore, Internet content providers are also prohibited from displaying content that may be deemed by relevant government authorities as “socially destabilizing” or leaking “state secrets” of the PRC. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in administrative penalties, such as fines, the revocation of licenses to provide Internet content and other licenses and the closure of the concerned websites. In the past, failure to comply with such requirements has resulted in the closure of certain websites. The website operator may also be held liable for such censored information displayed on or linked to the website. In addition, the MIIT has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for content displayed on their websites and the actions of users and others using their systems, including liability for violations of PRC laws and regulations prohibiting the dissemination of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. The Ministry of Public Security has the authority to order any local Internet service provider to block any Internet website at its sole discretion. From time to time, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the dissemination over the Internet of information that it believes to be socially destabilizing. The State Secrecy Bureau is also authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking state secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of state secrets in the dissemination of online information. Furthermore, we are required to report any suspicious content to relevant governmental authorities, and to undergo computer security inspections. If we fail to implement the relevant safeguards against security breaches, our websites may be shut down and our business and ICP licenses may be revoked. Although we attempt to monitor the content on our websites, we are not able to control or restrict the content of other Internet content providers linked to or accessible through our websites, or content uploaded to, or generated or placed on, our websites by our users. To the extent that PRC regulatory authorities find any content displayed on our websites objectionable, they may require us to limit or eliminate the dissemination of such information on our websites. If third-party websites linked to or accessible through our website operate unlawful activities such as online gambling on their websites, PRC regulatory authorities may require us to report such unlawful activities to relevant authorities and to remove the links to such websites, or they may suspend or shut down the operation of such websites. PRC regulatory authorities may also temporarily block access to certain websites for a period of time for reasons beyond our control. Any of these actions may reduce our user traffic and adversely affect our business. In addition, we may be subject to penalties for violations of those regulations arising from information displayed on or linked to our websites, including a suspension or shutdown of our online operations. Concerns about collection, use and security of personal data could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users from using our services. We have an extensive user base for our video platform, from which we collect personal data about our registered users. Under our privacy policy, without our users’ prior consent, we may not provide any of our users’ personal data to any unrelated third party. While we strive to comply with our privacy policies and other applicable data protection laws and regulations, any failure or perceived failure of compliance may result in proceedings or actions against us by our users, government authorities or other parties, and could damage our reputation. User and regulatory attitudes toward privacy are evolving, and their concerns about the extent to which personal data may be recorded, used or shared may adversely affect our ability to record, use or share such data, which may limit our advertising capabilities and the effectiveness of the marketing efforts of our advertising agencies. 17 Table of Contents Recently, the PRC government started to require, to certain extent, real name registration for Internet services. According to the Provisions on Administration of Internet User Account Names promulgated by the National Internet Information Office in February 2014, the Internet information service providers shall, pursuant to the principle of “mandatory real name registration at the back-office end, and voluntary real name display at the front-office end,” require the Internet information service users to sign up accounts after passing real identity information authentication. See Item 4.B. “Business Overview—Government Regulation—Regulations on Internet Privacy.” We currently do not require real name registration by our users, which may be deemed to violate relevant PRC laws and regulations, and the PRC regulatory authorities may impose administrative penalty or other sanctions on us. In addition, concerns about the security of personal data could also lead to a decline in general Internet usage, which could lead to lower user traffic on our platform. Decrease of anonymity may impair user experience of online media consumption, deter our users from viewing, uploading and sharing videos on our website and reduce the amount of their interactive activities. A significant reduction in user traffic could lead to lower advertising revenues. Any of the above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report. Our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2014, as reported under criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, or COSO. However, as a non-accelerated filer, we are not required to provide an attestation on the effectiveness of our internal control by our independent registered public accounting firm under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or the requirements of the SEC promulgated thereunder. Our independent registered public accounting firm previously reported on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our prior years’ annual reports. However, for this annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2014, our independent registered public accounting firm did not report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on a continuing basis in the future, or that our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control is accurate or will not be challenged. As effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important to help prevent or detect fraud, any failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could harm our business and result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements going forward. We believe that we were a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for taxable years 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 and it was not clear whether we were a PFIC for taxable year 2011. Although we believe we were not a PFIC for taxable year 2014, we may be a PFIC for subsequent taxable years, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. We will be a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes for a taxable year if either (a) 75% or more of our gross income for such taxable year is passive income or (b) 50% or more of the average quarterly value, generally determined by fair market value, of our assets during such taxable year consists of assets that either produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. For such purposes, if we directly or indirectly own 25% or more of the shares of another corporation, we generally will be treated as if we (a) held directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s assets and (b) received directly a proportionate share of the other corporation’s income. We believe that we were a PFIC for taxable years 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, and it was not clear whether we were a PFIC for taxable year 2011. The determination of our PFIC status is subject to uncertainty because the treatment of the contractual arrangements between our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities for purposes of the PFIC rules is uncertain. If we were a PFIC for 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2011, and you held ordinary shares or ADSs during any such taxable years, we would continue to be treated as a PFIC with respect to those ordinary shares or ADSs for all succeeding years during which you hold them. Our PFIC status for any taxable year will not be determinable until after the end of the taxable year and will depend on the composition of our income and assets and the market value of our assets for such taxable year, which may be, in part, based on the market price of our ordinary shares or ADSs (which may be especially volatile). For these reasons, and because of the uncertainties regarding the treatment of our contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for any taxable year. Such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to a U.S. investor. In general, if we are a PFIC, then “excess distributions” to a U.S. investor and any gain realized by a U.S. investor on the sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares or ADSs will be allocated ratably over the U.S. investor’s holding period for the ordinary shares or ADSs; the amount allocated to the taxable year of receipt of the proceeds of such distribution or disposition and any year prior to our becoming a PFIC will be taxed as ordinary income; and the amount allocated to each other taxable year will be subject to tax at the highest rate in effect for the applicable class of taxpayer for that year. Additionally, an interest charge will be imposed with respect to the resulting tax attributable to each such other taxable year and the U.S. investor will be subject to U.S. tax reporting requirements. Alternatively, if we are a PFIC and if our ADSs are “regularly traded” on a “qualified exchange,” a U.S. investor could make a mark-to-market election that would result in tax treatment different from the general tax treatment for PFICs described above. 18 Table of Contents Given the complexity of the issues regarding our classification as a PFIC, U.S. investors are urged to consult their own tax advisors for guidance as to the U.S. federal, state and local and other tax consequences of our status as a PFIC in light of their particular circumstances, as well as the availability of, and procedures for making, a mark-to-market or other available election. For further discussion of the adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences of our classification as a PFIC, see Item 10.E. “Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation” below. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our businesses in China do not comply with PRC governmental restrictions on foreign investment in Internet business, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to relinquish our interests in those operations. Current PRC laws and regulations place certain restrictions on foreign ownership of companies that engage in Internet business, including the provision of online video and online advertising services. Specifically, foreign ownership in an Internet content provider or other value-added telecommunication service providers may not exceed 50%. Moreover, a foreign investor must have certain track record in the value-added telecommunication business or advertisement business before it can obtain direct equity interests in a PRC company that operates in these industries. Since we are a Cayman Islands company without any track-record of value-added telecommunication service or advertisement operations, neither we nor our PRC subsidiaries are eligible to hold a license to operate our website or our advertisement business in China. As a result, we conduct our operations in China principally through contractual arrangements among our PRC subsidiaries, our consolidated affiliated entities, and their respective shareholders. These contractual arrangements enable us to exercise effective control over these entities and hence treat them as our consolidated affiliated entities and consolidate their results. For a detailed discussion of these contractual arrangements, see Item 4.C. “Organizational Structure.” PRC laws and regulations governing the validity of these contractual arrangements are uncertain and the relevant government authorities have broad discretion in interpreting these laws and regulations. Although we believe we are in compliance with current PRC regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would hold the same view with us or these contractual arrangements comply with regulations or policies that may be amended or adopted in the future. On July 13, 2006, the MIIT issued the Notice of the MIIT on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunications Services. This notice prohibits domestic telecommunication services providers from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunications business operating licenses to any foreign investor in any form, or providing any resources, sites or facilities to any foreign investor for their illegal operation of a telecommunications business in China. According to this notice, either the holder of a value-added telecommunication business operating license or its shareholders must legally own the domain names and trademarks used by such license holders in their provision of value-added telecommunication services. The notice further requires each license holder to have the necessary facilities, including servers, for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In addition, all value added telecommunication service providers are required to maintain network and Internet security in accordance with the standards set forth in relevant PRC regulations. If a license holder fails to comply with the requirements in the notice and cure such noncompliance, the MIIT or its local counterparts have the discretion to take measures against such license holders, including revoking their valued-added telecommunication business operating licenses. 19 Table of Contents In January 2015, MOFCOM published on its website for public comment on a draft Foreign Investment Law of the PRC, or the draft FIL. The draft FIL is believed to strengthen the regulation of PRC companies, such as our VIEs, which have contractual arrangements with foreign investors or foreign invested companies. Under the draft FIL, a company controlled by foreign investors through contractual arrangements is considered to be a foreign invested enterprise and as a result is explicitly subject to restrictions on foreign investment. If the current version of the draft FIL becomes effective, our VIEs could fall within the scope of foreign invested companies and be subject to restrictions on foreign investment in the telecommunication service industry including online video business, and the related contractual arrangements between our VIEs and us could be challenged. Under the draft FIL, it is unclear how “control” would be determined for such purpose, and the draft FIL is silent as to the enforcement actions that might be taken against existing companies, such as our VIEs, that operate in restricted industries. Ku6 Information Technology, one of our consolidated affiliated entities, holds the licenses and permits necessary to conduct our online video, online advertising and related businesses in China. However, the related trademarks are owned by Beijing WFOE, one of our wholly owned PRC subsidiaries. If the MIIT strictly enforces the notice, we may be required to transfer those trademarks from Beijing WFOE to Ku6 Information Technology. If the PRC government determines that we do not comply with the currently applicable laws and regulations or policies that may be adopted in the future such as the proposed Draft FIL, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, including our value-added telecommunication license and ICP license, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, block our website, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. The imposition of any of these penalties would result in a material and adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. Substantial uncertainties exist with respect to the enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation of the draft Foreign Investment Law and how it may impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations. In January 2015, MOFCOM published the draft FIL aiming to, upon its enactment, replace the existing laws regulating foreign investment in the PRC, namely, the Sino-foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign-invested Enterprise Law. The draft FIL is believed to embody a PRC regulatory trend to rationalize its foreign investment regulatory regime in line with prevailing international practice and the legislative efforts to unify the corporate legal requirements for both foreign and domestic investments. MOFCOM is currently soliciting comments on the draft FIL and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation. The draft FIL, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations in many aspects. Among other things, the draft FIL expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of “actual control” in determining whether a company is considered a foreign-invested enterprise, or an FIE. The draft FIL specifically provides that entities established in the PRC but “controlled” by foreign investors will be treated as FIEs, whereas an entity set up in a foreign jurisdiction would nonetheless be, upon market entry clearance by MOFCOM, treated as a PRC domestic investor provided that the entity is “controlled” by PRC entities and/or citizens. “Control” is broadly defined in the draft FIL to cover the following categories: (i) holding, directly or indirectly, not less than 50% of shares, equities, share of voting rights or other similar rights of the subject entity; (ii) holding, directly or indirectly, less than 50% of the voting rights of the subject entity but having the power to secure at least 50% of the seats on the board or other equivalent decision making bodies, or having the voting power to materially influence the board, the shareholders’ meetings, or other equivalent decision making bodies; or (iii) having the power to exert decisive influence, via contractual or trust arrangements, over the subject entity’s operations, financial matters or other key aspects of business operations. Once an entity is determined to be an FIE, it will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in a catalogue of “special administrative measures” to be separately issued by the State Council, which will classify industries into the “catalogue of prohibitions” and the “catalogue of restrictions.” Foreign investors are not allowed to invest in any sector set forth in the catalogue of prohibitions. The “variable interest entity” structure, or the VIE structure, has been adopted by many PRC-based companies, including us, to obtain necessary licenses and permits in the industries that are currently subject to foreign investment restrictions in China. Under the draft FIL, variable interest entities that are controlled through contractual arrangements could also be deemed FIEs if they are ultimately “controlled” by foreign investors. If MOFCOM takes this position, our VIEs may be deemed FIEs and we may be deemed to operate FIEs in industries listed in the “catalogue of restrictions” based on the current catalogue relating to foreign investment, and our current corporate structure may be challenged. The draft FIL has not taken a position on what actions shall be taken with respect to the existing companies with a VIE structure and MOFCOM is soliciting comments from the public on this point. Moreover, it is uncertain whether the industry in which our variable interest entities operate will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in the “catalogue of special administrative measures” to be issued. We cannot assure you that the Foreign Investment Law and the final “catalogue of special administrative measures,” if enacted, will not mandate further actions to be completed by companies with an existing VIE structure like us or that we will be able to comply with such requirements within reasonable time, on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. 20 Table of Contents The draft FIL, if enacted as proposed, may also materially impact our corporate governance practices and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the draft FIL imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable FIEs. Aside from an investment information report required at each investment, and investment amendment reports, which shall be submitted upon changes to investments, it is mandatory for entities established by foreign investors to submit an annual report, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to report on a quarterly basis. Any company found to be non-compliant with these reporting obligations may potentially be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liabilities, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liabilities. Our existing contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders may be subject to national security review by MOFCOM, and the failure to pass the national security review could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and reputation. In August 2011, the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, promulgated the Rules of Ministry of Commerce on Implementation of Security Review System of Merger and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, to implement the Notice of the General Office of the State Council on Establishing the Security Review System for Merger and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors promulgated on February 3, 2011, or Circular 6. The MOFCOM Security Review Rules became effective on September 1, 2011. Under the MOFCOM Security Review Rules, a national security review is required for certain mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors raising concerns regarding national defense and security. Foreign investors are prohibited from circumventing the national security review requirements by structuring transactions through proxies, trusts, indirect investments, leases, loans, control through contractual arrangements or offshore transactions. The application and interpretation of the MOFCOM Security Review Rules remain unclear. If MOFCOM or other PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that we need to submit our existing contractual arrangements with our affiliated PRC entity and its shareholders for national security review by interpretation, clarification or amendment of the MOFCOM Security Review Rules or by any new rules, regulations or directives promulgated after the date of this report, we may face sanctions by MOFCOM or other PRC regulatory agency. These sanctions may include revoking the business or operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries or our consolidated affiliated entities and its subsidiaries, discontinuing or restricting our operations in China, confiscating our income or the income of our PRC subsidiaries or our consolidated affiliated entities, requiring us to undergo a costly and disruptive restructuring such as forcing us to transfer our equity interest in our PRC subsidiaries to a domestic entity or invalidating the agreements that our PRC subsidiaries have entered into with our consolidated affiliated entities and their respective shareholders, and taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Any of these sanctions could cause significant disruption to our business operations, including rendering us unable to access cash and other assets of, exercise our ownership rights in and consolidate the results of operations of our affiliated entities in China, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and reputation. We rely on contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities in China and their shareholders for our operations, which may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing operational control. Since PRC laws restrict foreign equity ownership in companies engaged in online video and advertising businesses in China, we rely on contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their respective shareholders to operate our business in China. If we had direct ownership of Ku6 Information Technology, Tianjin Ku6 Zheng Yuan, Ku6 Cultural and Tianjin Ku6 Network, we would be able to: (i) exercise our rights as a shareholder to effect changes in the board of directors of these entities, which in turn could effect changes at the management level, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, and (ii) derive economic benefits from the operations of these entities by causing them to declare and pay dividends. However, under the current contractual arrangements, we rely on our consolidated affiliated entities and their respective shareholders’ performance of their contractual obligations to exercise effective control. In general, neither our consolidated affiliated entities nor their respective shareholders may terminate the contracts prior to the expiration date. However, the shareholders of Ku6 Information Technology, Tianjin Ku6 Zheng Yuan, Ku6 Cultural or Tianjin Ku6 Network may not act in the best interests of our company or may not perform their obligations under these contracts, including the obligation to renew these contracts when their initial terms expire. Such risks exist throughout the period in which we intend to operate our business through the contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities. However, if any dispute relating to these contracts remains unresolved, we will have to enforce our rights under these contracts through the operations of PRC law and courts and therefore will be subject to uncertainties in the PRC legal system. See “—Any failure by our consolidated affiliated entities or their respective shareholders to perform their obligations under our contractual arrangements with them may have a material adverse effect on our business” below. Therefore, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing us with control over these consolidated affiliated entities. 21 Table of Contents Any failure by our consolidated affiliated entities or their respective shareholders to perform their obligations under our contractual arrangements with them may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our consolidated affiliated entities and their respective shareholders may fail to take certain actions required for our business or follow our instructions despite their contractual obligations to do so. If they fail to perform their obligations under their respective agreements with us, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, which may not be effective. All of our contractual arrangements with them are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in China. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. The legal environment in China is not as developed as in certain other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements, which may make it difficult to exert effective control over our consolidated affiliated entities, and our ability to conduct our business may be adversely affected. Contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities may result in adverse tax consequences to us. Under applicable PRC tax laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities within ten years after the taxable year when the arrangements or transactions are conducted. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities were to determine that the contractual arrangements among our PRC subsidiaries, our consolidated affiliated entities in China and their respective shareholders were not entered into on an arm’s-length basis and therefore constituted unfavorable transfer pricing arrangements. Unfavorable transfer pricing arrangements could, among other things, result in an upward adjustment to our tax liability. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose interest on late payments on our consolidated affiliated entities for the adjusted but unpaid taxes. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if our consolidated affiliated entities’ tax liabilities increase significantly or if they are required to pay interest on late payments. On March 18, 2015, the State Administration of Taxation promulgated the Announcement of the State Administration of Taxation on Issues Relating to Enterprise Income Tax on Expenses Paid by an Enterprise to its Overseas Affiliated Party, or Circular 16, which took effect as of the date of promulgation. Under Circular 16, any expense paid by an enterprise to its overseas affiliated party shall be in compliance with the “arm’s length principle.” Otherwise, the PRC tax authorities may adjust our tax liability in a manner that is unfavorable to us. According to Circular 16, any expense paid by an enterprise to its overseas affiliated party, which fails to perform functions, bear risks or conduct substantial business activities, shall not be deducted in calculating corporate income tax. When an enterprise pays expenses to its overseas affiliated party for the services rendered thereby, such services shall help the enterprise gain directly or indirectly economic interests. The expenses paid by an enterprise to its overseas affiliated party for the following services shall not be deducted in calculating corporate income tax: (i) services irrelevant to the risks that the enterprise bears or businesses that the enterprise carries out, (ii) services such as control, management and supervision conducted by the affiliated party over the enterprise for the purpose of protecting the nterests of direct or indirect investors in the enterprise, (iii) services rendered by the affiliated party that the enterprise has purchased or carried out by itself, (iv) specific services carried out by the affiliated party within the group specially for the enterprise, although the enterprise has gained extraneous earnings due to the affiliation to a group, (v) services that have been compensated in other affiliated transactions; and (vi) other services that cannot bring about direct or indirect economic interests to the enterprise. When an enterprise needs to pay royalties to its overseas affiliated party for using an intangible asset provided thereby, it shall determine the economic interests to which each affiliated party is entitled by taking into account the degree of contribution made by each affiliated party to the value of the intangible asset. If the royalties paid by the enterprise to the affiliated party, which only owns the legal ownership of the intangible asset but does not contribute to the value thereof, are not in compliance with the arm’s length principle, such royalties shall not be deducted in computing the corporate income tax payable by the enterprise. Where an enterprise establishes an overseas holding company or financing company for the purpose of financing for going public, the royalties paid to its overseas affiliated party for the carried interests generated from the activities of financing for going public, shall not be deducted in calculating corporate income tax. 22 Table of Contents We are a holding company incorporated outside of the PRC and any potential income would be based on the dividends, service fees, royalties or other distributions from our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities. We may need to rely on our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities to fund our cash and financing requirements through certain of the transactions described in Circular 16. Therefore, Circular 16 may significantly increase our tax liability if we decide to carry on any of such transactions in the future. The shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations, and generate substantially all of our revenues, through our consolidated affiliated entities. Our control over these entities is based upon contractual arrangements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their shareholders that provide us with the substantial ability to control these entities. We provide no incentives to any of the shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities for the purpose of encouraging them to act in the best interest of our company in such capacity. These shareholders may breach their contractual arrangements, or cause our consolidated affiliated entities to breach their contractual arrangements, with us or cause these contracts to be amended in a manner contrary to the interest of our company, if they believe such action furthers their own interest, or if they otherwise act in bad faith. We cannot assure you that, when conflicts arise, these shareholders will act in the best interest of our company or that conflicts will be resolved in our favor. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and any of these shareholders, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which may be expensive, time-consuming and disruptive to our operations. There is also substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. We rely on our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities to fund our cash and financing requirements. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities to transfer funds to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow or otherwise fund our cash and financing requirements. We are a holding company and our operations are principally conducted through our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities. As a result, the ability of our company to pay dividends and to finance debts depends upon the service fees and license fees paid by our consolidated affiliated entities to our PRC subsidiaries and dividends and other distributions paid by our PRC subsidiaries to our company. If any of our subsidiaries or consolidated affiliated entities incurs debt on its own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay service fees or dividends directly or indirectly to our company. Under PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities may pay dividends only out of their retained earnings as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. There is no significant difference between retained earnings as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities are required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax net income each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserves, which are not distributable as cash dividends, until the aggregate amount of such funds reaches 50% of their respective registered capital. As of December 31, 2014, the registered capital was $11.7 million for Beijing WFOE, $60.0 million for Tianjin WFOE and $45.2 million for Tianjin Ku6 Network WFOE, respectively. As none of our PRC subsidiaries has made any profits to date, our PRC subsidiaries have not been subject to the statutory reserve fund requirements and have not set aside any money to fund the statutory reserve funds or staff welfare and bonus funds. Our PRC subsidiaries will not be able to pay dividends to us or our offshore subsidiaries until they generate accumulated profits and meet the requirements for statutory reserve funds. As a result of these and other restrictions under PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities are restricted in their ability to transfer a portion of their net assets to our company either in the form of dividends, loans or advances, which restricted portion amounted to approximately $30.9 million as of December 31, 2014. In addition, our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated affiliated entities may, at their discretion, allocate a portion of their after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards to staff welfare and bonus funds. These staff welfare and bonus funds are not distributable as cash dividends. 23 Table of Contents Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. We may be unable to collect long-term loans extended to the shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities. As of December 31, 2014, we had outstanding long-term, interest-free loans in an aggregate principal amount of RMB31.0 million ($5.0 million) to the shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities to enable them to fund the initial capitalization and the subsequent financial requirements of our consolidated affiliated entities. Each of the loans to the shareholders of Ku6 Information Technology and Ku6 Cultural has an unspecified term and will be repayable upon demand. Each of the loans to the shareholders of Tianjin Ku6 Network has an initial term of 20 years expiring in December 2031, which can be extended upon written agreement. We may in the future make additional loans to the shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities in China in connection with any increase in the capitalization or financial requirements of these entities to the extent necessary and permissible under applicable PRC laws and regulations. Our ability to collect these long-term loans will depend on the profitability and results of operations of these consolidated affiliated entities, which are uncertain. The PRC Property Rights Law may affect the perfection of the pledge in our equity pledge agreements with our consolidated affiliated entities and their individual shareholders. Under the equity pledge agreements among our PRC subsidiaries, certain of our consolidated affiliated entities and the shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities, the shareholders of our consolidated affiliated entities have pledged all of their equity interests in these entities to our relevant subsidiaries by recording the pledge on the shareholder registers of the respective entities. According to the PRC Property Rights Law, a pledge is not valid unless it is registered with the relevant local administration for industry and commerce. The SAIC and its local branches have adopted registration procedures with respect to the registration of equity pledges according to the Property Rights Law. All of our consolidated affiliated entities have completed their registration of the applicable equity pledges under the PRC Property Rights Law and the registration procedures. However, our corporate structure may change from time to time, and the various equity pledge agreements may need to be frequently amended. For example, the shareholders of Ku6 Culture and Ku6 Information Technology changed in August 2012, which required us to amend the registered equity pledges. We completed both amendments in 2012. We cannot assure you, however, that our consolidated affiliated entities will be able to register the equity pledges or their amendments in the future. If they are unable to do so, the pledges may be unenforceable under the PRC Property Rights Law. Until such pledge interests are registered, they are not considered perfected under the PRC law. Consequently, if any individual shareholder of our consolidated affiliated entities breaches his or her obligations under the contractual arrangements with respect to these entities while the relevant equity pledges are not registered, there is a risk that our PRC subsidiaries may not be able to successfully enforce the equity pledges and would need to resort to legal proceedings to enforce their contractual rights. Our major shareholders will have substantial influence on the outcome of shareholder actions in our company that might not be beneficial to you as a holder of our ADSs. As of March 31, 2015, Mr. Xu and Shanda Interactive beneficially held1,938,360,784 and 1,396,333,818 ordinary shares, respectively, representing 40.7% and 29.3%, respectively, of the voting power in our company. Such ownership interest of Mr. Xu and Shanda Interactive gives them substantial influence on actions that require shareholder approval under Cayman Islands law, our memorandum and articles of association, or the NASDAQ listing requirements, including the election and removal of members of our board of directors, mergers, consolidations and other business combinations, changes to our memorandum and articles of association, the number of shares available for issuance under equity incentive plans and the issuance of significant amounts of our ordinary shares in private placements. Under the share purchase agreement relating to the Share Purchase Transaction, Mr. Xu has agreed to use his best efforts and take necessary actions to appoint two persons nominated by Shanda Media, an entity controlled by Shanda Interactive, as our directors, subject to certain conditions. Mr. Xu and Shanda Interactive may also approve a merger or consolidation of our company which may result in you receiving a stake (either in the form of shares, debt obligations or other securities) in the surviving or new consolidated company which may not operate our current business model and dissenter rights may not be available to you in such an event. Under the share purchase agreement relating to the Share Purchase Transaction, Shanda Media has agreed that if we propose to acquire Sky Profit Limited and such transaction is recommended to the shareholders for approval by our board of directors and any special committee of disinterested directors, Shanda Media shall vote all its shares in line with such recommendation. Sky Profit Limited controls Qinhe, which operates iSpeak, a social platform that allows users to engage in real-time online group activities through voice, text and video. Shanda Media also has a right under this share purchase agreement to subscribe to equity or equity-linked securities issued by affiliates of Mr. Xu for an amount up to $25,000,000 that is equal to, or convertible into, 20% of Sky Profit Limited on a fully diluted basis. This right is not available to holders of our other ADSs. Furthermore, the voting powers of Mr. Xu and Shanda Interactive may also prevent a transaction involving a change of control of us, including transactions in which you as a holder of our ADSs might otherwise receive a premium for your securities over the then-current market price. 24 Table of Contents We may have conflicts of interest with our major shareholders or their respective affiliates, and we may not be able to resolve such conflicts on terms favorable to us. As of March 31, 2015, Mr. Xu and Shanda Interactive beneficially held 1,938,360,784 and 1,396,333,818ordinary shares, respectively, representing 40.7% and 29.3%, respectively, of the voting power in our company. Conflicts of interest may arise between Mr. Xu or Shanda Interactive and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. In addition to the conflicts of interests we have discussed in other risk factors, potential conflicts of interest that we have identified include the following: · Our board members or executive officers may have conflicts of interest. Mr. Xu currently serves as the chairman of our board of directors, chief executive officer and acting chief financial officer. Mr. Robert Chiu, who is our director, also serves as president of Shanda Interactive. Mr. Haifa Zhu, who is our director, also serves as chief investment officer and senior vice president of Shanda Interactive. These relationships could create perceived or actual conflicts of interest when these persons are faced with decisions with potentially different implications for Shanda Interactive and us. · Agreements with Mr. Xu and its affiliates. The various agreements that we entered into with Qinhe, a company controlled by Mr. Xu, including the interactive entertainment marketing cooperation agreement and the game marketing cooperation agreement, may be less favorable to us than would be the case if they were negotiated with third parties. Moreover, Mr. Xu may leverage his substantial influence over us to prevent us from bringing a legal claim against him or his affiliates in the event of a contractual breach, notwithstanding our contractual rights under the agreements and any other agreement we may enter into with Mr. Xu and his affiliates from time to time. · Business opportunities. Business opportunities may arise that we, Mr. Xu and Shanda Interactive find attractive, and which would complement our respective businesses. Due to the substantial influence of Mr. Xu and Shanda Interactive, we may not be able to pursue these business opportunities effectively if Mr. Xu or Shanda Interactive decides to take advantage of such opportunities. We may not be able to resolve any potential conflicts, and even if we do so, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated shareholder. Even if all of the parties seek to transact business on terms intended to approximate those that could have been achieved among unaffiliated parties, this may not succeed in practice. 25 Table of Contents Risks Related to Doing Business in China Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal conditions and developments in China. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and could also adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. Although legislation in China over the past 20 years has significantly improved the protection afforded to various forms of foreign investment and contractual arrangements in China, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively new and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protection available to us, and foreign investors, including you. In addition, the PRC government may enact new laws or amend current laws that may be detrimental to our current contractual arrangements with respect to our consolidated affiliated entities, which may in turn have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business. PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to liability or penalties, limit our ability to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to increase their registered capital or distribute profits to us, or may otherwise adversely affect us. On July 4, 2014, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Offshore Investment and Financing and Roundtrip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or SAFE Circular 37, which replaced the former circular commonly known as “SAFE Circular 75” promulgated by SAFE in October 2005. SAFE Circular 37 requires PRC residents to register with local branches of SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity for the purpose of overseas investment and financing, with assets or equity interests of onshore companies or offshore assets or interests held by the PRC residents, referred to in SAFE Circular 37 as a “special purpose vehicle.” SAFE Circular 37 further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as increases or decreases in capital contributed by PRC residents, transfers or exchanges of shares, mergers, divisions, or other material changes. The term “control” under SAFE Circular 37 is broadly defined as the operation rights, beneficiary rights or decision-making rights acquired by the PRC residents in special purpose vehicles or PRC companies by such means as acquisition, trust, proxy, voting rights, repurchase, convertible bonds or other arrangements. If our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC citizens or residents do not complete their registration under Circular 37, our PRC subsidiaries may be prohibited from distributing their profits and proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to us, and we may be restricted in our ability to contribute additional capital to our PRC subsidiaries. As a result, our business operations and our ability to make distributions to you may be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above may result in liabilities for our PRC subsidiaries under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. It is unclear how SAFE Circular 37 and any future regulation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. We cannot predict how these regulations will affect our business operations or future strategy. We may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends and foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. PRC regulation of loans to, and direct investment in, PRC entities by offshore holding companies and governmental control of currency conversion may limit our ability to make loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entitie. As the offshore holding company of our PRC subsidiaries, we have historically financed, and may continue to finance, our PRC subsidiaries by extending loans or making additional capital contributions to them. Any loans to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations. For example, loans by us to finance the operations of any PRC subsidiary which is a foreign-invested enterprise may not exceed statutory limits and are required to be registered with SAFE. We may also need to increase the registered capital of our PRC subsidiaries or finance them through capital contributions. Such changes and capital contributions must be approved by MOFCOM or its local branches. 26 Table of Contents In August 2008, SAFE promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises, or Circular 142, regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency registered capital into Renminbi by restricting how the converted Renminbi may be used. Circular 142 provides that the Renminbi capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within China, unless it is provided for otherwise. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the Renminbi capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such Renminbi capital may not be altered without SAFE approval, and such Renminbi capital may not in any case be used to repay Renminbi loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Furthermore, SAFE also promulgated the Notice regarding Further Clarification and Regulation of the Administration of Certain Capital Account Transactions, or Circular 45, in November 2011. Circular 45 restricts, among other things, a foreign-invested enterprise from using Renminbi converted from its registered capital to provide entrusted loans or repay loans between non-financial enterprises. In July 2014, SAFE issued the Circular on the Relevant Issues Concerning the Launch of Reforming Trial of the Administration Model of the Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises in Certain Regions, or Circular 36. Circular 36 suspends the application of Circular 142 in certain regions and allows a foreign-invested enterprise registered in these regions with equity investments as main business to use the Renminbi capital converted from foreign currency registered capital for equity investments within the PRC. On March 30, 2015, SAFE issued the Circular on the Reforming of the Management Method of the Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign-Invested Enterprises, or Circular 19, which will become effective on June 1, 2015. Under Circular 19, a foreign-invested enterprise may also choose converting its registered capital from foreign currency to Renminbi on self-discretionary basis, but shall not use such converted registered capital to provide entrusted loans or repay loans between non-financial enterprises. A foreign-invested enterprise with equity investments as main business can use the Renminbi capital converted for equity investments within the PRC. Once Circular 19 becomes effective, Circular 142 and Circular 36 will be abolished. In light of the various requirements imposed by PRC regulations on loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies, including SAFE circulars referred to above, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary government registrations or obtain the necessary government approvals on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries and conversion of such loans or capital contributions into Renminbi. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our ability to fund and expand our business. Any failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding our employee equity incentive plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. On February 15, 2012, SAFE issued the Notices on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Publicly-Listed Company, or Circular 7, which replaced the Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of an Overseas Listed Company issued by SAFE on March 28, 2007. According to Circular 7, domestic individuals, which include PRC residents and non-PRC residents who reside in China for a continuous period of not less than one year other than foreign diplomatic personnel and representatives of international organizations, are required to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures if such individuals participate in an employee stock ownership plan or a stock option plan in a publicly listed overseas company. These participants should retain a PRC agent, which can be a subsidiary of the overseas listed company in China, to handle various foreign exchange matters associated with these plans. They must also retain an overseas entrusted institution to handle matters in connection with their exercise of stock options and their purchase and sale of stocks. The PRC agent of a PRC domestic individual participant must apply for the approval of an annual allowance if such participant needs to use funds in China in connection with the stock incentive plan. The PRC agent is also required to submit a filing form with respect to the stock incentive plan at the beginning of each quarter. The foreign exchange proceeds received by the PRC domestic individual participants from the sale of shares under the stock option plans granted by the overseas listed companies must be remitted into the bank accounts in China opened by their employers or PRC agents. We and our PRC domestic individual employees who have been granted share options will be subject to these rules. While we have completed the required registration of our 2010 Equity Compensation Plan, or the 2010 Plan, with the Tianjin Branch of SAFE in November 2012, we cannot assure you that all future participants will register with SAFE in a timely manner, or at all. Any failure to comply with such regulations may subject us and the participants of our equity compensation plans who are PRC citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our personnel which is currently a significant component of the compensation of many of our PRC employees, as a result of which our business operations may be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents In addition, the State Administration for Taxation has issued circulars concerning employee share options or restricted shares. Under these circulars, employees working in the PRC who exercise share options (i.e. our existing equity compensation plans), or whose restricted shares vest, will be subject to PRC individual income tax. The PRC subsidiaries of an overseas listed company have obligations to file documents related to employee share options or restricted shares with relevant tax authorities and to withhold individual income taxes of those employees related to their share options or restricted shares. Although we currently withhold income tax from our PRC employees in connection with their exercise of options and the vesting of their restricted shares, if the employees fail to pay, or the PRC subsidiaries fail to withhold, their income taxes according to relevant laws, rules and regulations, the PRC subsidiaries may face sanctions imposed by the tax authorities or other PRC government authorities. The PRC tax authorities’ enhanced scrutiny of PRC enterprise income tax on offshore equity transfers may have a negative impact on your investment in our ADSs. In December 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice Concerning the Strengthening of Enterprise Income Tax Administration with Respect to Equity Transfers by Non-Resident Enterprises, or Circular 698, which became effective retroactively as of January 1, 2008. By promulgating Circular 698, the PRC tax authorities have enhanced their scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-PRC resident enterprise. Circular 698 has the effect of taxing foreign companies on gains derived from the indirect sale of a PRC company. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction that has an effective tax rate less than 12.5% or does not tax foreign income of its residents, the foreign investor must report this indirect transfer to the tax authority in charge of that PRC resident enterprise. Using a “substance over form” principle, the PRC tax authority may disregard the existence of the overseas holding company if it lacks a reasonable commercial purpose and was established for the purpose of avoiding PRC tax. As a result, gains derived from such indirect transfer may be subject to PRC withholding tax at a rate of up to 10%. The State Administration of Taxation subsequently released public notices to clarify issues relating to Circular 698, including the Announcement on Several Issues Concerning the Enterprise Income Tax on the Indirect Transfers of Properties by Non-Resident Enterprises, or SAT Notice 7, which became effective on February 3, 2015. SAT Notice 7 abolished the compulsory reporting obligations originally set out in Circular 698. Under SAT Notice 7, if a non-resident enterprise transfers its shares in an overseas holding company that directly or indirectly owns PRC taxable properties, including shares in a PRC company, via an arrangement without reasonable commercial purpose, such transfer shall be deemed a direct transfer of the underlying PRC taxable properties. Accordingly, the transferee shall be deemed a withholding agent with the obligation to withhold and remit the income tax to the competent PRC tax authorities. SAT Notice 7 also establishes safe harbors for the “reasonable commercial purpose” test. There is limited guidance and practical experience regarding the application of Circular 698 and the related SAT notices. We, our non-PRC resident enterprise subsidiaries and our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to these regulations for our previous and future restructuring or disposal of shares in our offshore subsidiaries, in which case we may have disputes with tax authorities and need to incur expenses to establish that we are not subject to these regulations, or otherwise may be subject to additional tax liabilities. If this happens, it may have a negative impact on our business operations. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, includes a provision specifying that legal entities organized outside China will be considered residents for PRC income tax purposes if their place of effective management or control is within China. If legal entities organized outside China were considered residents for PRC income tax purposes, they would be subject to the 25% enterprise income tax imposed by the EIT Law on their worldwide income. The implementation rules to the EIT Law provide that non-resident legal entities will be considered China residents if substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. reside within China. Although substantially all of our operational management is currently based in China, it is uncertain whether our company and our offshore intermediate holding company would be deemed as PRC tax resident enterprises under the EIT Law and other related PRC laws and regulations. If our company and our offshore intermediate holding company were deemed as PRC tax resident enterprises and have earned income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiaries, a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income could increase our tax burden and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. 28 Table of Contents Dividends that we receive from our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC withholding tax. In accordance with the EIT Law and its implementation rules, dividends which arise from profits of foreign invested enterprises earned after January 1, 2008 are subject to a 10% withholding tax. As of December 31, 2014, our PRC subsidiaries had no undistributed earnings available for distribution. In addition, our company does not have any present plan to pay any cash dividends on our ordinary shares in the foreseeable future and we intend to retain most of our available funds and any future earnings for use in the operation and expansion of our business in China. Accordingly, no provision has been made for the PRC dividend withholding taxes that would be payable upon distributions of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to us. Any future dividends that our company receives from our PRC subsidiaries will be subject to PRC withholding tax. The enforcement of the PRC labor contract law may materially increase our costs and our net loss. The PRC National People’s Congress promulgated the Labor Contract Law and its implementation rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Compared to previous labor laws, the Labor Contract Law and its implementation rules provides stronger protection for employees and imposes more stringent obligations on employers with regard to, among others, minimum wages, severance payments upon permitted termination of employment by an employer and non-fixed term employment contracts, time limits for probation period as well as the duration and the times that an employee can be placed on a fixed-term employment contract. Compliance with the Labor Contract Law and its implementation rules may increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses. In the event that we decide to terminate some of our employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law and its implementation rules may also limit our ability to effect those changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, and could result in a material decrease in our profitability. In addition, pursuant to the Labor Contract Law and its amendments, dispatched employees are intended to be a supplementary form of employment, and the fundamental form should be direct employment by enterprises and organizations that require employees. Further, it is expressly stated in the Interim Provisions on Labor Dispatch, which became effective on March 1, 2014, that the number of dispatched employees and employer uses may not exceed 10% of its total labor force and the employer has a two-year transition period to comply with such requirement. A significant number of our employees are contracted through third-party human resources companies that are responsible for managing, among others, payrolls, social insurance contributions and local residency permits of these employees. We may be held jointly liable if such human resources companies fail to pay such employees their wages and other benefits or otherwise become liable to these employees for labor law violations. As the interpretation and implementation of labor-related laws and regulations are still evolving, we cannot assure you that our employment practice does not and will not violate labor-related laws and regulations in China, which may subject us to labor disputes or government investigations. If we are deemed to have violated relevant labor laws and regulations, we may be required to provide additional compensation to our employees and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The PRC government imposes controls on currency conversion between Renminbi and foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of and into China. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including payment of dividends, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior SAFE approval by complying with certain procedural requirements. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in their current accounts, subject to a ceiling approved by SAFE, to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. In addition, approval of the appropriate governmental authorities is required if Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of offshore bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental authorities will not limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Under our current corporate structure, the income of our company will be primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends to us, or otherwise satisfy its foreign currency-dominated obligations. 29 Table of Contents Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by a severe and prolonged global economic downturn and a corresponding slowdown of the PRC economy. Recent global market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging and have caused persisting recession in most major economies in 2008 and 2009 and significant market volatility since 2010. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of a potentially long-term and widespread recession, energy costs, geopolitical issues and the availability and cost of credit have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth around the world. The difficult economic outlook has negatively affected business and consumer confidence and contributed to volatility at unprecedented levels. The PRC economy also faces challenges. In 2014, China’s gross domestic product expanded by only 7.4%, which was its slowest rate in the past 20 years and below the PRC government’s growth target. Since we derive substantially all of our revenues in China, any prolonged slowdown in the growth of the PRC economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Disruptions of the financial markets could also significantly restrict our ability to obtain financing in the capital markets or from financial institutions. Changes in China’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the PRC government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the PRC economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: · economic structure; · level of government involvement in the economy; · level of development; · level of capital reinvestment; · control of foreign exchange; · methods of allocating resources; and · balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Inflation in China and measures to contain inflation could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. If prices for our advertising services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in our costs, our business may be materially and adversely affected. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. Such austerity measures can lead to a slowing of economic growth. A slowdown in the PRC economy could also materially and adversely affect our business and prospects. 30 Table of Contents Registered public accounting firms in China, including our independent registered public accounting firm, are not inspected by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which deprives us and our investors of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies whose securities are registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards applicable to auditors. Our independent registered public accounting firm is located in, and organized under the laws of, the PRC, which is a jurisdiction where the PCAOB, notwithstanding the requirements of U.S. law, is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities. In May 2013, the PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, and the PRC Ministry of Finance, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by the PCAOB, or the CSRC or the PRC Ministry of Finance, in the United States and the PRC, respectively. The PCAOB continues to discuss with the CSRC and the PRC Ministry of Finance to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from fully evaluating audits and quality control procedures of our independent registered public accounting firm. As a result, we and investors in our ADSs are deprived of the benefits of such PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections, which could cause investors and potential investors in our ADSs to lose confidence in our audits and reported financial information and the quality of our financial statements. Any occurrence of pandemic avian influenza, Ebola or other widespread public health problem, or any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. An outbreak of pandemic avian influenza or other widespread public health problem, or a renewed outbreak of SARS in China, where most of our revenues are derived, and in Beijing, where our operations are headquartered, could have a negative effect on our operations. There have been recent reports of outbreaks of an avian flu caused by the H7N9 virus, including confirmed human cases, in China. In 2014, the outbreak of Ebola fever in West Africa received considerable worldwide media attention. Experts warn that China is at serious risk of Ebola because of the large numbers of travelers from Africa as well as poor hospital standards. Our operations may be affected by a number of health-related factors, including the following: · quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations, · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and · a general slowdown in the PRC economy caused by any public health problems. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our ADSs If we fail to meet continued listing standards of NASDAQ, our ADSs may be delisted, which could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our ADSs. Our ADSs are currently traded on the Nasdaq Global Market. The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC has requirements that a company must meet in order to remain listed on NASDAQ Global Market, including maintain a minimum bid price of $1.0 per share of our ADSs and a minimum $50.0 million market value of our company. If we fail to meet any continued listing requirement, our ADSs could be subject to delisting procedures. If our ADSs were to be delisted, the liquidity of our ADSs would be adversely affected and the market price of our ADSs could decrease. Recently, the bid price of our ADSs frequently fell below $1.0 per share and the total market value of our company frequently fell below $50.0 million. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to meet the minimum requirements for listing in the future or that, had we failed to do so, we will be able to regain compliance within the period prescribed by NASDAQ. The price of our ADSs has been volatile historically and may continue to be volatile, which may make it difficult for holders to resell the ADSs when desired or at attractive prices. The trading price of our ADSs has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. The sale price of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Market ranged from $0.99 to $3.84 per ADS in 2014 and the last reported sale price on April 17, 2015 was $1.05. Our ADS price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including among other factors: · announcements of technological or competitive developments; · regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; · announcements of share repurchase program; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of our website; · addition or departure of our executive officers and key research personnel; and · sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares or ADSs. In addition, the financial markets in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. Future sales or perceived sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs by our major shareholders could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If any of our major shareholders sells, or is perceived as intending to sell, substantial amounts of our ordinary shares or ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of our outstanding stock options, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales, or perceived potential sales, by any of our major shareholders might make it more difficult for us to issue new equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and place we deem appropriate. If any of our major shareholders sells a substantial amount of ordinary shares it currently holds, the prevailing market price for our ADSs could be adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents As a foreign private issuer with ADSs listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we follow home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. As a foreign private issuer whose ADSs are listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we are permitted to follow home country corporate governance practices instead of certain NASDAQ requirements. A foreign private issuer that elects to follow its home country practice must submit to the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC a written statement from an independent counsel in such issuer’s home country certifying that the issuer’s practices are not prohibited by the home country’s laws. In addition, a foreign private issuer must disclose in its annual reports filed with the SEC each NASDAQ requirement with which it does not comply followed by a description of its applicable home country practice. As a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands with ADSs listed on the NASDAQ Global Market, we intend to follow our home country practice instead of NASDAQ requirements that mandate that: · our board of directors be comprised of a majority of independent directors; · our directors be selected or nominated by a majority of the independent directors or a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors; · our board adopt a formal written charter or board resolution addressing the director nominations process and such related matters as may be required under the U.S. federal securities laws; · the compensation of our executive officers be determined or recommended by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors; and · issuances of securities in connection with equity-based compensation of officers, directors, employees or consultants be approved by shareholders. As we are a Cayman Islands company, our shareholders may face difficulties in protecting their interests, and our ability to protect our rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, by the Cayman Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders, and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law in the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedents in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law in this area may not be as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in existence in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate laws. Moreover, under the Cayman Companies Law, for mergers and consolidations involving two Cayman Islands companies or a Cayman Islands company and an overseas company, dissenting shareholders have the right to be paid the fair value of their shares (which, if not agreed to by the parties, will be determined by the Cayman Islands court) if they follow the required procedures, subject to certain exceptions, and such rights may not be comparable to the appraisal rights that would ordinarily be available to dissenting shareholders of a U.S. company. Finally, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate shareholder derivative actions before any federal court of the United States. As a result, our shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions by our management, directors or major shareholders than would shareholders of a public company incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our shareholders may have difficulties in enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Substantially all of our current operations are conducted in China. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for our shareholders to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for our shareholders to enforce judgments obtained in U.S. courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. 33 Table of Contents There is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state due to the lack of reciprocal treaty in the PRC providing statutory recognition of judgments obtained in the United States. Furthermore, it is uncertain whether such PRC courts would be competent to hear original actions brought in the PRC against us or such persons who reside outside the United States predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Although there is some uncertainty as to the enforcement in the Cayman Islands, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of United States courts, of liabilities predicated upon U.S. federal securities laws, a final and conclusive judgment in personam of a competent foreign court, including a competent United States court, against our company based upon the agreements under which a definite sum of money is payable other than a sum payable in respect of taxes or other charges of a like nature of a fine or other similar penalty, may be the subject of enforcement proceedings in the Grand Court of the Cayman Islands under the common law doctrine of obligation by action on the debt evidenced by the judgment of such competent foreign court. A final opinion as to the availability of this remedy should be sought when the facts surrounding the foreign court’s judgment are known, but, on general principles, it would be expected that such proceedings would be successful provided that (a) the court which gave the judgment was competent to hear the action in accordance with private international law principles as applied in the Cayman Islands and (b) the judgment is not contrary to public policy in Cayman Islands, has not been obtained by fraud or in proceedings contrary to natural justice and is not based on an error in Cayman Islands law. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions, including, among other things, provisions that authorize our board of directors, without action by our shareholders, to issue preferred shares and to issue additional ordinary shares, including ordinary shares represented by ADSs. These provisions could have the effect of depriving you of an opportunity to sell your ADSs at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to acquire control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement. A holder of our ADSs may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions of a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our memorandum and articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is five days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice of a general meeting to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares to allow you to cast your vote with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast, or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if your ordinary shares are not voted as you requested. We may be required to withhold PRC income tax on the dividends we pay you (if any), and any gain you realize on the transfer of our ordinary shares and ADSs may also be subject to PRC tax if we are treated as a PRC resident enterprise. Pursuant to the EIT Law, we may be treated as a PRC resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes. See “—Risks Related to Doing Business in China—We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income” above. If we were so treated by the PRC tax authorities, we would be obligated to withhold PRC income tax on payments of dividends on our ordinary shares and ADSs to investors that are non-resident enterprises, provided that such dividends are deemed as China-sourced income. A non-resident enterprise is an enterprise that does not have an establishment or place of business in China or that has such establishment or place of business but its income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business. In addition, any gain realized by investors that are non-resident enterprises from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs may be deemed as China-sourced income and generally be subject to PRC tax. Such dividends and gains to investors that are non-resident enterprises would generally be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax, unless a reduced tax rate is provided by any applicable tax treaty and the holders have completed the relevant procedures prescribed by the PRC tax authorities to prove their beneficial owner status. 34 Table of Contents Moreover, under the PRC Individual Income Tax Law, or the IITL, if we are treated as a PRC resident enterprise, non-resident individual investors would be subject to PRC individual income tax on dividends paid to such investors and any capital gains realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares and ADSs, provided that such dividends and gains are deemed as China-sourced income. A non-resident individual is an individual who has no domicile in China and does not stay within China or has stayed within China for less than one year. Pursuant to the IITL and its implementation rules, for purposes of the PRC capital gains tax, the taxable income will be based on the total income obtained from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs after deducting all the costs and expenses that are permitted under PRC tax laws to be deducted from the income. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise and dividends paid with respect to our ordinary shares and ADSs and the gains realized from the transfer of our ordinary shares and ADSs were considered China-sourced income by relevant PRC tax authorities, such dividends and gains earned by non-resident individuals would generally be subject to PRC tax at a rate of 20%, unless a reduced tax rate is provided by any applicable tax treaty and the holders have completed the relevant procedures prescribed by the PRC tax authorities to prove their beneficial owner status. The foregoing PRC taxes may reduce your investment return on our ordinary shares and ADSs and may also affect the price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer, or register transfers of our ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law, any government, governmental body or commission or the NASDAQ Global Market, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or because of a meeting of shareholders of our company, or for any other reason. Your right as a holder of ADSs to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to our ADS holders in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, the deposit agreement provides that the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective nor is it our current intention to do so. Moreover, we may not be able to rely on an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in future rights offerings, if any, and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. 35 Table of Contents If additional remedial measures are imposed on the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in administrative proceedings brought by the SEC alleging the firms’ failure to meet specific criteria set by the SEC, we could be unable to timely file future financial statements in compliance with the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. In December 2012, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings against the “Big Four” PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder for failing to provide to the SEC such firms’ audit work papers with respect to certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. In January 2014, the administrative law judge presiding over the matter rendered an initial decision that each of the firms had violated the SEC’s rules of practice for failing to produce audit workpapers to the SEC. The initial decision censured each of the firms and barred them from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The Big Four PRC-based accounting firms appealed the judge’s initial decision to the SEC. As a result, the decision will not take effect unless and until it is endorsed by the SEC. In February 2015, the four PRC-based accounting firms each agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC and audit U.S.-listed companies. The settlement required the firms to follow detailed procedures and to seek approval from the CSRC to provide the SEC with access to such firms’ audit documents in response to future document requests by the SEC made through the CSRC. If the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, fail to comply with the document production procedures that are in the settlement agreement or if there is a failure of the process between the SEC and CSRC, the SEC retains authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures on the accounting firms, such as imposing penalties on such firms and restarting the proceedings against such firms, depending on the nature of the failure. The principal auditor of our financial statements, PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian LLP, is one of the Chinese affiliates of the “Big Four” global networks of accounting firms and is subject to the proceedings and the initial decision. If the accounting firms are subject to additional remedial measures, our ability to file our financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could be impacted. A determination that we have not timely filed financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could ultimately lead to the delisting of our ADSs from NASDAQ or the termination of the registration of our ADSs under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. 