ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Activities The risk factors set forth below are applicable to Great Wolf Resorts. You should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating our company, our properties and our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially adversely affect, among other things, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Current economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The United States economy has undergone a major recession, and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. This recession has and could further lead to reduced consumer and commercial 18 Table of Contents spending in the foreseeable future. The hospitality industry has experienced significant downturns in connection with declines in general economic conditions. A continued softening in the economy may adversely and materially affect our industry, business and results of operations and we cannot accurately predict how severe and prolonged any downturn might be. Moreover, reduced revenues as a result of a softening of the economy may also reduce our working capital and interfere with our long-term business strategy. Our business model is highly dependent on consumer spending, and a vacation experience at one of our resorts is a discretionary expenditure for a family. Over the past five years, the slowing U.S. economy has led to a decrease in credit for consumers and a related decrease in consumer discretionary spending. This trend continued through 2012 as consumers continued to deal with several negative economic conditions that have developed over the past five years including: • severe turbulence in the banking and lending sectors, which has led to a general lessening of the availability of credit to consumers; • relatively high unemployment rates and limited job creation; • a continuing decline in the national average of home prices and an increase in national foreclosure rates; and • high volatility in the stock market that led to substantial declines in stock values and aggregate household savings from 2007 to 2012. These and other factors impact the amount of discretionary income for consumers and consumer sentiment toward discretionary purchases. As a result, these types of items could negatively impact consumer spending in future periods. A sustained decrease in overall consumer discretionary spending could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able, by ourselves or with others, to develop new resorts or further develop existing resorts on a timely or cost efficient basis, which would adversely affect our growth strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we currently intend to develop, or license others to develop, additional resorts or possibly further expand certain of our existing resorts. Development involves substantial risks, including the following risks: • development costs may exceed budgeted or contracted amounts or may exceed available capital; • increases in the costs of materials or supplies used in construction of our resorts; 19 Table of Contents • changes in applicable building codes, construction materials, labor costs or construction methodologies may increase development costs; • delays in architectural or other design-related services, or in the commencement or completion of construction; • failure to obtain all necessary zoning, land use, occupancy, construction, operating and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • changes in real estate, zoning, land use, environmental and tax laws; • unavailability to us and other investors and/or developers of financing on favorable or any terms; • failure of developed properties to achieve desired revenue or profitability levels once opened; • negative changes in the local markets, the local competitive environment or in local economic conditions that occur between the commencement of development and the completion of the resort; • scarcity of suitable development sites, due to existing development, physical limitation or competition for sites from competitors that may have greater financial resources or risk tolerance than we do or other factors; and • incurrence of substantial costs in the event a development project is abandoned or modified prior to completion. In particular, resort construction projects entail significant risks, including shortages of design and construction expertise, materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, floods and unanticipated cost increases. There are also a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers of the equipment we use in our indoor waterparks. We may not be able to successfully manage any future development to minimize these risks, and present or future developments may not perform in accordance with our previous developments or our expectations. The failure to successfully develop our new resorts could have a material, adverse effect on our growth strategies and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete with other family vacation travel destinations and resorts. Our resorts compete with other forms of family vacation travel and leisure activities, including theme, water and amusement parks and other recreational activities. Our business is also subject to factors that affect the recreation and leisure and resort industries generally, such as general economic conditions and changes in consumer spending habits. We believe the principal competitive factors of a family entertainment resort include: • location, • room rates, • name recognition, • reputation, • the uniqueness and perceived quality of the attractions and amenities, • the atmosphere and cleanliness of the attractions and amenities, • the quality and perceived value of the lodging accommodations, • the quality and perceived value of the food and beverage service, • convenience, 20 Table of Contents • service levels and • reservation systems. Many of our markets have become more competitive in the past seven years, including in particular our Wisconsin Dells, Sandusky, Traverse City, Kansas City, Williamsburg, Pocono Mountains and Mason markets. We anticipate that competition within some of our markets will increase further in the foreseeable future. A number of other resort operators have announced plans to develop family entertainment resorts with indoor waterparks that may compete with some or all of our resorts. We compete for guests and for new development sites with certain of these entities that may have greater financial resources than we do and better relationships with lenders and sellers of real estate. These entities may be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage and may have greater marketing and financial resources. Further, new or existing competitors may significantly reduce their rates, as they have in the past, or offer greater convenience, services or amenities, significantly expand or improve resorts, including the addition of “thrill rides,” in markets in which we operate. Such events could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have a history of losses and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred net losses for the previous eight fiscal years. We cannot guarantee that we will become profitable. Even if we do become profitable, given the increasing competition in our industry, current economic conditions and capital-intensive nature of our business, we may not be able to sustain or increase any profitability we may achieve in the future on a quarterly or annual basis, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We may not be able to achieve or manage our expected growth, which could adversely affect our operating results. Since 1999, we have experienced substantial growth as we have grown from one resort to our current portfolio of 11 resorts at December 31, 2012. We intend to continue to develop additional resorts and manage additional licensed resorts owned either by joint ventures in which we have an equity interest or by third parties. Our anticipated growth could place a strain on our management, employees and operations. Our growth has increased our operating complexity and the level of responsibility for new and existing management. Our ability to compete effectively and to achieve and/or manage our recent and future growth effectively will depend on our ability to implement and improve financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to effect changes in our business, such as implementing internal controls to handle the increased size of our operations and hiring, training, developing and managing an increasing number of experienced management-level and other employees. Unexpected difficulties during expansion, the loss of or failure to attract and retain qualified employees or our inability to respond effectively to recent growth or plan for future expansion, could adversely affect our results of operations. We provide periodic reports as a “voluntary filer” pursuant to our contractual obligations in the indenture governing the first mortgage notes, which contractual obligations may be amended without your consent. We currently anticipate that our reporting obligations pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act will terminate after we file this Annual Report on Form 10-K because our first mortgage notes were held by fewer than 300 persons on January 1, 2013. Notwithstanding the anticipated automatic suspension of our reporting obligations pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, we intend to continue filing periodic reports with the SEC and to provide holders of our first mortgage notes with copies of any filed reports as a “voluntary filer” in compliance with the indenture governing the first mortgage notes. We expect that such periodic reports filed by us as a voluntary filer will comply fully with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC. However, we could eliminate the periodic reporting covenant in the indenture governing the first mortgage notes with the consent of the holders of at least a majority of the first mortgage notes, in which case we would no longer be obligated to file periodic reports with the SEC and may cease doing so. We currently have one resort located outside of the United States, and international expansion may cause the proportion of our international business to expand. Many factors affecting business activities outside the United States could adversely impact this business. We currently have a licensing arrangement with a resort in Canada, and our international expansion plan is to license and/or manage additional resorts that are located in foreign countries and are wholly-owned or principally owned by third parties. 21 Table of Contents Factors that could affect our international business will vary by region and market and generally include: • instability or changes in social, political and/or economic conditions that could disrupt the trade activity in the countries where our resorts are located; • the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports and exports; • changes in foreign laws and regulations; • any inability to enforce contracts or intellectual property protections under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction; • the availability of qualified labor and other resources in the relevant region; • potential and actual international terrorism and hostilities; • the adoption or expansion of trade sanctions or other similar restrictions; • tax laws and other regulations that may impede our ability to receive revenues from international resorts; • recessions in foreign economies or changes in local economic conditions; and • changes in currency valuations in specific countries or markets. The occurrence or consequences of any of these risks could affect our ability to operate in the affected regions, which could have a material, adverse effect on our growth strategies and our financial results. Accidents or injuries at our resorts, particularly in our waterparks, may subject us to liability, and accidents or injuries at our resorts or at competing resorts with waterparks could adversely affect our brand and/or our safety reputation and ability to attract customers, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to the potential risks associated with concentration of our resorts under the Great Wolf Lodge brand and the brand image associated with each geographic location. A negative public image or other adverse event which becomes associated with our Great Wolf Lodge brand could adversely affect our business and revenues. There are inherent risks of accidents or injuries at family entertainment resorts, including accidents or injuries at waterparks, particularly for young children. The lifeguards in our indoor waterparks and our other resort staff cannot prevent every accident or injury. Potential waterpark accidents and injuries include falls, cuts or other abrasions, concussions and other head injuries, sickness from contaminated water, chlorine-related irritation, injuries resulting from equipment malfunctions and drownings. One or more accidents or injuries at any of our waterparks or at other waterparks could adversely affect our safety reputation among our potential customers, decrease our overall occupancy rates, increase the cost of or make unavailable to us the appropriate liability insurance policies and increase our operating costs by requiring us to take additional measures to make our safety precautions even more visible and effective. If accidents or injuries occur at any of our resorts, we may be held liable for costs related to the injuries. We maintain insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are commercially reasonable and that are available to businesses in our industry, but we cannot be certain that our liability insurance will be adequate or available at all times and in all circumstances to cover any liability for these costs. The liability insurance carried by Great Lakes prior to our initial public offering (IPO) in 2004 may not be adequate or available to cover any liability related to incidents occurring prior to our IPO. Our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent claims and associated expenses resulting from accidents or injuries exceed our insurance recoveries. Our business is seasonal and largely dependent upon family vacation patterns, which may cause fluctuations in our revenues. Since most families with young children choose to take vacations during school breaks and on weekends, our occupancy is highest on the weekends and during months with prolonged school breaks, such as the summer months and spring break weeks in March and April. Our occupancy is generally lowest during May and September as children return to school following these prolonged breaks. As a result of these family vacation patterns, our revenues may fluctuate. In addition, adverse events occurring during our peak occupancy periods would have an increased impact on our results of operations. We may not be able to secure short-term borrowing on favorable terms, or at all. Failure 22 Table of Contents to compensate adequately for seasonality could have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition and business operations and could severely limit our expansion plans. We may not be able to attract a significant number of customers from our key target markets, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our strategy emphasizes attracting and retaining customers from the local, or drive-to, markets within a convenient driving distance from each of our resorts. Any resorts we develop or manage in the future are similarly likely to be dependent primarily on the markets in the immediate vicinity of such resorts. Regional economic difficulties, such as the issues affecting domestic automotive manufacturers and the related impact in Michigan and surrounding areas, may have a disproportionately negative impact on our resorts in the affected markets. In addition, because we are dependent to a large extent on customers who drive to our locations, a significant increase in the price of gasoline in our local markets or nationally may also increase the real or perceived cost of a vacation at our resorts and therefore have a negative effect on our ability to attract customers to our resorts. We may not be able to continue to attract a sufficient number of customers in our local markets to make our resort operations profitable. If we fail to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Because we concentrate in a single industry segment, we may be adversely affected by a downturn in that industry segment. Our assets and operations are concentrated in a single industry segment – family entertainment resorts. Our primary current strategy is to expand the number of our resorts and improve our existing resorts. Therefore, a downturn in the entertainment, travel or vacation industries, in general, and the family entertainment resort segment, in particular, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Increases in operating costs and other expense items could reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors may not be directly offset by increased room rates and other revenue. Increases in operating costs may also negatively affect the profitability of our licensed and managed resorts, which may therefore have a material, adverse effect on our license fee and management fee revenues as well as the value of our minority investments in such resorts. Our most significant operating costs are our labor, energy, insurance and property taxes. Many, and in some cases all, of the factors affecting these costs are beyond our control. Labor is our largest resort-level operating expense. As of December 31, 2012, we employed approximately 4,600 hourly-wage and salaried employees in our resorts. If we face labor shortages or increased labor costs because of increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover rates or increases in the applicable minimum wage or other employee benefits costs (including costs associated with health insurance coverage), our operating expenses could increase and our growth could be adversely affected. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including resort managers, lifeguards, waterpark maintenance professionals and resort staff. The number of qualified individuals needed to fill these positions is in short supply in some areas. Any future inability to recruit and retain sufficient individuals may delay the planned openings of new resorts. Competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. 23 Table of Contents Energy costs also account for a significant portion of our total resort-level operating expenses. The price of energy is volatile, and shortages sometimes occur. Significant increases in the cost of energy, or shortages of energy, could interrupt or curtail our operations, lower our operating margins, or both. The costs for maintaining adequate insurance coverage fluctuate and are generally beyond our control. If insurance rates increase and we are not able to pass along those increased costs to our guests through higher room rates and amenity costs, our operating margins could suffer. Most of our resorts are subject to real and personal property taxes. The real and personal property taxes on our resorts may increase or decrease as tax rates change and as our resorts are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. If property taxes increase and we are unable to pass these increased costs along to our guests through higher room rates and amenity costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flow, and there are a limited number of insurers that will underwrite coverage for resorts with indoor waterparks. We maintain comprehensive liability, fire, flood (where appropriate) and extended coverage insurance with respect to our resorts with policy specifications, limits and deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable for our operations and are available to businesses in our industry. Certain types of losses, however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to earthquakes, riots, acts of war or terrorism, or losses related to the award of punitive damages in a legal action. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose both our investment in, and anticipated cash flow from, a resort (including cash flows from our license or management agreements). If any such loss is insured, we may be required to pay a significant deductible on any claim for recovery of such a loss prior to our insurer being obligated to reimburse us for the loss or the amount of the loss may exceed our coverage for the loss. In addition, we may not be able to obtain insurance in the future at acceptable rates, or at all, and insurance may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all, including insurance for the construction and development of our resorts, especially since there are a limited number of insurance companies that underwrite insurance for indoor waterparks. We or the principal owners of our licensed and managed resorts will be required to make certain capital expenditures to maintain the quality of our resorts, and the failure to make such expenditures could materially and adversely affect our brand equity as well as our business, our financial condition and results of operations. Our resorts have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including periodic replacement of furniture, fixtures and equipment. The cost of such capital improvements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Such renovations involve certain risks, including the possibility of environmental problems, construction cost overruns and delays, the possibility that we will not have available cash to fund renovations or that financing for renovations will not be available on favorable terms, if at all, uncertainties as to market demand or deterioration in market demand after commencement of renovation and the emergence of unanticipated competition from other entities. The owners of our licensed and managed resorts will face similar risks and capital expenditure requirements, and third-party owners or licensees may be unable to access capital or unwilling to spend available capital when necessary, even if required by the terms of our management or license agreements. If we or the owners of our licensed and managed resorts do not meet those capital expenditure needs, we may not be able to maintain the quality of our resorts. If we are unable to maintain the quality of our resorts, our brand equity and guest satisfaction will be negatively affected, thereby reducing our ability to grow our business, attract new customers and drive repeat and referral business, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. The success of our resorts depends in part on our brands, logos and branded merchandise. We rely on registration and enforcement of a combination of service marks, copyrights, trademarks and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brands, logos, branded merchandise and other intellectual property. The success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand in both domestic and international markets. We also use our trademarks and other intellectual property on the Internet. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, either in print or on the Internet, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, including the failure of our brands, logos and branded merchandise to achieve and maintain market acceptance. 24 Table of Contents We have licensed our Great Wolf Lodge brand and intend to further license the brand in domestic and international markets. While we try to ensure that the quality of our brand is maintained by our current licensees, and will be maintained by any future licensees, we cannot assure that these licensees will not take actions that adversely affect the value of our intellectual property or reputation. We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. There is no guarantee that our trademark registration applications will be granted. In addition, the trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries in which we do, or intend to do, business and may never be registered in all of these countries. We may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks, and our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. We may not have taken all the steps necessary to protect our intellectual property in the United States and foreign countries. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and the risks related to foreign laws will increase as we expand internationally. Our operations may be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions and the impact of disasters. We currently operate, and in the future intend to operate, our resorts in a number of different markets, each of which is subject to local weather patterns and their effects on our resorts, especially our guests’ ability to travel to our resorts. Extreme weather conditions can from time to time have a material adverse impact upon individual resorts or particular regions. Our resorts are also vulnerable to the effects of destructive forces, such as fire, storms, high winds and flooding and any other occurrence that could affect the supply of water, gas, telephone or electricity to our resorts. Although our resorts are insured against property damage, damages resulting from acts of God or otherwise may exceed the limits of our insurance coverage or be outside the scope of that coverage. A significant decline in real estate values may have an adverse impact on our financial condition. We own significant amounts of real estate throughout the United States. A significant decline in real estate values may require us to use a significant amount of cash to reduce our debt. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or remediate any future material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable reports and prevent fraud. We believe that any control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been detected. In addition, this Annual Report on Form 10-K does not include an attestation of our registered public accounting firm regarding our internal controls over financial reporting. Sustained increases in costs of medical and other employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability. With approximately 4,900 employees, as of December 31, 2012, our profitability is substantially affected by costs of current medical benefits. In some recent years, we experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of factors beyond our control, including increases in health care costs. At least some of these factors continue to put upward pressure on the cost of providing medical benefits. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, we cannot be certain that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce the profitability of our businesses. 25 Table of Contents A failure to maintain good relationships with third-party property owners and licensees could have a material, adverse effect on our growth strategies and our business, financial condition and results of operations. We manage and/or license four of our resort properties in which we have limited or no ownership interest, and under our license-based growth strategy, we plan to increase the number of such properties as we seek to expand our operations both domestically and internationally. The viability of our management and licensing business depends, in part, on our ability to establish and maintain good relationships with third-party property owners and licensees. Third-party developers, property owners and licensees are focused on maximizing the value of their investment and working with a management company or licensor that can help them be successful. The effectiveness of our management, the value of our brand and the rapport that we maintain with our third-party property owners and licensees impact our revenue streams from our management and license agreements. If we are unable to maintain good relationships with our third-party property owners and licensees, we may be unable to renew existing agreements or expand our relationships with these owners. Additionally, our opportunities for developing new relationships with additional third parties may be adversely impacted. The nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each resort and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and license agreements may be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements in some instances. Additionally, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties such as us, which means, among other things, that property owners may assert the right to terminate management agreements even where the agreements do not expressly provide for termination. In the event of any such termination, we may need to negotiate or enforce our right to a termination payment that may not equal expected profitability over the term of the agreement. These types of disagreements are more likely during an economic downturn. We seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential joint venture partners but may not always be able to do so. Failure to resolve such disagreements may result in litigation. In addition, the terms of our management agreements and license agreements for some of our facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. Our current arrangements may not continue, and we may not be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. Finally, we are dependent on the cooperation of the owners or principal owners of our licensed and managed resorts in the development of new resorts and in the renovation of existing resorts. The failure to retain or renew management and licensing agreements or the failure of owners to develop resorts as agreed or on schedule or to make necessary capital expenditures may cause disruptions to our business plan and growth strategies and have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on the owners of the resorts we manage and license for third-party owners to fund certain operational expenditures related to those resorts, and if such funds are untimely or not paid, we are required to bear the cost. We incur significant expenditures related to the management of our managed resorts, including salary and other benefit related costs and business and employee related insurance costs for which we are reimbursed by third-party resort owners. In the normal course of business, we make every effort to pay these costs only after receiving payment from an owner for such costs. However, to the extent an owner would not be able to reimburse these costs, due to a sudden and unexpected insolvency situation or otherwise, we would be legally obligated to pay these costs directly until such time as we could make other arrangements. Although we would make every effort to reduce or minimize these costs prior to the point at which an owner could not reimburse us and we would continue to pursue payment through all available legal means, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if we were forced to bear those costs. Investing through partnerships or joint ventures may decrease our ability to manage risk. Additionally, our license fee and management fee revenue streams, as well as any joint venture equity investments, are subject to property-level indebtedness and other risks. In addition to acquiring or developing resorts, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. Joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject any resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. Alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner’s share of joint venture liabilities. 26 Table of Contents Furthermore, our current managed resorts that are subject to mortgage or construction indebtedness must be serviced by the entities owning those resorts. Future licensed or managed resorts will also likely be subject to such indebtedness. The principal owner of a licensed or managed resort may cause the entity owning the resort to incur indebtedness that may exceed the amount of debt the resort can service. In the event of a failure to service property-level indebtedness that results in a sale or foreclosure, our license and management agreements may be terminated, and any joint venture equity investment we have made in the owner will likely be lost. The loss of these agreements or investments could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under certain circumstances, our license and management agreements may be terminated by the property owners due to the sale of the property or other reasons. The termination of our current or future license or management agreements would reduce our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Because the land used by one of the resorts we operate is subject to a ground lease, termination of this lease by the lessor could cause us to lose the ability to operate this resort altogether and incur substantial costs in restoring the premises. The rights to use the land at the Grand Mound, WA resort, which is owned by a joint venture in which we have a 49% ownership interest, are based upon the joint venture’s interest under a long-term ground lease. Pursuant to the terms of the ground lease for this resort, the joint venture is required to pay all rent due and comply with all other lessee obligations. As of December 31, 2012, the terms of this ground lease (including renewal options) is 45 years. Any pledge of the joint venture’s interest in this ground lease may also require the consent of the lessor and its lenders. As a result, the joint venture may not be able to sell, assign, transfer or convey its lessee’s interest in the resort subject to the ground lease in the future absent consent of such third parties even if such transactions may be in the best interest of the joint venture’s owners. The lessor may require the lessee, at the expiration or termination of the ground lease, to surrender or remove any improvements, alterations or additions to the land at its own expense. The ground lease also generally requires the lessee to restore the premises following a casualty and to apply in a specified manner any proceeds received in connection therewith. The lessee may have to restore the premises if a material casualty, such as a fire or an act of God, occurs and the cost thereof exceeds available insurance proceeds. A failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. The hospitality industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management and property management systems and technologies we make available to our guests. These technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis. If we are unable to do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. We also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. An increase in the use of third-party Internet reservation services could adversely impact our revenues. Some of our resort rooms are booked through Internet travel intermediaries, such as Expedia.com®, Travelocity.com®, and Priceline.com®, serving both the leisure and, increasingly, the corporate travel and group meeting sectors. These intermediaries attempt to commoditize hotel rooms by aggressively marketing to price-sensitive travelers and corporate accounts and increasing the importance of general indicators of quality (such as “three-star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. These agencies apparently anticipate that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their travel services rather than to our lodging brands. Although we plan to continue to maintain and even increase the strength of our brands in the online marketplace, if the amount of sales made through Internet intermediaries increases significantly, our business and profitability may be harmed. 27 Table of Contents The illiquidity of real estate may make it difficult for us to dispose of one or more of our resorts. We may from time to time decide to dispose of one or more of our real estate assets. Because real estate holdings generally, and family entertainment resorts like ours in particular, are relatively illiquid, we may not be able to dispose of one or more real estate assets on a timely basis or at a favorable price. The illiquidity of our real estate assets could mean that we continue to operate a facility that management has identified for disposition. Failure to dispose of a real estate asset in a timely fashion, or at all, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a seasonal workforce. Our resort operations are dependent in part on a seasonal workforce. In some cases, we hire documented foreign workers to fill certain staffing needs each season and utilize visas to enable the use of foreign workers. In addition, we manage seasonal wages and the timing of the hiring process to ensure the appropriate workforce is in place. We cannot guarantee that material increases in the cost of securing our seasonal workforce will not be necessary in the future. In addition, we cannot guarantee that visas necessary to hire foreign workers who are a source for some of the seasonal workforce will be available. Increased seasonal wages or an inadequate workforce could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. A regional, national or global outbreak of influenza or other disease, such as the past international outbreak of influenza A (H1N1), could adversely affect our business and results of operations. An outbreak of influenza or other communicable disease can impact places of public accommodation, such as our resorts. In many areas, localized public-health measures were implemented as a result of outbreaks of influenza A(H1N1), including travel bans, the closings of schools and businesses, and cancellations of events. These measures, whether implemented in connection with this or another outbreak of infectious disease, especially if they become more geographically widespread or sustained over significant time periods, or if public perception of the safety or desirability of visiting our resorts is adversely impacted by these measures or by media coverage of the outbreak, could materially reduce demand for our rooms and meeting spaces and, correspondingly, reduce our revenue, negatively affecting our business and results of operations. Our future financial results could be adversely impacted by asset impairments or other charges. We are required to test our goodwill and other intangible assets at least yearly for impairment or when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of those assets may be impaired. We are also required to test our long-lived assets (such as resorts) when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of those assets may not be recoverable. During the quarter ended December 31, 2010, we recorded $18,741 of impairment charges related to our Traverse City and Kansas City resorts. We determined the carrying values of these resorts were impaired in light of the reduced estimated hold periods for the resorts. Because of the reduced estimated hold periods, we performed recoverability tests of these resorts to determine if further assessment for potential impairment was required. Based on this analysis of undiscounted cash flows, we determined the carrying value of these resorts were not recoverable. As a result, we recorded an $18,741 impairment charge to decrease the resorts’ carrying value to their estimated fair value (net of estimated disposal costs) as of December 31, 2010. During the three months ending December 31, 2012, we determined that the carrying value of our MagiQuest brand name was impaired in light of the reduced estimated revenue for CK. Because of the reduced revenue, we performed a recoverability test of our MagiQuest brand name to determine if further assessment for potential impairment was required. Based on this analysis of undiscounted cash flows, we determined the carrying value of our MagiQuest brand name intangible asset was not recoverable. As a result, we recorded a $1,200 impairment charge for the period May 5, 2012 through December 31, 2012. The amount of any future annual or interim asset impairment charges could be significant and could have a material adverse effect on our reported financial results for the period in which the charge is taken. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates – Investments in Property and Equipment.” Any operating losses resulting from impairment charges could have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. 28 Table of Contents Risks Related to Regulation Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other governmental regulations and changes in governmental rules and regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the regulations promulgated thereunder, or the ADA, all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. While we believe that our resorts are in compliance with the requirements currently in effect, we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our resorts to determine our compliance. A determination that we are not in compliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA. The resort industry is also subject to numerous federal, state and local governmental regulations including those related to building and zoning requirements, and we are subject to laws governing our relationship with our employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. In addition, changes in governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the use and operation of our resorts, including changes to building codes and fire and life safety codes, may occur. If we were required to make substantial modifications at our resorts to comply with the ADA, other governmental regulations or changes in governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face possible liability for environmental cleanup costs and damages for contamination related to our properties, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and properties are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety, including laws and regulations governing and creating liability relating to the management, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and other regulated materials. Our properties are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations that govern certain aspects of our ongoing operations. These laws and regulations control such things as the nature and volume of our wastewater discharges, quality of our water supply and our waste management practices. The costs of complying with these requirements, and of paying penalties, fines, assessments and the like related to non-compliance, as they now exist or may be altered in the future, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, the wastewater treatment plant at our Pocono Mountains resort is subject to numerous state, federal and other regulations. The cost of compliance with such regulations for penalties, remediation and other costs arising out of non compliance, can be large, as occurred in 2006 when we agreed to pay an assessment of approximately $800 and incurred other costs in excess of $1,000 to remediate wastewater discharges that were out of compliance with applicable permits and to prevent further out-of-compliance discharges. In 2010 we incurred other costs of $458 to remediate wastewater discharges that were out of compliance with applicable permits and to prevent further out-of-compliance discharges. We had no costs as it relates to remediating the wastewater discharges in 2011. In 2012, our Poconos Mountains resort paid a $27 fine for a deficiency in our wastewater management reporting. Because we own and operate real property, various federal, state and local laws may impose liability on us for the costs of removing or remediating various hazardous substances, including substances that may be currently unknown to us, that may have been released on or in our property or disposed by us at third-party locations. The principal federal laws relating to environmental contamination and associated liabilities that could affect us are the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act; state and local governments have also adopted separate but similar environmental laws and regulations that vary from state to state and locality to locality. These laws may impose liability jointly and severally, without regard to fault and whether or not we knew of or caused the release. The presence of hazardous substances on a property or the failure to meet environmental regulatory requirements may materially adversely affect our ability to use or sell the property, or to use the property as collateral for borrowing, and may cause us to incur substantial remediation or compliance costs. In addition, if hazardous substances are located on or released from one of our properties, we could incur substantial liabilities through a private party personal injury claim, a claim by an adjacent property owner for property damage or a claim by a governmental entity for other damages, such as natural resource damages. This liability may be imposed on us under environmental laws or common-law principles. We obtain environmental assessment reports on the properties we own or operate as we deem appropriate. However, the environmental assessments that we have undertaken might not have revealed all potential environmental liabilities or claims for such liabilities. It is also possible that future laws, ordinances or regulations or changed interpretations of existing laws and regulations will impose material environmental liability or compliance costs on us, that the current environmental 29 Table of Contents conditions of properties we own or operate will be affected by other properties in the vicinity or by the actions of third parties unrelated to us or that our guests could introduce hazardous or toxic substances into the resorts we own or manage without our knowledge and expose us to liability under federal or state environmental laws. The costs of defending these claims, complying with as yet unidentified requirements, conducting this environmental remediation or responding to such changed conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our resort properties may have contained, or are adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain underground storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. If hazardous or toxic substances were released from these tanks, we could incur significant costs or, with respect to tanks on our property, be liable to third parties with respect to the releases. On occasion, we may elect to participate in the development of properties that have had a history of industrial activities and/or historical environmental contamination. Where such opportunities arise, we engage third-party experts to evaluate the extent of contamination, the scope of any needed environmental clean-up work, and available measures (such as creation of barriers over residual contamination and deed restrictions prohibiting groundwater use or disturbance of the soil) for ensuring that planned development and future property uses will not present unacceptable human health or environmental risks or exposure to liabilities. If those environmental assessments indicate that the development opportunities are acceptable, we also work with appropriate governmental agencies and obtain their approvals of planned site clean-up, development activities and the proposed future property uses. We followed that process in connection with the development of our Blue Harbor Resort in Sheboygan, Wisconsin (which we sold in March 2011), where the City of Sheboygan arranged for environmental clean-up work and ongoing groundwater monitoring and we agreed to the use of a barrier preventing contact with residual contamination and implementation of a deed restriction limiting site activities. We are not aware of any environmental liability or compliance concerns at our Sheboygan resort that we believe would materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. It is possible; however, that our efforts have not identified all environmental conditions at the property or that environmental condition and liabilities associated with the property could change in the future. Future acquisitions of properties subject to environmental requirements or affected by environmental contamination could require us to incur substantial costs relating to such matters. In addition, environmental laws, regulations, wetlands, endangered species and other land use and natural resource issues affecting either currently owned properties or sites identified as possible future acquisitions may increase costs associated with future site development and construction activities or business or expansion opportunities, prevent, delay, alter or interfere with such plans or otherwise adversely affect such plans. Regulation of the marketing and sale of condominiums could adversely affect our business. We cannot be certain that prior or future sales of our condominium units will not be considered offers or sales of “securities” under federal law or the state law in the states where we desire to, or do, conduct sales or in which our properties are located. If such interests were considered to be securities, we would be required to comply with applicable state and federal securities laws, including laws pertaining to registration or qualification of securities, licensing of salespeople and other matters. We cannot be certain that we will be able to comply with the applicable state and federal securities requirements, and if the offers or sales of our condominium units are deemed to be (or have been) offers or sales of securities, such a determination may create liabilities or contingencies that could have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results, including possible rescission rights relating to the units that have been sold, which, if exercised, could result in losses and would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. Our business requires collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our guests as they are entered into, processed by, summarized by, and reported by our various information systems. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of that guest, employee, and company data is critical to us. If that data is not accurate or complete we could make faulty decisions. Our guests and employees also have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, both in the U.S. and other international jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of guest, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines and litigation. Changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. Our resorts rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing, and postal mailings. Any further restrictions in laws such as the Telemarketing Sales Rule, CANSPAM Act, and various U.S. state laws, or new federal or state laws, regarding marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of email and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. If this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could adversely impact the amount and timing of our sales. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure We and the owners and developers of our licensed and managed resorts may not be able to obtain additional financing, including extensions or refinancing of existing indebtedness, on favorable terms, if at all. We expect that we will require additional financing or have to extend or refinance our existing indebtedness over time, the amount of which will depend on a number of factors, including the number of resorts we construct or improve, the maturity dates of our existing financings, the amounts of our investments in joint ventures, additions to our current resorts and the cash flow generated by our resorts and management and licensing agreements. The terms of any additional financing we may be able to procure are unknown at this time. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on some or all of the following: • general capital market conditions; • capital providers’ perception of our growth potential and growth potential in the real estate sector in general; • our then-current debt levels; • our then-current and expected future earnings; • our cash flow; and • the market price per share of our common stock. The owners and developers of our licensed and managed resorts face similar risks, since they will require financing to construct and improve those resorts and to extend or refinance existing indebtedness. Failure to obtain sufficient financing could have a material adverse effect on our growth strategies and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any future debt financing or issuances of preferred stock that we may make will be senior to the rights of holders of our common stock, and any future issuances of common stock will result in the dilution of the then-existing stockholders’ proportionate equity interest. 31 Table of Contents The covenants under the indenture governing our first mortgage notes and our mortgage loan agreements include restrictive covenants that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. The indenture governing our first mortgage notes contains, and future financing agreements may contain, covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to take specific actions, even if we believe them to be in our best interest. These include restrictions on our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness; • make any restricted payments, such as dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; • prepay, redeem or repurchase specified indebtedness; • merge, consolidate or sell assets or enter into other business combination transactions; • make acquisitions, capital expenditure investments or other investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • incur certain liens; • use proceeds from sale of assets; • permit limitations on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us and our restricted subsidiaries; • impair the collateral; and • change our business. In addition, the terms of our mortgage loan agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and require us to meet certain financial tests. These restrictions could also have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations by significantly limiting or prohibiting us and/or our subsidiaries from engaging in certain actions, including: • the distribution of cash or the payment of dividends by our subsidiaries to us; • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness; • transferring or selling assets currently held by us; • transferring ownership interests in certain of our subsidiaries; and • reducing our tangible net worth below specified levels. In addition, the agreements governing the mortgage loan secured by our Concord resort require Great Wolf Resorts to maintain a minimum consolidated tangible net worth. Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and financial tests. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements which may contain cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing such debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations, 32 Table of Contents including our obligations under the notes. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We may not be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our Traverse City and Kansas City mortgage loan requires us to maintain a minimum debt service coverage ratio (DSCR) of 1.35, calculated on a quarterly basis. This ratio is defined as the two collateral properties’ combined trailing twelve-month net operating income divided by the greater of (i) the loan’s twelve-month debt service requirements and (ii) 8.5% of the amount of the outstanding principal indebtedness under the loan. Failure to meet the minimum DSCR is not an event of default and does not accelerate the due date of the loan. Not meeting the minimum DSCR, however, subjects the two properties to a lock-box cash management arrangement, at the discretion of the loan’s servicer. The loan also contains a similar lock-box requirement if we open any Great Wolf Lodge or Blue Harbor Resort within 100 miles of either resort, and the two collateral properties’ combined trailing twelve-month net operating income is not at least equal to 1.8 times 8.5% of the amount of the outstanding principal indebtedness under the loan. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the DSCR for this loan was 0.93. In September 2010 the loan’s master servicer implemented the lock-box cash management arrangement. That lock-box cash management arrangement currently requires substantially all cash receipts for the two resorts to be moved each day to a lender-controlled bank account, which the loan servicer then uses monthly to fund debt service and operating expenses for the two resorts on a monthly basis, with excess cash flow being deposited in a reserve account and held as additional collateral for the loan. We believe that this arrangement constitutes a traditional lock-box arrangement as discussed in authoritative accounting guidance. Based on that guidance, we have classified the entire outstanding principal balance of the loan as a current liability at December 31, 2012, since the lock-box arrangement requires us to use the properties’ working capital to service the loan, and we do not presently have the ability to refinance this loan to a new, long-term loan. Although the entire principal balance of the loan is classified as a current liability as of December 31, 2012, the loan is not in default, and the principal balance is not due currently. At our request, in October 2010 the loan was transferred to its special servicer. Given operating trends and performance at the properties during 2012, we currently expect the properties to generate sufficient cash flow so that our subsidization of debt service, if any, for 2013 will be insignificant to our overall operations. Issues affecting financial institutions could adversely affect financial markets generally as well as our ability to raise capital or access liquidity. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise necessary funding. The creditworthiness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, derivative, trading, clearing or other relationships among the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This may adversely affect the financial institutions, such as banks and insurance providers, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect our ability to raise needed funds or access liquidity. Because we have guaranteed certain mortgage-related obligations of our subsidiaries, if one or more of our subsidiaries fail to meet its obligations under the mortgage, we may be required to satisfy such obligations and such an undertaking could have an adverse affect on our financial condition. Great Wolf Resorts, Inc. has provided a $14,500 payment guarantee of the mortgage loan and related interest secured by our Concord resort. This loan requires quarterly principal payments of $125 in the first year of the loan term and $375 33 Table of Contents thereafter. The underlying cash flows from the Concord resort may not be able to satisfy the debt service obligations under the mortgage loan. In addition, the loan agreement contains various customary financial and operating debt compliance covenants, and the entity owning the Concord resort and Great Wolf Resorts, Inc. may not be able to comply with those covenants. If the borrower defaults under the loan agreement, Great Wolf Resorts, Inc. would be required to assume certain obligations under the loan, including the payment of up to $14,500 of outstanding debt amounts. While the property itself is subject to a mortgage to secure the mortgage loan, even in the event the property could be sold in a foreclosure to satisfy all or a portion of the outstanding debt, to the extent the proceeds of such sale are insufficient to satisfy the outstanding debt, we would be liable for the remaining outstanding amount. Any default as described above could therefore have a material, adverse effect on our financial condition and could materially reduce the amount of cash we have available to fund capital expenditures and growth initiatives, which could have a material, adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash, and may not have access to the cash flow and other assets of our subsidiaries to service all of our indebtedness, including our first mortgage notes, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy its obligations under such indebtedness, which actions may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on the financial condition and operating performance of us and our subsidiaries, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We and our subsidiaries may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay or refinance our indebtedness, including our first mortgage notes and our indebtedness under mortgage loan agreements. If the cash flows and capital resources of us and our subsidiaries are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we and our subsidiaries could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures or growth strategies, sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including our first mortgage notes and our mortgage debt. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. We are a holding company, and its operations are conducted through its subsidiaries, but none of the subsidiaries is obligated to make funds available to us for payment of our first mortgage notes. Accordingly, our ability to make payments on our first notes is dependent on the earnings and distributions of funds from its subsidiaries. Furthermore, the agreements governing our mortgage debt that is outstanding contain restrictions on the applicable borrower subsidiary to pay dividends or otherwise transfer assets to us unless certain financial tests are met. In particular: • the mortgage loans secured by our Kansas City, Traverse City, Poconos and Concord resorts require us to meet certain debt service covenants in order to make distributions, which in the case of the Kansas City/Traverse City loan we do not currently meet. • because of that non-compliance, on September 13, 2010 the lenders of our Kansas City/Traverse City loan have elected to exercise their right to implement a lock-box cash management arrangement, which requires substantially all cash receipts for the two resorts to be moved each day to a reserve bank account and all excess cash to be deposited in a lender-controlled account. As a result our ability to distribute cash from the resorts to us will be significantly limited for the period during which the lock-box arrangement is in effect. • the Concord loan documents require a partial payment of that loan in certain instances, all of which may reduce the amount of funds available to pay the notes. We are indirectly controlled by Apollo who will be able to make important decisions about our business and capital structure. Approximately 99.0% of the common stock of our parent is beneficially owned by investment funds affiliated with Apollo. As a result, Apollo controls our parent, which controls us, and Apollo therefore has the power to control all matters requiring approval by stockholders, including any determination with respect to a merger, a sale of all or substantially all assets, amendments to our charter, and the election of our directors. Additionally, Apollo is in the business of investing in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Apollo may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. 34 Table of Contents Forward-Looking Statements Some of the statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other information we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, are or may be deemed to be forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and are subject to the safe harbor created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, including, among others, statements regarding our future financial results or position, business strategy, projected levels of growth, projected costs and projected performance and financing needs, are forward-looking statements. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Great Wolf Resorts, Inc. and members of our management team, as well as the assumptions on which such statements are based, and generally are identified by the use of words such as “may,” “might,” “will,” “could,” “plan,” “objective,” “predict,” “project,” “potential,” “continue,” “ongoing,” “seeks,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “plans,” “intends,” “should” or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. Many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Such factors include, but are not limited to, competition in our markets, changes in family vacation patterns and consumer spending habits, regional or national economic downturns, our ability to attract a significant number of guests from our target markets, economic conditions in our target markets, the impact of fuel costs and other operating costs, our ability to develop new resorts in desirable markets or further develop and improve existing resorts on a timely and cost efficient basis, our ability to manage growth, including the expansion of our infrastructure and systems necessary to support growth, our ability to manage cash and obtain additional cash required for growth, the general tightening in the U.S. lending markets, potential accidents or injuries at our resorts, decreases in travel due to pandemic or other widespread illness, our ability to achieve or sustain profitability, downturns in our industry segment and extreme weather conditions, reductions in the availability of credit to indoor waterpark resorts generally or to us or our subsidiaries, increases in operating costs and other expense items and costs, uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage, our ability to protect our intellectual property, trade secrets and the value of our brands, and current and possible future legal restrictions and requirements. Important factors currently known to our management that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include those set forth above under the section entitled “Risk Factors” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and results of Operations.” We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. All written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Further, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to future operating results over time unless required by law. Past financial or operating performance is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future performance and you should not use our historical performance to anticipate results or future period trends. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents that we reference in this report completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. We qualify all of our forward-looking statements by each of these cautionary statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 