ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risk factors set forth below are applicable to Great Wolf Resorts. You should carefully consider the following factors in evaluating our company, our properties and our business. The occurrence of any of the following risks could materially adversely affect, among other things, our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to develop new resorts or further develop existing resorts on a timely or cost efficient basis, which would adversely affect our growth strategy. As part of our growth strategy, we currently intend to develop additional resorts and to further expand certain of our existing resorts. Development involves substantial risks, including the following risks: • development costs may exceed budgeted or contracted amounts or may exceed available capital; • increases in the costs of materials or supplies used in construction of our resorts; • changes in applicable building codes, construction materials, labor costs or construction methodologies may increase development costs; • delays in architectural or other design-related services, or in the commencement or completion of construction; • failure to obtain all necessary zoning, land use, occupancy, construction, operating and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • changes in real estate, zoning, land use, environmental and tax laws; • unavailability of financing on favorable or any terms; • failure of developed properties to achieve desired revenue or profitability levels once opened; • scarcity of suitable development sites, due to existing development, physical limitation or competition for sites from competitors that may have greater financial resources or risk tolerance than we do or other factors; and • incurrence of substantial costs in the event a development project is abandoned or modified prior to completion. In particular, resort construction projects entail significant risks, including shortages of design and construction expertise, materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, floods and unanticipated cost increases. There are also a limited number of suppliers and manufacturers of the equipment we use in our indoor waterparks. We may not be able to successfully manage our development to minimize these risks, and there can be no assurance that present or future developments will perform in accordance with our previous developments or our expectations. We compete with other family vacation travel destinations and resorts. Our resorts compete with other forms of family vacation travel and leisure activities, including theme, water and amusement parks and other recreational activities. Our business is also subject to factors that affect the recreation and leisure and resort industries generally, such as general economic conditions and changes in consumer spending habits. We believe the principal competitive factors of a family entertainment resort include: • location, • room rates, • name recognition, • reputation, • the uniqueness and perceived quality of the attractions and amenities, • the atmosphere and cleanliness of the attractions and amenities, • the quality and perceived value of the lodging accommodations, • the quality and perceived value of the food and beverage service, 22 Table of Contents • convenience, • service levels and • reservation systems. Many of our markets have become more competitive, including in particular our Wisconsin Dells, Sandusky, Mason and Traverse City markets. We anticipate that competition within some of our markets will increase further in the foreseeable future. A number of other resort operators are developing family entertainment resorts with indoor waterparks that will compete with some or all of our resorts. We compete for guests and for new development sites with certain of these entities that may have greater financial resources than we do and better relationships with lenders and sellers of real estate. These entities may be able to accept more risk than we can prudently manage and may have greater marketing and financial resources. Further, there can be no assurance that new or existing competitors will not significantly reduce their rates, as they have in the past, or offer greater convenience, services or amenities, significantly expand or improve resorts, including the addition of “thrill rides,” in markets in which we operate. Such events could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not be able to achieve or manage our expected growth, which could adversely affect our operating results. Since 1999, we have experienced substantial growth as we have grown from operating one resort to our current portfolio of ten resorts at December 31, 2007. We intend to continue to develop additional resorts and manage additional licensed resorts owned by joint ventures in which we have an equity interest and by third parties. Our anticipated growth could place a strain on our management, employees and operations. Our growth has increased our operating complexity and the level of responsibility for new and existing management. Our ability to compete effectively and to achieve and/or manage our recent and future growth effectively will depend on our ability to implement and improve financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to effect changes in our business, such as implementing internal controls to handle the increased size of our operations and hiring, training, developing and managing an increasing number of experienced management-level and other employees. Unexpected difficulties during expansion, the loss of or failure to attract and retain qualified employees or our inability to respond effectively to recent growth or plan for future expansion, could adversely affect our results of operations. Accidents or injuries in our resorts, particularly in our waterparks, may subject us to liability, and accidents or injuries at our resorts or at competing resorts with waterparks could adversely affect our safety reputation and attendance, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are inherent risks of accidents or injuries at family entertainment resorts, including accidents or injuries at waterparks, particularly for young children if their parents do not provide appropriate supervision. The lifeguards in our indoor waterparks and our other resort staff cannot prevent every accident or injury. Potential waterpark accidents and injuries include falls, cuts or other abrasions, concussions and other head injuries, sickness from contaminated water, chlorine-related irritation, injuries resulting from equipment malfunctions and drownings. One or more accidents or injuries at any of our waterparks or at other waterparks could reduce attendance at our resorts, adversely affect our safety reputation among our potential customers, decrease our overall occupancy rates, increase the cost of or make unavailable to us the appropriate liability insurance policies and increase our operating costs by requiring us to take additional measures to make our safety precautions even more visible and effective. If accidents or injuries occur at any of our resorts, we may be held liable for costs related to the injuries. We maintain insurance of the type and in the amounts that we believe are commercially reasonable and that are available to businesses in our industry, but there can be no assurance that our liability insurance will be adequate or available at all times and in all circumstances to cover any liability for these costs. There can also be no assurance that the liability insurance carried by Great Lakes prior to our IPO was adequate or available 23 Table of Contents to cover any liability related to incidents occurring prior to our IPO. Our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected to the extent claims and associated expenses resulting from accidents or injuries exceed our insurance recoveries. We have a history of losses and we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. We incurred net losses in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. We cannot guarantee that we will become profitable. Given the increasing competition in our industry and capital intensive nature of our business, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, and our failure to do so could adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our business is largely dependent upon family vacation patterns, which may cause fluctuations in our revenues. Since most families with young children choose to take vacations during school breaks and on weekends, our occupancy is highest on the weekends and during months with prolonged school breaks, such as the summer months and spring break weeks in March and April. Our occupancy is lowest during May and September as children return to school following these prolonged breaks. As a result of these family vacation patterns, our revenues may fluctuate. We may be required to enter into short-term borrowings in slower periods in order to offset such fluctuations in revenues and to fund our anticipated obligations. In addition, adverse events occurring during our peak occupancy periods would have an increased impact on our results of operations. We may not be able to attract a significant number of customers from our key target markets, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our strategy emphasizes attracting and retaining customers from the local, or drive-to, markets within a convenient driving distance from each of our resorts. Any resorts we develop in the future are similarly likely to be dependent primarily on the markets in the immediate vicinity of such resorts. Regional economic difficulties, for example the issues affecting domestic automotive manufacturers and the related impact in Michigan and surrounding areas, may have a disproportionately negative impact on our resorts in the affected markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to attract a sufficient number of customers in our local markets to make our resort operations profitable. If we fail to do so, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. Because we concentrate in a single industry segment, we may be adversely affected by a downturn in that industry segment. Our assets and operations are concentrated in a single industry segment — family entertainment resorts. Our current strategy is to expand the number of our resorts and improve our existing resorts. Therefore, a downturn in the entertainment, travel or vacation industries, in general, and the family entertainment resort segment, in particular, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Changes in consumer spending habits may affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our operations depends to a significant extent upon a number of factors relating to discretionary consumer spending, including economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment, business conditions, interest rates and taxation. There can be no assurance that consumer spending will not be adversely affected by economic conditions, thereby impacting our growth, financial condition and results of operations. Continued adverse developments affecting economies throughout the world, including a general tightening of the availability of credit, increasing interest rates, increasing energy costs, acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters, declining consumer confidence or significant declines in the stock market could lead to a further reduction in discretionary spending on leisure activities, thereby adversely affecting our business. 24 Table of Contents Increases in operating costs and other expense items could reduce our operating margins and adversely affect our growth, financial condition and results of operations. Increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors may not be directly offset by increased room and other revenue. Our most significant operating costs are our labor, energy, insurance and property taxes. Many, and in some cases all, of the factors affecting these costs are beyond our control. Labor is our primary resort-level operating expense. As of December 31, 2007, we employed nearly 3,900 hourly-wage and salaried employees in our resorts. If we face labor shortages or increased labor costs because of increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover rates or increases in the federal minimum wage or other employee benefits costs (including costs associated with health insurance coverage), our operating expenses could increase and our growth could be adversely affected. Our success depends in part upon our ability to attract, motivate and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including resort managers, lifeguards, waterpark maintenance professionals and resort staff, necessary to keep pace with our expansion schedule. The number of qualified individuals needed to fill these positions is in short supply in some areas. Any future inability to recruit and retain sufficient individuals may delay the planned openings of new resorts. Competition for qualified employees could also require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. Energy costs also account for a significant portion of our total resort-level operating expenses. The price of energy is volatile, and shortages sometimes occur. Significant increases in the cost of energy, or shortages of energy, could interrupt or curtail our operations lower our operating margins, or both. The costs for maintaining adequate insurance coverage fluctuate and are generally beyond our control. If insurance rates increase and we are not able to pass along those increased costs to our customers through higher room rates and amenity costs, our operating margins could suffer. Each of our resorts is subject to real and personal property taxes. The real and personal property taxes on our resorts may increase or decrease as tax rates change and as our resorts are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. If property taxes increase and we are unable to pass these increased costs along to our customers through higher room rates and amenity costs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition and our cash flow, and there are a limited number of insurers that will underwrite coverage for resorts with indoor waterparks. We maintain comprehensive liability, fire, flood (where appropriate) and extended coverage insurance with respect to our resorts with policy specifications, limits and deductibles that we believe are commercially reasonable for our operations and are available to businesses in our industry. Certain types of losses, however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to earthquakes, riots, acts of war or terrorism, or losses related to the award of punitive damages in a legal action. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose both our investment in, and anticipated profits and cash flow from, a resort. If any such loss is insured, we may be required to pay a significant deductible on any claim for recovery of such a loss prior to our insurer being obligated to reimburse us for the loss or the amount of the loss may exceed our coverage for the loss. In addition, we may not be able to obtain insurance in the future at acceptable rates, or at all, and insurance may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all, including insurance for the construction and development of our resorts, especially since there are a limited number of insurance companies that underwrite insurance for indoor waterparks. We will be required to make certain capital expenditures to maintain the quality of our resorts, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our resorts have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including periodic replacement of furniture, fixtures and equipment. The cost of such capital improvements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Such renovations involve certain risks, including the 25 Table of Contents possibility of environmental problems, construction cost overruns and delays, the possibility that we will not have available cash to fund renovations or that financing for renovations will not be available on favorable terms, if at all, uncertainties as to market demand or deterioration in market demand after commencement of renovation and the emergence of unanticipated competition from other entities. If we are unable to meet our capital expenditure needs, we may not be able to maintain the quality of our resorts. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brands and adversely affect our business. The success of our resorts depends in part on our brands, logos and branded merchandise. We rely on a combination of service marks, copyrights, trademarks and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brands, logos, branded merchandise and other intellectual property. The success of our growth strategy depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks and service marks in order to increase brand awareness and further develop our brand in both domestic and international markets. We also use our trademarks and other intellectual property on the Internet. If our efforts to protect our intellectual property are not adequate, or if any third party misappropriates or infringes on our intellectual property, either in print or on the Internet, the value of our brands may be harmed, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, including the failure of our brands, logos and branded merchandise to achieve and maintain market acceptance. We have licensed our Great Wolf Lodge brand and intend to further license the brand in domestic and international markets. While we try to ensure that the quality of our brand is maintained by our current licensees, and will be maintained by any future licensees, we cannot assure that these licensees will not take actions that adversely affect the value of our intellectual property or reputation. We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark registrations pending in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. There is no guarantee that our trademark registration applications will be granted. In addition, the trademarks that we currently use have not been registered in all of the countries in which we do, or intend to do, business and may never be registered in all of these countries. We cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately protect our trademarks or that our use of these trademarks will not result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. We may not have taken all the steps necessary to protect our intellectual property in the United States and foreign countries. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Our operations may be adversely affected by extreme weather conditions and the impact of disasters. We currently operate, and in the future intend to operate, our resorts in a number of different markets, each of which is subject to local weather patterns and their effects on our resorts, especially our guests’ ability to travel to our resorts. Extreme weather conditions can from time to time have a material adverse impact upon individual resorts or particular regions. Our resorts are also vulnerable to the effects of destructive forces, such as fire, storms, high winds and flooding and any other occurrence that could affect the supply of water, gas, telephone or electricity to our resorts. Although our resorts are insured against property damage, damages resulting from acts of God or otherwise may exceed the limits of our insurance coverage or be outside the scope of that coverage. A significant decline in real estate values may have an adverse impact on our financial condition. We own significant amounts of real estate throughout the United States. A significant decline in real estate values could have an impact on our ability to readily generate cash flow from the real estate to meet our debt or other obligations. 26 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting or remediate any future material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and our stock price. Our internal controls over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable reports and prevent fraud. We believe that a control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within a company have been detected. Failure to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. Sustained increases in costs of medical and other employee health and welfare benefits may reduce our profitability. With more than 4,000 employees, our profitability is substantially affected by costs of current medical benefits. In some recent years, we experienced significant increases in these costs as a result of macro-economic factors beyond our control, including increases in health care costs. At least some of these macro-economic factors may put upward pressure on the cost of providing medical benefits. Although we have actively sought to control increases in these costs, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce the profitability of our businesses. We may have disputes with our joint venture partners owning majority interests in three resorts that we manage and license. We manage and license some of our resort properties. The nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each resort and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and license agreements may be subject to interpretation and may give rise to disagreements in some instances. We seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential joint venture partners but may not always be able to do so. Failure to resolve such disagreements may result in litigation. In addition, the terms of our management agreements and license agreements for some of our facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. We cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. Because the land used by two of our resorts are subject to ground leases, termination of these leases by the lessors could cause us to lose the ability to operate these resorts altogether and incur substantial costs in restoring the premises. Our rights to use the land underlying two of our resorts are based upon our interest under long-term ground leases. Pursuant to the terms of the ground leases for these resorts, we are required to pay all rent due and comply with all other lessee obligations. As of December 31, 2007, the terms of these ground leases (including renewal options) range from 50 to 96 years. Any pledge of our interest in a ground lease may also require the consent of the applicable lessor and its lenders. As a result, we may not be able to sell, assign, transfer or convey our lessee’s interest in any resort subject to a ground lease in the future absent consent of such third parties even if such transactions may be in the best interest of our stockholders. The lessors may require us, at the expiration or termination of the ground leases, to surrender or remove any improvements, alterations or additions to the land at our own expense. The ground leases also generally require us to restore the premises following a casualty and to apply in a specified manner any proceeds 27 Table of Contents received in connection therewith. We may have to restore the premises if a material casualty, such as a fire or an act of God, occurs and the cost thereof exceeds available insurance proceeds. We are subject to the risks of brand concentration. We are subject to the potential risks associated with concentration of our resorts under the Great Wolf Lodge brand and the brand image associated with each geographic location. A negative public image or other adverse event which becomes associated with one of our brands could adversely affect its revenue and profitability. A failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position. The hospitality industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management and property management systems and technologies we make available to our guests. These technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis. If we are unable to do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. We also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. An increase in the use of third-party Internet reservation services could adversely impact our revenues. Some of our resort rooms are booked through Internet travel intermediaries, such as Expedia.com®, Travelocity.com®, and Priceline.com®, serving both the leisure and, increasingly, the corporate travel and group meeting sectors These intermediaries attempt to commoditize hotel rooms by aggressively marketing to price-sensitive travelers and corporate accounts and increasing the importance of general indicators of quality (such as “three-star downtown hotel”) at the expense of brand identification. These agencies hope that consumers will eventually develop brand loyalties to their travel services rather than to our lodging brands. Although we expect to continue to maintain and even increase the strength of our brands in the online marketplace, if the amount of sales made through Internet intermediaries increases significantly, our business and profitability may be harmed. The illiquidity of real estate may make it difficult for us to dispose of one or more of our resorts. We may from time to time decide to dispose of one or more of our real estate assets. Because real estate holdings generally, and family entertainment resorts like ours in particular, are relatively illiquid, we may not be able to dispose of one or more real estate assets on a timely basis or at a favorable price. The illiquidity of our real estate assets could mean that we continue to operate a facility that management has identified for disposition. Failure to dispose of a real estate asset in a timely fashion, or at all, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have assumed unknown liabilities in connection with the Formation Transactions. As part of the Formation Transactions, we acquired our predecessor companies subject to existing liabilities, some of which may have been unknown at the time of the closing thereof. Unknown liabilities might include liabilities for cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions, claims of vendors or other persons dealing with the entities prior to the closing of the formation transactions (that had not been asserted or threatened prior thereto), tax liabilities and accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business. The founding shareholders of our predecessor companies agreed to indemnify us with respect to claims for breaches of representations and warranties brought by us within one year following the completion of our IPO and the Formation Transactions, subject to certain limitations. Many liabilities may not have been identified by December 20, 2005, the expiration of the one-year period, and we may have no recourse against the founding shareholders or these entities for such liabilities. 28 Table of Contents We depend on Native American laws in the operation of a portion of our business. We have entered into a joint venture with the Confederated Tribes of the Chehalis Reservation in Grand Mound, Washington. That joint venture is constructing a resort on tribal land leased from the Chehalis. State and federal laws governing the business or other conduct of private citizens generally do not apply on Native American Lands. We may have limited recourse if we get into a contract dispute with the Chehalis over the leased land. Any seizure of our facilities is likely to result in a capital loss and loss of revenue to our company. Were it to occur on a large scale, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, capital resources, results of operations, and financial condition. We depend on a seasonal workforce. Our resort operations are dependent on a seasonal workforce. In some cases, we recruit outside the U.S. to fill certain staffing needs each season and utilize visas to enable the use of foreign workers. In addition, we manage seasonal wages and the timing of the hiring process to ensure the appropriate workforce is in place. We cannot guarantee that material increases in the cost of securing our seasonal workforce will not be necessary in the future. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain the visas necessary to hire foreign workers who are a source for some of the seasonal workforce. Increased seasonal wages or an inadequate workforce could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Risks Related to Regulation Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other governmental regulations and changes in governmental rules and regulations may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and the regulations promulgated there under, or the ADA, all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. While we believe that our resorts are substantially in compliance with these requirements, we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our resorts to determine our compliance. A determination that we are not in compliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants. We cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA. The resort industry is also subject to numerous federal, state and local governmental regulations including those related to building and zoning requirements, and we are subject to laws governing our relationship with our employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions and work permit requirements. In addition, changes in governmental rules and regulations or enforcement policies affecting the use and operation of our resorts, including changes to building codes and fire and life safety codes, may occur. If we were required to make substantial modifications at our resorts to comply with the ADA, other governmental regulations or changes in governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face possible liability for environmental cleanup costs and damages for contamination related to our properties, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations and properties are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety, including laws and regulations governing and creating liability relating to the management, storage and disposal of hazardous substances and other regulated materials. Our properties are also subject to various environmental laws and regulations that govern certain aspects of our ongoing operations. These laws and regulations control such things as the nature and volume of our wastewater discharges, quality of our water supply and our waste management practices. The costs of complying with these requirements, and of paying penalties, fines, assessments and the like related to non-compliance, as they now exist or may be altered in the future, could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, the wastewater treatment plant at our Poconos Mountains resort is subject to numerous state, federal and other regulations. The cost of compliance with such regulations for penalties, remediation and other costs arising out of non compliance, as occurred in 2006 when 29 Table of Contents we agreed to pay an assessment of $833 and incurred other costs in excess of $1,000 to remediate wastewater discharges that were out of compliance with applicable permits and to prevent further out-of-compliance discharges. In 2007 we incurred other costs in excess of $300 to remediate wastewater discharges that were out of compliance with applicable permits and to prevent further out-of-compliance discharges. Because we own and operate real property, various federal, state and local laws may impose liability on us for the costs of removing or remediating various hazardous substances, including substances that may be currently unknown to us, that may have been released on or in our property or disposed by us at third-party locations. The principal federal laws relating to environmental contamination and associated liabilities that could affect us are the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act; state and local governments have also adopted separate but similar environmental laws and regulations that vary from state to state and locality to locality. These laws may impose liability jointly and severally, without regard to fault and whether or not we knew of or caused the release. The presence of hazardous substances on a property or the failure to meet environmental regulatory requirements may materially adversely affect our ability to use or sell the property, or to use the property as collateral for borrowing, and may cause us to incur substantial remediation or compliance costs. In addition, if hazardous substances are located on or released from one of our properties, we could incur substantial liabilities through a private party personal injury claim, a claim by an adjacent property owner for property damage or a claim by a governmental entity for other damages, such as natural resource damages. This liability may be imposed on us under environmental laws or common-law principles. We obtain environmental assessment reports on the properties we own or operate as we deem appropriate. These reports have not revealed any environmental liability or compliance concerns that we believe would materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. However, the environmental assessments that we have undertaken might not have revealed all potential environmental liabilities or claims for such liabilities. It is also possible that future laws, ordinances or regulations or changed interpretations of existing laws and regulations will impose material environmental liability or compliance costs on us, that the current environmental conditions of properties we own or operate will be affected by other properties in the vicinity or by the actions of third parties unrelated to us or that our guests could introduce hazardous or toxic substances into the resorts we own or manage without our knowledge and expose us to liability under federal or state environmental laws. The costs of defending these claims, complying with as yet unidentified requirements, conducting this environmental remediation or responding to such changed conditions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Some of our resort properties may have contained, or are adjacent to or near other properties that have contained or currently contain underground storage tanks for the storage of petroleum products or other hazardous or toxic substances. If hazardous or toxic substances were released from these tanks, we could incur significant costs or, with respect to tanks on our property, be liable to third parties with respect to the releases. On occasion, we may elect to develop properties that have had a history of industrial activities and/or historical environmental contamination. Where such opportunities arise, we engage third-party experts to evaluate the extent of contamination, the scope of any needed environmental clean-up work, and available measures (such as creation of barriers over residual contamination and deed restrictions prohibiting groundwater use or disturbance of the soil) for ensuring that planned development and future property uses will not present unacceptable human health or environmental risks or exposure to liabilities. If those environmental assessments indicate that the development opportunities are acceptable, we also work with appropriate governmental agencies and obtain their approvals of planned site clean-up, development activities and the proposed future property uses. We have followed that process in connection with the development of our Blue Harbor Resort in Sheboygan, Wisconsin where the City of Sheboygan has arranged for environmental clean-up work and ongoing groundwater monitoring and we have agreed to the use of a barrier preventing contact with residual contamination and implementation of a deed restriction limiting site activities. To our knowledge, our work at our Sheboygan resort has been conducted in accordance with requirements imposed by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources. Based on these efforts, we are not aware of any environmental liability or compliance concerns at our Sheboygan resort that we believe would materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. It is possible; however, that our efforts have not identified all environmental 30 Table of Contents conditions at the property or that environmental condition and liabilities associated with the property could change in the future. Future acquisitions of properties subject to environmental requirements or affected by environmental contamination could require us to incur substantial costs relating to such matters. In addition, environmental laws, regulations, wetlands, endangered species and other land use and natural resource issues affecting either currently owned properties or sites identified as possible future acquisitions may increase costs associated with future site development and construction activities or business or expansion opportunities, prevent, delay, alter or interfere with such plans or otherwise adversely affect such plans. Regulation of the marketing and sale of condominiums, including a prior offer of condominiums at our Blue Harbor Resort, could adversely affect our business. Our marketing and sales of condominium units are subject to extensive regulation by the federal government and the states in which our condominiums are marketed and sold. On a federal level, the Federal Trade Commission Act prohibits unfair or deceptive acts or competition in interstate commerce. Other federal legislation to which we are or may be subject includes the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act, the Real Estate Settlement Practices Act and the Fair Housing Act. In addition, many states have adopted specific laws and regulations regarding the sale of condominiums. For example, certain state laws grant the purchaser the right to cancel a contract of purchase within a specified period following the earlier of the date the contract was signed or the date the purchaser has received the last of the documents required to be provided by the seller. No assurance can be given that the cost of qualifying under condominium regulations in all jurisdictions in which we desire to conduct sales will not be significant. The failure to comply with such laws or regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that prior or future sales of our condominium units will not be considered offers or sales of “securities” under federal law or the state law in the states where we desire to, or do, conduct sales or in which our properties are located. If such interests were considered to be securities, we would be required to comply with applicable state and federal securities laws, including laws pertaining to registration or qualification of securities, licensing of salespeople and other matters. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with the applicable state and federal securities requirements, and if the offers or sales of our condominium units are deemed to be offers or sales of securities, such a determination may create liabilities or contingencies that could have an adverse effect on our operations, including possible rescission rights relating to the units that have been sold, which, if exercised, could result in losses and would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, it is possible that the prior offer of condominiums at our Sheboygan resort by Blue Harbor Resort Condominium, LLC, a former subsidiary of Great Lakes that we refer to as Condo LLC, may not have been in compliance with federal and state securities laws. Prior to our IPO and the completion of the Formation Transactions, interests in Condo LLC held by Great Lakes were distributed to Great Lakes’ shareholders. We did not acquire Condo LLC as a part of the Formation Transactions. Although Condo LLC has taken steps to correct any potential securities laws issues in connection with these offers, we cannot assure you that we would not be held liable to some extent for the offers made by Condo LLC. Failure to maintain the integrity of internal or customer data could result in faulty business decisions, damage of reputation and/or subject us to costs, fines or lawsuits. Our business requires collection and retention of large volumes of internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information of our customers as they are entered into, processed by, summarized by, and reported by our various information systems. We also maintain personally identifiable information about our employees. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. If that data is not accurate or complete we could make faulty decisions. Our customers also have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information, and the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, both in the U.S. and other international jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant theft, loss or fraudulent use of 31 Table of Contents customer, employee or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines and litigation. Changes in privacy law could adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively. Our resorts rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing, and postal mailings. Any further restrictions in laws such as the Telemarketing Sales Rule, CANSPAM Act, and various U.S. state laws, or new federal laws, regarding marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of email and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. If this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could adversely impact the amount and timing of our sales. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure We may issue partnership units in the future that may be dilutive to, and may have preferential rights over, our common stockholders. We have formed a wholly owned operating partnership to serve as the parent entity of each of the resort-owning entities that we acquired in the formation transactions. We are the limited partner of the partnership and the sole general partner of the partnership is a wholly owned subsidiary that we have formed for that purpose. We formed the operating partnership to provide flexibility for future transactions as we execute our growth strategy. We believe that the ability to issue limited partnership units may enable us to acquire assets from sellers seeking certain tax treatment. Any additional operating partnership interests we issue may include preferred limited partnership units. Any partnership interests that we issue may be entitled to distributions of available cash that might otherwise be allocated to the execution of our business plan or generally available for future dividends, if any. In addition, any partnership interests may be convertible into our common stock, thus having a dilutive impact to our common stockholders, and may have voting or other preferential rights relative to those of our common stockholders. Our stock price has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future. On December 20, 2004, we completed our IPO. Trading markets after an initial public offering have often been extremely volatile. Since our IPO through March 4, 2008, our common stock has traded at a high of $25.88 and a low of $6.78. The following factors could cause the price of our common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in market valuations of companies in the resort or entertainment industries, generally, and the family entertainment resort segment, specifically; • fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; • issuances of common stock or other securities in the future; • the addition or departure of key personnel; • announcements by us or our competitors of new properties, acquisitions or joint ventures, or our failure to announce new properties of a type or in a quantity deemed desirable by participants in the public market; and • expectations about macroeconomic condition. Volatility in the market price of our common stock may prevent investors from being able to sell their common stock at or above the price an investor pays for our common stock. In the past, class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of those companies’ common stock. Litigation is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and company resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 32 Table of Contents The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of shares of common stock in the public market, including the shares issued in connection with our Formation Transactions, or upon the exercise of outstanding options, or if the market perceives that these sales could occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate, or to use equity as consideration for future acquisitions. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, employment agreements and Delaware law have anti-takeover effects that could prevent a change in control that could be beneficial to our stockholders, which could depress the market price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and employment agreements and Delaware corporate law contain provisions that could delay, defer, increase the costs of or prevent a change in control of us or our management that could be beneficial to our stockholders. Certain of these provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a price above the then current market price for our common stock. These provisions: • authorize our board of directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock and determine the powers, preferences and privileges of those shares without prior stockholder approval; • prohibit the right of our stockholders to act by written consent; • limit the calling of special meetings of stockholders; • impose a requirement that holders of 50% of the outstanding shares of common stock are required to amend the provisions relating to actions by written consent of stockholders and the limitations of calling special meetings; and • provide for payments to certain of our executive officers upon termination of employment within certain time periods before or after a change of control. Our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of debt we may incur, so we may become too highly leveraged. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. If we increase the level of our borrowings, then the resulting increase in cash flow that must be used for debt service would reduce cash available for distribution and could harm our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and our financial condition. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, if at all. We expect that we will require additional financing over time, the amount of which will depend on a number of factors, including the number of resorts we construct, additions to our current resorts and the cash flow generated by our resorts. The terms of any additional financing we may be able to procure are unknown at this time. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on some or all of the following: • general capital market conditions; • capital providers’ perception of our growth potential; • our then-current debt levels; • our then-current and expected future earnings; • our cash flow; and • the market price per share of our common stock. 33 Table of Contents Any future debt financing or issuances of preferred stock that we may make will be senior to the rights of holders of our common stock, and any future issuances of common stock will result in the dilution of the then-existing stockholders’ proportionate equity interest. Investing through partnerships or joint ventures decreases our ability to manage risk. In addition to acquiring or developing resorts, we have from time to time invested, and expect to continue to invest, as a co-venturer. Joint venturers often have shared control over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt or not have the financial resources to meet its obligations, or have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Consequently, actions by a co-venturer might subject any resorts owned by the joint venture to additional risk. Further, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners. Alternatively, our joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Additionally, should a joint venture partner become bankrupt, we could become liable for our partner’s share of joint venture liabilities. The covenants in our mortgage loan agreements impose significant restrictions on us. The terms of our mortgage loan agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries and require us to meet certain financial tests. These restrictions could also have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations by significantly limiting or prohibiting us from engaging in certain transactions, including: • incurring or guaranteeing additional indebtedness; • transferring or selling assets currently held by us; • transferring ownership interests in certain of our subsidiaries; and • reducing our tangible net worth below specified levels. The failure to comply with any of these covenants could cause a default under our other debt agreements. Any of these defaults, if not waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it on favorable terms, if any. We may not be able to perform on our debt guarantees. We have provided a 49% guarantee on mortgage debt obtained by the joint venture we have with Chehalis. If we were required to pay on the guarantee it could have a material negative impact on our business and financial condition. Certain of our insiders exercise considerable influence over the company. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our executive officers and directors, as a group, beneficially own approximately 4.7% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. By reason of such holdings, these stockholders acting as a group could be able to exercise significant influence over our affairs and policies, including the election of our board of directors and matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders such as mergers and significant asset sales, and their interests might not be consistent with the interests of other stockholders. Forward-Looking Statements Certain information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains, and other materials filed or to be filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, contain or will contain, forward-looking statements. All statements, other than statements of historical facts, including, among others, 34 Table of Contents statements regarding our future financial results or position, business strategy, projected levels of growth, projected costs and projected financing needs, are forward-looking statements. Those statements include statements regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Great Wolf Resorts, Inc. and members of our management team, as well as the assumptions on which such statements are based, and generally are identified by the use of words such as “may,” “will,” “seeks,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “plans,” “intends,” “should” or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and uncertainties that actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements. Important factors currently known to our management that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements include those set forth above under the section entitled “Risk Factors.” We believe these forward-looking statements are reasonable; however, undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statements, which are based on current expectations. All written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on our behalf are qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. Further, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise forward-looking statements to reflect changed assumptions, the occurrence of unanticipated events or changes to future operating results over time unless required by law. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 