D. Risk Factors An investment in our ADSs or notes involves risks. You should carefully consider the risks described below, as well as the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 20-F, before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The market or trading price of our ADSs or notes could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In addition, the risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. You should also review the section of this Form 20-F captioned “Forward-Looking Statements.” Please note that additional risks not presently known to us, that we currently deem immaterial or that we have not anticipated may also impair our business and operations. Risks related to our business Our business depends substantially on revenues from our marketing services, and participants in the real estate and home-related sectors may choose other advertising media over online advertising or other online advertisers, which could lead to a decline in our revenues. All of our marketing service revenues are generated through our websites, and we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our revenues from marketing services. Marketing services represent our largest source of revenues, accounting for 71.7%, 58.1% and 43.7% of our revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. In particular, our new home business accounted for 85.4%, 89.2% and 92.9% of our marketing service revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Our new home business primarily consists of sales of marketing services to residential property developers and their sales agents who are in the process of promoting newly developed properties for sale. Although the online marketing industry in China has been growing, advertisers in the real estate sector in China have typically relied on traditional forms of advertising media, such as newspapers, magazines and outdoor advertising. If we are unable to retain and develop our base of advertising customers, including real estate developers, our business may not grow as quickly as we expect. Moreover, advertisers may not continue to do business with us if they do not perceive our marketing services to be effective or our user demographics to be desirable. Our ability to continue to generate and maintain marketing service revenues depends on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the amount of user traffic on our websites, our ability to achieve user demographic characteristics that are attractive to advertisers, and our ability to demonstrate such user traffic and demographic characteristics through our website traffic tracking tools and reporting systems; • potential downward pressure on online marketing pricing due to increased competition from other online advertisers and traditional advertising media; and • widespread adoption of technologies that permit Internet users to selectively block unwanted web views, including advertisements on web pages. -10- If we are unable to remain competitive and provide value to our advertisers, they may stop placing advertisements with us, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future growth depends on our ability to continue to expand our e-commerce services business. Revenues from e-commerce services constituted 7.0%, 23.8% and 29.5% of our total revenues for 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively. We began to offer our paid membership services to the registered members of our SouFun cards in 2011 and our services primarily include offers to purchase properties with discounts from our partner developers and dedicated information and related services to facilitate property purchases. The business of providing SouFun membership services is still relatively new and evolving, and its growth depends on our ability to manage it effectively. Although we generally have been able to maintain contractual arrangements with third-party property developers which provide discounts to registered members of our SouFun cards on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future. In addition, we cannot control the accuracy of information provided by the property developers or how they treat our registered members in their transactions with them. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our SouFun membership services could diminish consumer confidence in and use of our services. If we are unable to maintain or increase the number of partner developers or property developments for which discounts on purchase price is offered, grow our member base and increase transaction volume, our business and revenue growth prospects could be materially and adversely impacted. If we are unable to continue to obtain listings from our key customer groups, including real estate developers, agents, brokers and property owners and managers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from our listing services. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, listing service revenues represented approximately 19.6%, 16.9% and 25.3%, respectively, of our total revenues. The success of the listing service business depends on our ability to persuade real estate developers, real estate agents, brokers and property owners and managers to list their properties on our websites. We believe having large numbers of high-quality listings from such real estate professionals attracts users to our websites, thereby enhancing our attractiveness to advertisers and other real estate market participants. However, substantially all of our listing agreements are nonexclusive. Our listing customers may stop using our listing services and may choose to use the services of one or more of our competitors or alternative means of listing, such as real estate magazines or newspapers. If owners of large numbers of property listings, such as major developers or large brokers or property owners in key real estate markets, choose not to renew their existing agreements with us, our websites could become less attractive to users. If we experience reduced user traffic on our websites, advertisers from whom we derive the largest proportion of our revenues, and other real estate market participants, may discontinue the use of or be unwilling to pay for our services. In such an event, our competitive position could be significantly weakened and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by fluctuations in, and government measures influencing, China’s real estate industry. We conduct our real estate services business primarily in China, and our business depends substantially on conditions of the PRC real estate market. In particular, our new home business, which accounted for 68.5%, 76.5% and 70.6% of our total revenues in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively, depends upon growth in the real estate-related industry nationwide and in specific regions in China. Demand for private residential property in China has grown rapidly in recent years, but such growth is often coupled with volatility in market conditions and fluctuation in property prices. Fluctuations of supply and demand in China’s real estate market are caused by economic, social, political and other factors. To the extent fluctuations in the real estate market adversely affect the demand for real estate and home-related products and services and for real estate- and home-related advertising, demand for our products and services, as well as the level of our growth and profitability, may be materially reduced. -11- The real estate market in China is typically affected by changes in government policies affecting the real estate and financial markets and related areas. In the past, the PRC government has adopted various administrative measures to curb what it perceived as unsustainable growth in the real estate market, particularly when the real estate market in China experienced rapid and significant increases in home sales as well as prices. In February 2013, for example, the State Counsel announced certain plans to address the rapid increase in property prices in certain cities since late 2012, including raising minimum down-payments and loan rates for second home buyers in cities where prices experienced a rapid increase and enforcing a 20% capital gains tax on the sale of existing homes. In addition to government policies aimed specifically at controlling growth in real estate markets in China, our business, financial condition and results of operations may also be negatively affected by other macroeconomic and regulatory measures. Any future policies in the following areas could cause a decline in home sales and prices, which in turn could affect the demand for our services and negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operation: • restrictive monetary policies adopted by the PRC government, including any significant increase in interest rates; • adverse developments in the credit markets and/or mortgage financing markets resulting from PRC government policies; • policies regarding land supply; • significant increases in transaction costs as a result of changes in PRC government policies regarding real estate transaction taxes, such as the sales tax on residential property sales by individuals within five years of purchase; • adverse changes in PRC government policies regarding the acquisition and/or ownership of real estate; • adverse changes in PRC national or local government policies or practices regarding brokerage, referral or franchise business or related fees and commissions; or • other PRC government policies or regulations that burden real estate transactions or ownership. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from several major urban centers in China, in particular, Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu, Chongqing, Tianjin and Shenzhen and we face market risk due to our concentration in these major urban areas. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from several major urban centers in China, including Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu, Chongqing, Tianjin and Shenzhen. In 2012 and 2013, we generated revenues US$256.3 million and US$367.5 million from these six urban centers, respectively, representing 59.6% and 57.7%, respectively, of our total revenues. We expect these six urban centers to continue to be important regional sources of revenues in all of our revenue categories. If any of these major urban centers experience events which negatively impact the real estate industry or online advertising, such as a serious economic downturn or contraction, a natural disaster, or slower growth due to adverse governmental policies or otherwise, demand for our services could decline significantly and our business and revenue growth prospects could be materially and adversely impacted. -12- We may fail to compete successfully against current or future competitors, which could significantly reduce our market share and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face competition from other companies in each of our primary business activities. In particular, the online real estate Internet service market in China is becoming increasingly competitive. The barriers of entry for establishing Internet-based businesses are low, thereby allowing new entrants to emerge rapidly. As the online real estate Internet service industry in China is relatively new and constantly evolving, our current or future competitors may be able to better position themselves to compete as the industry matures. We also face competition from companies in other media that offer online advertising, online listing and similar services. Any of these competitors may offer products and services that provide significant advantages over those offered by us in terms of performance, price, scope, creativity or other advantages. These products and services may achieve greater market acceptance than our service offerings, and thus weaken our brand. Increased competition in the online real estate Internet service industry in China could make it difficult for us to retain existing customers and attract new customers, and could lead to a reduction in our fees. Furthermore, our current competitors include major Internet portals in China that provide real estate Internet services, such as Sina.com and Sohu.com, which may have more established brand names, larger visitor numbers and more extensive Internet distribution channels than we do. In addition, we have faced and may continue to face strong competition from regionally focused websites providing regional real estate listings together with localized services. Any of our current or future competitors may also receive investments from or enter into other commercial or strategic relationships with larger, well-established and well-financed companies and obtain significantly greater financial, marketing and content licensing and development resources than us. Furthermore, some of our competitors receive support from local governments, which may place us at a disadvantage when competing with them in their local markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. Any failure to compete effectively in the real estate Internet services market in China would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to maintain and enhance brand awareness for our websites could lead to loss of existing customers and qualified personnel. We believe maintaining and enhancing our brand name as a leading real estate Internet company in China is a critical part of our strategy. In addition to promoting the “SouFun” brand through our direct sales force, we also intend to continue to pursue other means to enhance brand awareness, including publication of real estate research reports, event sponsorships, portal collaboration arrangements, and advertising and marketing activities. We cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful in maintaining or enhancing our brand awareness. If our brand enhancement strategy is unsuccessful, or if other brands surpass our brand in market recognition in one or more cities in which we operate, we may fail to attract new or retain existing users, customers or qualified personnel, which could materially decrease our revenues and profitability. -13- Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and competitive advantage. Our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, domain names and other intellectual property are important to our business. Unauthorized use of such intellectual property, whether owned by us or licensed to us, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and competitive advantages. We rely on intellectual property laws and contractual arrangements with our key employees and certain of our customers, collaborators and others to protect our intellectual property rights. The measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate and policing the unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive. In addition, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries in China is uncertain and still evolving, and could involve substantial risks. The laws and enforcement procedures in China are not yet well developed, and do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws and enforcement procedures in the United States and other jurisdictions. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to adequately protect the intellectual property rights that we own or use, we may lose these rights and our business, growth prospects and profitability may suffer. Regulation of the Internet industry in China, including censorship of information distributed over the Internet, may materially and adversely affect our business. China has enacted laws, rules and regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news, information or other content, as well as products and services, through the Internet. In the past, the PRC government has prohibited the distribution of information through the Internet that it deems to be in violation of applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. In particular, under regulations promulgated by the State Council, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (“MIIT”), the General Administration of Press and Publication (formerly the State Press and Publications Administration) and the Ministry of Culture, Internet content providers and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying content over the Internet that, among other things: (i) opposes the fundamental principles of the PRC constitution; (ii) compromises state security, divulges state secrets, subverts state power or damages national unity; (iii) disseminates rumors, disturbs social order or disrupts social stability; (iv) propagates obscenity, pornography, gambling, violence, murder or fear or incites the commission of crimes; or (v) insults or slanders a third party or infringes upon the lawful right of a third party. If any Internet content we offer through our consolidated controlled entities were deemed by the PRC government to violate any of such content restrictions, we would not be able to continue such offerings and could be subject to penalties, including confiscation of illegal revenues, fines, suspension of business and revocation of required licenses, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to potential liability for any unlawful actions of our customers or affiliates or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability to us, and if we are found to be liable, we may be forced to cease operation of our websites in China. -14- If any of our consolidated controlled entities fails to maintain the applicable licenses and approvals held by it under the complex regulatory environment for Internet-based businesses and online advertising businesses in China, or any of our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated controlled entities fail to pass its annual government inspection or obtain renewal of its business license, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The Internet and online advertising industries in China are still at a relatively early stage of development and are highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the PRC government, such as the State Council, MIIT, the State Administration for Industry & Commerce (“SAIC”), the General Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television, and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of the Internet and advertising industries. Moreover, new laws, rules and regulations may be adopted, or new interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations may be released, to address issues that arise from time to time. As a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the interpretation and implementation of any current and future PRC laws, rules and regulations applicable to the Internet and online advertising industries. Our consolidated controlled entities are required to obtain applicable licenses or approvals from various regulatory authorities in order to provide advertising and other value-added services and products. These licenses or approvals are essential to the operation of our business and are generally subject to annual review by the relevant PRC governmental authorities. For example, each of Beijing Internet, Beijing Technology, Beijing JTX Technology, Beijing China Index and Beijing Advertising currently holds an Internet content provider (“ICP”) license, as required under the applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations; and each of Beijing Technology, Beijing Internet, Beijing JTX Technology, Beijing China Index and Beijing Advertising currently holds an approval for operating electronic bulletin board services as required under the applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. Beijing Advertising, Beijing Internet, Shanghai Advertising and certain other consolidated controlled entities are allowed to provide marketing services in accordance with the business scope indicated in each of their respective business licenses. Some of our consolidated controlled entities, however, may be required to obtain additional licenses. For example, since our websites include online residential communities that allow visitors to post information, including graphics or weblinks to videos, other websites or data in microblogs or online discussion forums, on our websites for discussion with other users, the release of such information on our websites may be deemed as providing Internet publication services and therefore require Internet publication licenses. Similarly, if we or third parties post information that may be viewed as news information, the release of such information on our websites may be deemed as Internet news information services and therefore require Internet news information licenses. We, like many other similarly situated business operators, have been operating our businesses without such licenses. Certain of our relevant consolidated controlled entities have applied to the relevant government authorities for Internet publication licenses again in accordance with applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, and pursuant to the request by the relevant governmental authorities, we are now preparing the relevant supplementary materials for such application. In addition, we are still in discussion with the relevant government authorities on our application for, and the authorities’ issuance of, Internet news information service licenses. Under the applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, the failure to obtain and/or maintain business license, an Internet publication license and/or Internet news information service license may subject the entity to various penalties, including confiscation of revenues, imposition of fines and/or restrictions on their business operations, or the discontinuation of their operations. Although our relevant consolidated controlled entities have not received any revenues directly from Internet publication services or Internet news information services, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose any such penalties. Any such disruption in the business operations of our consolidated controlled entities could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. -15- Unexpected network interruptions or security breaches, including “hacking” or computer virus attacks, may cause delays or interruptions of service, resulting in reduced use and performance of our websites and damage our reputation and brands. Our business depends heavily on the performance and reliability of China’s Internet infrastructure, the continued accessibility of bandwidth and servers on our service providers’ networks and the continuing performance, reliability and availability of our technology platform. Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our computer and hardware systems may cause significant harm to our reputation and our ability to attract and maintain customers and visitor traffic. Major risks related to our network infrastructure include: • any breakdown or system failure resulting in a sustained shutdown of our servers, including failures which may be attributable to sustained power shutdowns, or efforts to gain unauthorized access to our systems causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware; • any disruption or failure in the national backbone network, which would prevent our customers and users from accessing our websites; • any damage from fire, flood, earthquake and other natural disasters; and • computer viruses, hackings and similar events. Computer viruses and hackings may cause delays or other service interruptions and could result in significant damage to our hardware, software systems and databases, disruptions to our business activities, such as to our e-mail and other communication systems, breaches of security and inadvertent disclosure of confidential or sensitive information, inadvertent transmissions of computer viruses and interruptions of access to our websites through the use of denial-of-service or similar attacks. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. All of our servers and routers, including back-up servers, are currently hosted by third-party service providers in Beijing and Shanghai and all information on our websites is backed up weekly. Any hacking, security breach or other system disruption or failure which occurs in between our weekly backup procedures could disrupt our business or cause us to lose, and be unable to recover, data such as real estate listings, contact information and other important customer information. We also do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our systems and do not have business interruption insurance. Moreover, the low coverage limits of our property insurance policies may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, particularly with respect to any loss of business and reputation that may occur. To improve our performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or create one or more copies of our websites to mirror our online resources, either of which could increase our expenses and reduce our net income. Breaches of security in connection with our websites could expose us to potential liability and harm our reputation. Ensuring secured transmission of confidential information through public networks is essential to maintaining the confidence of our customers and users. Our existing security measures may not be adequate to protect such confidential information. In addition, computer and network systems are susceptible to breaches by computer hackers. Security breaches could expose us to litigation and potential liability for failing to secure confidential customer information, and could harm our reputation and reduce our ability to attract customers and users. Any future security breaches, if any, may result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -16- The successful operation of our business depends upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and telecommunications networks in China. Our business depends on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China. Substantially all access to the Internet is maintained through state-controlled telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of MIIT. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through international gateways controlled by the PRC government. These international gateways are generally the only channels through which a domestic user can connect to the Internet. We cannot assure you that a more sophisticated Internet infrastructure will be developed in China. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure. In addition, the Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. We also rely on China Telecommunications Corporation (“China Telecom”), and China United Netcom (Hong Kong) Ltd (“China Unicom”) to provide us with data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines and Internet data centers to host our servers. We do not have access to alternative services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with the fixed telecommunications networks of China Telecom and China Unicom, or if China Telecom or China Unicom otherwise fails to provide such services. Any unscheduled service interruption could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and result in a decrease in our revenues. Furthermore, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by China Telecom and China Unicom. If the prices that we pay for telecommunications and Internet services rise significantly, our gross margins could be significantly reduced. In addition, if Internet access fees or other charges to Internet users increase, our user traffic may decrease, which in turn may cause our revenues to decline. You should not rely on our quarterly operating results as an indication of our future performance because our quarterly financial results are subject to fluctuations. The real estate sector in China is characterized by seasonal fluctuations, which may cause our revenues to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. The first quarter of each year generally contributes the smallest portion of our annual revenues due to reduced advertising and marketing activity of our customers in the PRC real estate industry during and around the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday, which generally occurs in January or February of each year. Furthermore, as we are substantially dependent on sales of marketing, e-commerce and listing services, our quarterly revenues and results of operations are likely to be affected by: • seasonality of the real estate market and real estate consumers’ purchasing patterns; • our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers for our marketing, e-commerce and listing services; • our ability to successfully introduce new service offerings on our platform; • the amount and timing of our operating expenses and capital expenditures; • the adoption of new, or changes to existing, governmental regulations; -17- • a shortfall in our revenues relative to our forecasts and a decline in our operating results; and • economic conditions in general and specific to the real estate industry and to China. These factors are difficult to discern in our historical results since our revenues have grown rapidly in recent years. As a result, you should not rely on our quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as indicators of likely future performance. Failure to continue to develop and expand our content, service offerings and features, and to develop or incorporate the technologies that support them, could jeopardize our competitive position. As an Internet portal company, we participate in an industry characterized by rapidly changing technology and new products and services. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop and expand our content and service offerings. We must also continue to enhance and improve the user interface, functionality and features of our websites. These efforts may require us to develop internally, or to license, increasingly complex technologies. In addition, many of our competitors are continually introducing new Internet-related products, services and technologies, which will require us to update or modify our own technology to keep pace. Developing and integrating new products, services and technologies into our existing businesses could be expensive and time-consuming. Furthermore, such new features, functions and services may not achieve market acceptance or serve to enhance our brand loyalty. We may not succeed in incorporating new Internet technologies, or, in order to do so, we may incur substantial expenses. If we fail to develop and introduce or acquire new features, functions, services or technologies effectively and on a timely basis, we may not continue to attract new users and may be unable to retain our existing users, which could affect our marketability as a popular advertising and listing media. If we are not successful in incorporating new Internet technologies, our future profitability and revenue growth could be materially and adversely affected. Our revenues and profitability could suffer if we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategies or manage our growth effectively. We intend to grow our business by rolling out our full suite of services, including marketing, listing and e-commerce services, particularly SouFun membership services, to more cities across China. We also plan to expand into new sectors. However, some of our growth strategies relate to new services and technologies for which there are no established markets in China or relate to services, technologies, new geographic markets or new businesses in which we have limited or no experience. We do not have experience providing these services and may not select the right third parties to partner with. Moreover, due to the breadth and diversity of the PRC real estate market, our business model may not be successful in new and untested markets as demand and preferences may vary significantly by region. As a result, we may not be able to leverage our experience to expand into other parts of China or to enter into businesses with respect to new products or services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully grow our business in our existing cities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to enter new geographic markets or deliver new services and technologies on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. If we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategies, our revenues and profitability may not grow as we expect, and our competitiveness may be materially and adversely affected. Increases in the volume of our website traffic as a result of our expansion into new geographic regions could also strain the capacity of our existing computer systems, which could lead to slower response times or system failures. This would cause the number of real estate search inquiries, advertising impressions, other revenue producing offerings and our informational offerings to decline, any of which could significantly reduce our revenue growth and our brand loyalty. We may need to incur additional costs to upgrade our computer systems in order to accommodate increased demand if our systems cannot handle current or higher volumes of traffic. Mismanagement of any of our services in new or existing markets or the deterioration of the quality of our services could significantly damage our brand names and reputation and adversely impact our ability to attract and retain customers and visitor traffic. -18- Our growth plans place a significant demand on our management, systems and other resources. In addition to training and managing a growing workforce, we will need to continue to develop and improve our financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The members of our senior management team, in particular, Mr. Vincent Tianquan Mo (“Mr. Mo”), our founding shareholder, director and executive chairman, have played an important role in the growth and development of our business, and if we are unable to continue to retain their services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our future success is significantly dependent upon the continued services of our senior management. In particular, Mr. Mo has played an important role in the growth and development of our business. To date, we have relied heavily on the expertise and experience of Mr. Mo and other senior management personnel in our business operations, including their extensive knowledge of the PRC real estate market, their strong reputation in the PRC real estate industry, and their relationships with our employees, relevant regulatory authorities and many of our customers. If Mr. Mo or other senior management personnel are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to locate suitable or qualified replacements and may incur additional expenses to identify their successors. In addition, if Mr. Mo or other senior management personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose our customers, and our collaboration arrangements may be disrupted, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not maintain key-man insurance for Mr. Mo or other senior management personnel. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could jeopardize our competitive position. As our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain quality sales, technical and other operational personnel in the future. We have from time to time in the past experienced, and we expect in the future to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications. We cannot assure you we will be able to attract or retain the quality personnel that we need to achieve our business objectives. If we fail to successfully attract new personnel or retain and motivate our current personnel, we may lose competitiveness and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, could materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our services and information provided on our websites do not or will not infringe patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or copyrights, or misappropriation of creative ideas or formats, or other infringement of proprietary intellectual property rights. -19- We have applied to register in China the Chinese and English dual-language “SouFun” trademark as well as “SouFun” in English and (“SouFun” in Chinese) individually. We have successfully registered such trademarks in some industry categories, but our applications for certain other industry categories conflicts with existing registrations or applications for similar trademarks by another PRC company in such industry categories. In April 2014, the Higher People’s Court of Beijing Municipality reversed a lower court’s judgment in favor of us and ordered the PRC Trademark Review and Adjudication Board of SAIC to reconsider the other PRC company’s trademark application for SOFANG” that it had previously rejected. We are currently evaluating our legal options, including appealing to the Supreme People’s Court of the PRC against the judgment of the Higher People’s Court of Beijing Municipality, which could take months or even longer to resolve. We do not currently expect our business would be materially and adversely affected even if we eventually do lose the right to use the trademark in these limited industry categories. However, due to the limited time we have had, our assessment of the impact of this judgment and the potential loss of our right to use the trademark is subject to change and the actual impact may be more significant than we currently expect. Moreover, we have previously been involved in disputes arising from alleged infringement of third parties’ copyrights on our websites, such as the use of photos or articles to which we did not have the rights, which led to judgments against us. We could be subject to similar claims, suits or judgments in the future if we post information to which we do not have the rights. Any such claims, regardless of merits, may involve us in time-consuming and costly litigation or investigation and divert significant management and staff resources. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property and may also be ordered to pay fines or monetary damages. As a result, we would be required to enter into expensive royalty or licensing arrangements or to develop alternative technologies, business methods, content or other intellectual property. We expect that the likelihood of such claims may increase as the number of competitors in our markets grows and as related patents and trademarks are registered and copyrights are obtained by such competitors. In addition, as we have expanded, and may continue to expand, our business into new geographical markets, we may be exposed to such claims in jurisdictions other than China and the scope of intellectual property protection in these overseas jurisdictions may be different from or greater than that in China. The intellectual property laws in overseas jurisdictions may also impose more stringent compliance requirements and cause more potential damages or penalties than those in China. Such claims in overseas jurisdictions, if successful, could require us to pay significant compensatory and punitive damage awards as well as expose us to costly and time-consuming litigation or investigations, all of which could materially disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our growth and profitability. We are exposed to potential liability for information on our websites and for products and services sold over the Internet and we may incur significant costs and damage to our reputation as a result of defending against such potential liability. We provide third-party content on our websites such as real estate listings, links to third-party websites, advertisements and content provided by customers and users of our community-oriented services. We could be exposed to liability with respect to such third-party information. Among other things, we may face assertions that, by directly or indirectly providing such third-party content or links to other websites, we should be liable for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other actions by parties providing such content or operating those websites. We may also face assertions that content on our websites, including statistics or other data we compile internally, or information contained in websites linked to our websites contains false information, errors or omissions, and users and our customers could seek damages for losses incurred as a result of their reliance upon or otherwise relating to incorrect information. We may also be subject to fines and other sanctions by the government for such incorrect information. Moreover, our relevant consolidated controlled entities, as Internet advertising service providers, are obligated under PRC laws and regulations to monitor the advertising content shown on our websites for compliance with applicable law. Violation of applicable law may result in penalties, including fines, confiscation of advertising fees, orders to cease dissemination of the offending advertisements and orders to publish advertisements correcting the misleading information. In case of serious violations, the PRC authorities may revoke the offending entities’ advertising licenses and/or business licenses. In addition, our websites could be used as a platform for fraudulent transactions. The measures we take to guard against liability for third-party content or information may not be adequate to exonerate us from relevant civil and other liabilities. -20- Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend and result in litigation and significant diversion of management’s attention and resources. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against these claims and suffer damage to our reputation. Potential acquisitions and limited office and training facility purchases, which form part of our strategy, may disrupt our ability to manage our business effectively, including our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations. Potential acquisitions form part of our strategy to further expand and operate our business. Acquisitions and the subsequent integration of new companies or businesses will require significant attention from our management, in particular to ensure that the acquisition does not disrupt any existing collaborations, or affect our users’ opinion and perception of our services and customer support. In addition, our management will need to ensure that the acquired business is effectively integrated into our existing operations. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in integration could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. In addition, acquisitions could expose us to potential risks, including: • risks associated with the assimilation of new operations, services, technologies and personnel; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • the diversion of resources from our existing businesses and technologies; • the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions; and • potential loss of, or harm to, relationships with employees, customers and users as a result of the integration of new businesses. In addition, in connection with our business expansion, we have acquired office space and facilities for our training and may continue to do so in the future if suitable opportunities arise. For more details on our recent office and training facility acquisitions, please see “Item 5.D. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — A. Operating Results” and “Item 4. Information on the Company—Facilities” in this Form 20-F. Acquisition of property has inherent risks, including the fluctuation of property value, which could potentially lead to potential asset write-off if the value of such properties were to substantially decrease. -21- If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which could result in harm to our business, loss of investor confidence in our financial reporting and a lower trading price of our ADSs or notes. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide accurate and timely financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We discovered in the past, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls involving deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that have required or will require improvements in our procedures on the preparation, review, approval and disclosure of financial reports. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013. See “Item 15. Control and Procedures” of this Form 20-F. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on our management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013. A number of our internal control measures were implemented or strengthened recently to improve and address deficiencies in our controls. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to continue to implement effectively these or other new or improved controls or that our management or our independent registered public accounting firm will determine that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in the future. A lack of effective internal control over financial reporting in the future could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time or as necessary to correct deficiencies or weaknesses in our controls, we may not be able to provide accurate financial statements, which could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or provide accurate financial statements, and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our ADSs. Certain of our leased property interests may be defective and we may be forced to relocate operations affected by such defects, which could cause significant disruption to our business. As of December 31, 2013, we had leased properties in approximately 100 cities in China in addition to our principal executive offices in Beijing, China. A number of these leased properties, all of which were used as offices, contained defects in the leasehold interests. Such defects included the lack of proper title or right to lease and the landlords’ failure to duly register the leases with the relevant PRC government authority. A number of lease agreements were not renewed timely. Under PRC laws, rules and regulations, in situations where a tenant lacks evidence of the landlord’s title or right to lease, the relevant lease agreement may not be valid or enforceable under PRC laws, rules and regulations, and may also be subject to challenge by third parties. In addition, under PRC laws, rules and regulations, the failure to register the lease agreement will not affect its effectiveness between the tenant and the landlord, however, such lease agreement may be subject to challenge by and unenforceable against a third party who leases the same property from the landlord and has duly registered the lease with the competent PRC government authority. Furthermore, the landlord and the tenant may be subject to administrative fines for such failure to register the lease. We have taken steps to renew lease agreements and cause our landlords to procure valid evidence as to the title or right to lease, as well as to complete the lease registration procedures. However, we cannot assure you that such defects will be cured in a timely manner or at all. Our business may be interrupted and additional relocation costs may be incurred if we are required to relocate operations affected by such defects. Moreover, if our lease agreements are challenged by third parties, it could result in diversion of management attention and cause us to incur costs associated with defending such actions, even if such challenges are ultimately determined in our favor. -22- We have limited business insurance coverage in China. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development and PRC insurance companies offer only limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not have any business disruption insurance or litigation insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may cause us to incur substantial costs and result in the diversion of our resources, as well as significantly disrupt our operations, and have a material adverse affect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Risks related to our corporate structure If the PRC government determines that the structure contracts that establish the structure for our business operations do not comply with applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties or be forced to restructure our ownership structure. As we are a Cayman Islands company and our PRC subsidiaries and their branch companies in China are treated as foreign-invested enterprises under applicable PRC laws, we are subject to ownership limitations as well as special approval requirements on foreign investment. Specifically, foreign entities are not allowed to own more than a 50% equity interest in any PRC company operating an ICP business and are only allowed to directly own 100% of the equity interest of a PRC company operating an advertising business if such foreign entity has at least three years of direct experience operating an advertising business outside China, or less than 100% of the equity interest in the advertising business if the foreign investor has at least two years of direct experience operating an advertising business outside China. Currently, we do not directly operate an advertising business outside China and cannot qualify under PRC laws, rules and regulations to invest directly in a PRC entity that provides advertising services in China and our PRC foreign-invested subsidiaries may be prohibited from providing advertising services. To comply with applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, we conduct our operations in China primarily through three of our PRC subsidiaries, SouFun Media, SouFun Network and Beijing Hong An Tu Sheng, in which wholly foreign owned enterprises (“WFOEs”) we indirectly own 100% of the equity interests, and our consolidated controlled entities. The WFOEs, 11 of our consolidated controlled entities and their respective shareholders have entered into a series of contractual arrangements, which consist of exclusive technical consultancy and service agreements, equity pledge agreements, operating agreements, shareholders’ proxy agreements, loan agreements and exclusive call option agreements (collectively, the “Structure Contracts”). See “Item 7.B. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions—Structure Contracts” of this Form 20-F. As a result of these contractual arrangements, we exercise the ability to control the consolidated controlled entities through our power to direct the activities of consolidated controlled entities that most significantly impact their economic performance, and the obligation to absorb losses of or the right to all the residual benefits of the consolidated controlled entities that could potentially be significant to these entities. Accordingly, we consolidate their results in our financial statements. Our consolidated controlled entities hold the licenses and approvals that are essential to the operation of our Internet content distribution and advertising businesses. As certain agreements with our customers for Internet content distribution and advertising services were entered into directly with our PRC subsidiaries and not our consolidated controlled entities, there can be no assurance that the PRC government will not deem our Internet content distribution and advertising business to be in violation of applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations. -23- On July 13, 2006, MIIT publicly released the Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in Operating Value-Added Telecommunications Business (the “MIIT Notice”), which reiterates certain provisions under China’s Administrative Rules on Foreign-Invested Telecommunications Enterprises prohibiting, among others, the renting, transferring or sale of a telecommunications license to foreign investors in any form. Under the MIIT Notice, holders of valued-added telecommunications business operating licenses, or their shareholders, must also directly own the domain names and trademarks used by such license holders in their daily operations. To comply with this requirement under the MIIT Notice, we terminated the trademark license agreements and domain name license agreements between Beijing Jia Tian Xia Advertising Co., Ltd. and us as well as those between Beijing SouFun Internet Information Service Co., Ltd. and us in August 2006, we have assigned all registered trademarks, trademark applications and domain names relating to “SouFun” and “Jia TianXia” to the relevant consolidated controlled entities in order to maintain their respective ICP licenses to operate as value-added telecommunication service providers. Due to a lack of interpretative materials from the authorities, we cannot assure you that MIIT will not consider our corporate structure and the contractual arrangements as a kind of foreign investment in telecommunication services, in which case we may be found in violation of the MIIT Notice. See “Item 7.B. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Related Party Transactions” of this Form 20-F. In 2011, various media sources reported that the China Securities Regulatory Commission (the “CSRC”) prepared a report proposing pre-approval by a competent central government authority of offshore listings by China-based companies with variable interest entity structures, such as ours, that operate in industry sectors subject to foreign investment restrictions. However, it is unclear whether the CSRC officially issued or submitted such a report to a higher level government authority or what any such report provides, or whether any new PRC laws or regulations relating to variable interest entity structures will be adopted or what they would provide. If the past or current ownership structures, Structure Contracts and businesses of our Company, our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated controlled entities are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws, rules or regulations, MIIT and other relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated controlled entities, whose business and operating licenses are essential to the operation of our business; • levying fines and/or confiscating our income or the income of our PRC subsidiaries and/or consolidated controlled entities; • shutting down our servers or blocking our websites; • discontinuing or restricting our operations or the operations of our PRC subsidiaries and/or consolidated controlled entities; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we, our PRC subsidiaries and/or consolidated controlled entities may not be able to comply; • requiring us, our PRC subsidiaries and/or consolidated controlled entities to restructure the relevant ownership structure, operations or contractual arrangements; and • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. -24- We cannot assure you that the relevant PRC regulatory authorities will not require that we restructure our Structure Contracts to comply with the MIIT Notice or that we can restructure our ownership structure without material disruption to our business. In addition, new PRC laws, rules and regulations may be introduced to impose additional requirements that may be applicable to our corporate structure and contractual arrangements. The imposition of any of these penalties and the effect of any new PRC laws, rules and regulations applicable to our corporate structure and contractual arrangements could materially disrupt our ability to conduct our business and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enforce the Structure Contracts. Although we believe we are in compliance with current PRC regulations, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that these contractual arrangements comply with PRC licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. PRC laws and regulations governing the validity of these contractual arrangements are open to varying interpretations and the relevant government authorities have broad discretion in interpreting these laws and regulations. We may lose the ability to utilize assets held by our consolidated controlled entities that are important to the operation of our business if any of these entities goes bankrupt or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding. Our wholly owned subsidiaries, SouFun Media, SouFun Network and Beijing Hong An Tu Sheng, are considered foreign-invested enterprises in China and are, therefore, not permitted under PRC law to hold the ICP licenses and to operate the advertising businesses that are critical to our operations. As a result, our consolidated controlled entities are the holders of the ICP licenses required for operating our websites and our advertising business in China. We do not have any direct or indirect shareholding interests in these consolidated controlled entities. They are instead held directly or indirectly by Mr. Mo, our founder and executive chairman, and Richard Jiangong Dai (“Mr. Dai”), the president, chief executive officer and a director of our Company. Mr. Dai is a nephew of Mr. Mo. Both Mr. Mo and Mr. Dai are PRC citizens. Through the Structure Contracts, we exercise management, financial and voting control over these consolidated controlled entities through our rights to all the residual benefits of the consolidated controlled entities and our obligation to fund losses of the consolidated controlled entities and also have a contractual right, to the extent permitted by PRC laws, rules and regulations, to acquire the equity interests in these entities. Consequently, if any of these consolidated controlled entities goes bankrupt and all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our consolidated controlled entities undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, the shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Contractual or other arrangements among our affiliates may be subject to scrutiny by PRC tax authorities, and a finding that we or our affiliates owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our profitability and the value of your investment. As a result of the Structure Contracts, we are entitled to substantially all of the economic benefits of ownership of the consolidated controlled entities and also bear substantially all of the economic risks associated with consolidated controlled entities. If the PRC tax authorities determine that the economic terms, including pricing, of our arrangements with our consolidated controlled entities were not determined on an arm’s length basis, we could be subject to significant additional tax liabilities. In particular, the PRC tax authorities may perform a transfer pricing adjustment, which could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of deductions recorded by our consolidated controlled entities. Such a reduction could increase the tax liabilities of our consolidated controlled entities without reducing the tax liabilities of our PRC subsidiaries. This increased tax liability could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to our consolidated controlled entities for underpaid taxes. Any of these events could materially reduce our net income. -25- Contractual arrangements, including voting proxies, with our consolidated controlled entities for our Internet content distribution and marketing businesses may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct or indirect ownership. Since the applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations restrict foreign ownership in the Internet content distribution and marketing businesses, we conduct our Internet content distribution and advertising businesses and derive related revenues through the Structure Contracts with our consolidated controlled entities. As we have no direct or indirect ownership interest in our consolidated controlled entities, these Structure Contracts, including the voting proxies granted to us, may not be as effective in providing us with control over these companies as direct or indirect ownership. If we were the controlling shareholders of these companies with direct or indirect ownership, we would be able to exercise our rights as shareholders to effect changes in the board of directors, which in turn could effect change, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, pursuant to the Structure Contracts, if any of our consolidated controlled entities or their shareholders fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may be forced to (i) incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, including the voting proxies, and (ii) rely on legal remedies available under PRC law, including exercising our call option right over the equity interests in our consolidated controlled entities, seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming monetary damages. In addition, pursuant to these Structure Contracts, if Mr. Mo or Mr. Dai were to terminate their employment with us, they would be obligated to transfer their respective share ownership in any of our consolidated controlled entities to us or our designee. If Mr. Mo or Mr. Dai were to refuse to effect such a transfer, or if they were otherwise to act in bad faith toward us, then we may have to take legal action to compel them to fulfill their contractual obligations. Furthermore, pursuant to the equity interest pledge agreements between certain of our PRC subsidiaries and the individual shareholders of our consolidated controlled entities, each individual shareholder of our consolidated controlled entity agrees to pledge his equity interests in the consolidated controlled entities to our subsidiaries to secure the relevant consolidated controlled entities’ performance of their obligations under the exclusive technical consultancy and service agreements the Structured Contracts. The equity interest pledges of shareholders of consolidated controlled entities under these equity pledge agreements have been registered with the relevant local branch of SAIC. The equity interest pledge agreements with the consolidated controlled entities’ individual shareholders provide that the pledged equity interest shall constitute security for consulting and service fees under the exclusive technical consultancy and service agreements. The scope of pledge is not be limited by the amount of the registered capital of that consolidated controlled entity. However, it is possible that a PRC court may take the position that the amount listed on the equity pledge registration forms represents the full amount of the collateral that has been registered and perfected. If this is the case, the obligations that are supposed to be secured in the equity interest pledge agreements in excess of the amount listed on the equity pledge registration forms could be determined by the PRC court as unsecured debt, which takes last priority among creditors. Such a decision could materially and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. In the event that we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, or if we experience significant time delays or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. -26- The shareholders of our consolidated controlled entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us, and if any such conflicts of interest are not resolved in our favor, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We operate through a number of consolidated controlled entities in China. Messrs. Mo and Dai together hold 100% of the equity interest in these consolidated controlled entities. The interests of Messrs. Mo and Dai as the controlling shareholders of the consolidated controlled entities may differ from the interests of our Company as a whole, as what is in the best interests of our consolidated controlled entities may not be in the best interests of us and our other shareholders. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, Messrs. Mo and Dai will act in the best interests of our Company or that conflicts of interest will be resolved in our favor. In addition, Messrs. Mo and Dai may breach or cause our consolidated controlled entities and their respective subsidiaries to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements with us. We rely on Messrs. Mo and Dai to comply with the laws of China, which protect contracts and provide that directors and executive officers owe a duty of loyalty to our Company and require them to avoid conflicts of interest and not to take advantage of their positions for personal gains. We also rely on Messrs. Mo and Dai to abide by the laws of the Cayman Islands, which provide that directors have a duty of care and a duty of loyalty to act honestly in good faith with a view to our best interests. However, the legal frameworks of China and the Cayman Islands do not provide guidance on resolving conflicts in the event of a conflict between the laws of China and the Cayman Islands regarding which corporate governance regime controls. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and Messrs. Mo and Dai, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. We are controlled by our significant shareholders and their affiliated entities, whose interests may differ from our other shareholders. As of December 31, 2013, Media Partner Technology Limited (“Media Partner”) and Next Decade Investments Limited (“Next Decade”), whose shares are held in irrevocable discretionary trusts established by Mr. Mo, together held approximately 27.8% of our outstanding share capital and approximately 72.1% of our voting power under our dual-class ordinary share structure, and were our largest shareholders. As of December 31, 2013, Apax, an investment fund, held approximately 18.2% and 5.0% of our outstanding share capital and our voting power, respectively. Media Partner and Next Decade together, as our largest shareholders, could exert substantial influence over the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matters submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations, the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our Company and might reduce the price of our ADSs or notes. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders, including the investors in the ADSs. The continuing cooperation of our significant shareholders on an on-going basis, including Media Partner and Next Decade, is important to our businesses. Without their consent or cooperation, we could be prevented from entering into transactions or conducting business that could be beneficial to us. We cannot assure you, however, that the interests of our significant shareholders would not differ from the interests of our other shareholders, including investors in the ADSs. -27- Risks related to doing business in China China’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and operations are primarily conducted in China. Accordingly, our financial condition and results of operations have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by the economic, political and social developments in relation to the Internet, online marketing and real estate industries in China. A slowdown of economic growth in China could reduce the sale of real estate and related products and services, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: a higher level of government involvement; the on-going development of a market-oriented economy; a rapid growth rate; a higher level of control over foreign exchange; and a less efficient allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth since the late 1970s, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. These measures are intended to benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by PRC government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a centrally-planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s which emphasize the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in China could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations In March 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the “New EIT Law”), which became effective on January 1, 2008. In April 2008, the relevant PRC governmental authorities released qualification criteria and application and assessment procedures for “high and new technology enterprises,” which would be entitled to a statutory tax rate of 15.0%. Currently, five of our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated controlled entities are qualified as “high and new technology enterprises.” We cannot assure you that our PRC subsidiaries or consolidated controlled entities will continue to be entitled to preferential tax rates as qualified “high and new technology enterprises” under the New EIT Law. We also cannot assure you that the tax authorities will not, in the future, discontinue any of our preferential tax treatments, potentially with retroactive effect. In the event that preferential tax treatment for any of our subsidiaries or consolidated controlled entities is discontinued, the affected entity will become subject to a 25.0% standard enterprise income tax rate, which would increase our income tax expenses and could materially reduce our net income and profitability. See also “Item 5.A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Operating Results—Results of Operations—Taxation—PRC Income Tax” of this Form 20-F. -28- We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the New EIT Law and therefore be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. We are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. Under the New EIT Law and its implementation rules, an enterprise incorporated in a foreign country or region may be classified as either a “non-resident enterprise” or a “resident enterprise.” If any enterprise incorporated in a foreign country or region has its “de facto management bodies” located within the PRC territory, such enterprise will be considered a PRC tax resident enterprise and thus will normally be subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25.0% on its worldwide income. The relevant implementing rules provide that “de facto management bodies” means the bodies which exercise substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties and other factors of an enterprise. In April 2009, the State Administration for Taxation (“SAT”) issued a Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore-Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies (“Circular 82”), which sets forth certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated enterprise is located in China. However, Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises and not those controlled by PRC individuals or foreigners in China, such as our Company. See “Item 10.D. Additional Information—Exchange Controls—Regulations relating to Foreign Exchange, Taxation and Dividend Distribution—Taxation and Dividend Distribution” of this Form 20-F. Substantially all of the members of our management are currently located in China and we expect them to continue to be located in China. Due to the lack of clear guidance on the criteria pursuant to which the PRC tax authorities will determine our tax residency under the New EIT Law, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities will treat us as a PRC resident enterprise. As a result, Jingtian & Gongcheng, our PRC legal counsel, is unable to express an opinion as to the likelihood that we will be subject to the tax applicable to resident enterprises or non-resident enterprises under the New EIT Law. If we are deemed to be a PRC tax resident enterprise, we will be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25.0% on our worldwide income, which would have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. The New EIT Law provides that dividend income between qualified resident enterprises is exempt income, which the implementing rules have clarified to mean a dividend derived by a resident enterprise on an equity interest it directly owns in another resident enterprise. It is possible, therefore, that dividends we receive through our offshore subsidiaries from our PRC subsidiaries, would be exempt income under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules if our offshore subsidiaries are deemed to be a “resident enterprise.” If we are deemed to be a PRC tax resident enterprise, we would then be obliged to withhold PRC withholding income tax on the gross amount of dividends we pay to shareholders who are non-PRC tax residents. The withholding income tax rate is 10.0% for non-resident enterprises and 20.0% for non-resident individuals, unless otherwise provided under the applicable double tax treaties between China and the governments of other jurisdictions. We rely primarily on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries, and any limitation on the ability of our subsidiaries to make payments to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business as well as our liquidity. As a holding company, we rely primarily on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries for our cash and financing requirements, which include funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. If our subsidiaries incur debt in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. -29- Our subsidiaries are primarily entities incorporated and established in China and therefore, are subject to certain limitations with respect to dividend payments. PRC regulations currently allow payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Each year, our subsidiaries in China and our consolidated controlled entities are required to allocate a portion of their after-tax profits to their respective reserve funds, until the reserves reach 50.0% of their respective registered capital. Allocations to these reserves and funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Such restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries and consolidated controlled entities to transfer funds to us could adversely limit our ability to grow, pay dividends, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our businesses or otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. Under the relevant PRC tax law applicable to us prior to January 1, 2008, dividend payments to foreign investors made by foreign-invested enterprises were exempted from PRC withholding tax. However, under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules, non-resident enterprises without an establishment in China, or whose income has no connection with their institutions and establishment inside China, are subject to withholding tax at the rate of 10.0% with respect to their PRC-sourced dividend income, subject to applicable tax agreements or treaties between the PRC and other tax jurisdictions. Similarly, any gains realized on the transfer of shares by such investors are also subject to a 10.0% PRC income tax if such gains are regarded as income from sources within China. According to the Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Arrangement on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income (the “Avoidance of Double Taxation Arrangement”), dividends derived by a Hong Kong resident enterprise from a PRC resident enterprise are subject to withholding tax at the rate of 5.0%, provided that such Hong Kong resident enterprise directly owns at least 25.0% of the equity interest in the PRC resident enterprise. However, under the New EIT Law and its implementation rules, as well as Circular No. 601 issued by SAT in October 2009 (“Circular 601”) dividends from our PRC subsidiaries paid to us through our Hong Kong subsidiaries may be subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10.0% if our Hong Kong subsidiaries cannot be considered as a “beneficial owner.” In June 2012, SAT further promulgated the Announcement on Determining the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement (“Circular 30”), which provides that the tax authorities shall make the decision based on a comprehensive consideration of all determining factors provided in Circular 601 rather than the status of a single determining factor. We recently obtained approval for a reduced withholding rate of 5.0% on the payment of dividends by two of our WFOEs until 2015. In the event that we were unable to renew this approval, the cost of moving our profits from our PRC entities outside of the PRC would increase substantially. We hold equity interests in several of our major PRC subsidiaries indirectly through subsidiaries incorporated in Hong Kong, including primarily Bravo Work, China Index Academy and China Home Holdings (HK) Limited. Neither we nor Jingtian & Gongcheng, our PRC legal counsel, is certain as to whether it is more likely than not that PRC tax authorities would require or permit Bravo Work, China Index Academy and China Home Holdings (HK) Limited to be treated as PRC resident enterprises. To the extent that Bravo Work, China Index Academy and China Home Holdings (HK) Limited are each considered a “non-resident enterprise” under the Avoidance of Double Taxation Arrangement, dividends derived by Bravo Work, China Index Academy and China Home Holdings (HK) Limited from our PRC subsidiaries may be subject to a maximum withholding tax rate of 10.0%. See “Item 10.E. Additional Information—Taxation—Regulation of Foreign Exchange, Taxation and Dividend Distribution—Taxation and Dividend Distribution” of this Form 20-F. The discontinuation of the previously available exemption from withholding tax as a result of the New EIT Law and its implementing rules have and will increase our income tax expenses and reduce our net income, and may materially reduce our profitability. -30- PRC regulations on loans to PRC entities by offshore holding companies may affect our ability to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations. On August 29, 2008, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) promulgated the Circular on the Relevant Operating Issues Concerning the Improvement of the Administration of the Payment and Settlement of Foreign Currency Capital of Foreign Invested Enterprises (“SAFE Circular 142”), regulating the conversion by a foreign-invested enterprise of foreign currency registered capital into RMB by restricting how the converted RMB may be used. SAFE Circular 142 provides that the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested enterprise may only be used for purposes within the business scope approved by the applicable governmental authority and may not be used for equity investments within the PRC. In addition, SAFE strengthened its oversight of the flow and use of the RMB capital converted from foreign currency registered capital of a foreign-invested company. The use of such RMB capital may not be altered without SAFE approval, and such RMB capital may not in any case be used to repay RMB loans if the proceeds of such loans have not been used. Violations of SAFE Circular 142 could result in severe monetary or other penalties. On November 16, 2011, SAFE promulgated the Circular of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange on Issues Relating to Further Clarification and Regulation of Certain Capital Account Items under Foreign Exchange Control (“Circular 45”) to further strengthen and clarify its existing regulations on foreign exchange control under SAFE Circular 142. Circular 45 expressly prohibits foreign invested entities, including WFOEs, from converting registered capital in foreign exchange into RMB for the purpose of equity investment, granting certain loans, repayment of inter- company loans, and repayment of bank loans which have been transferred to a third party. Further, Circular 45 generally prohibits a foreign invested entity, such as our wholly owned subsidiaries, SouFun Media and SouFun Network, from converting registered capital from foreign currencies into RMB for the payment of various types of cash deposits. If our variable interest entities require financial support from us or our PRC subsidiary in the future and we find it necessary to use foreign currency-denominated capital to provide such financial support, our ability to fund our variable interest entity’s operations will be subject to statutory limits and restrictions, including those described above. In light of the various requirements imposed by PRC regulations on loans to and direct investment in PRC entities by offshore holding companies, including SAFE Circular 142, we may not be able to obtain the necessary government approvals with respect to future loans by us to our wholly owned subsidiaries or any consolidated controlled entities or with respect to future capital contributions by us to our PRC subsidiaries. If we fail to complete such registrations or obtain such approvals, our ability to capitalize or otherwise fund our PRC operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to fund and expand our business. SouFun Media, SouFun Network, Beijing Zhong Zhi Shi Zheng and the relevant consolidated controlled entities may be subject to fines and legal or administrative sanctions in connection with dividend distributions we made between December 2007 and June 2009. On December 12, 2007, our then board of directors adopted resolutions to declare dividends in the aggregate of RMB350.0 million to our shareholders. Our then existing shareholders subsequently agreed to reduce the amount of the dividends to RMB300.0 million. On February 20, 2009, our then board of directors adopted resolutions to declare additional dividends in the aggregate of RMB300.0 million to our shareholders. Following these resolutions, between December 2007 and June 2009, we directed our wholly owned subsidiaries, SouFun Media and SouFun Network, and the entities controlled by SouFun Media and SouFun Network, including our indirect subsidiary Beijing Zhong Zhi Shi Zheng and consolidated controlled entities such as Beijing Internet, Beijing Technology, Beijing China Index, Beijing Advertising and Beijing JTX Technology, to pay an aggregate of RMB300.2 million in dividends payable by us to accounts in China designated by our then existing shareholders for the receipt of such dividend payments. These dividend payments are recorded on SouFun Media’s and SouFun Network’s accounts as other receivables due from us and are deemed as non-interest bearing loans from SouFun Media or SouFun Network to us, which are treated in China as loans to an overseas borrower. We repaid RMB40.0 million to SouFun Media in 2011 and the balance of these other receivables due from us was RMB260.2 million as of December 31, 2013. The dividend payments paid through Beijing Zhong Zhi Shi Zheng or the relevant consolidated controlled entities were recorded on SouFun Media’s and SouFun Network’s accounts as other payables to Beijing Zhong Zhi Shi Zheng and such consolidated controlled entities, which are treated in China as loans from domestic lenders. -31- Pursuant to the General Lending Code implemented in August 1996 by the People’s Bank of China (the “PBOC”), the central bank of China, commercial lending in China must be made by or through a “PRC-qualified financial institution” as defined under the General Lending Code. As none of the payors is or was at the relevant time a “PRC-qualified financial institution” as defined under the General Lending Code, the PBOC may impose a fine for non-compliance on each of the payors in an amount equal to one to five times the value of any income received from its non-compliance, and the payors may be required to terminate such loans. If the PBOC instructs these entities to terminate such overseas loans and domestic loans, we have to fully repay the overseas loans from SouFun Media and SouFun Network, and SouFun Media and SouFun Network have to fully repay the domestic loans to Beijing Zhong Zhi Shi Zheng and the relevant consolidated controlled entities. Moreover, pursuant to the PRC Foreign Currency Administration Regulations promulgated by the State Council in January 1996, and amended in August 2008, a PRC entity is required to apply for SAFE approval prior to extending commercial loans to offshore entities such as our Company. As there is no specific definition of “commercial loans” under the Foreign Currency Administration Regulations and PRC governmental authorities have not issued any implementation rules with respect to the provision of commercial loans to offshore entities. Accordingly, it is not clear whether such provision will be applied to the non-interest bearing loans described above. Under the Foreign Currency Administration Regulations, an entity may be required to correct the violation and be subject to a warning and/or a fine for the violation of the foreign registration administrative regulations. If SAFE determines that the PRC Foreign Currency Administration Regulations do apply to us, it may require SouFun Media and SouFun Network to register the overseas loans to us and require us to rectify any prior non-compliance by properly obtaining SAFE approval. SAFE may also impose a warning and/or fine based on the PRC Foreign Currency Administration Regulations. We cannot assure you that SouFun Media and SouFun Network will be able to complete the necessary registration and filing procedures required by the PRC Foreign Currency Administration Regulations. In addition, it is not clear whether SAFE may consider the making of payments in Renminbi which should have been made in foreign currency to be foreign currency arbitrage, which may be deemed a violation and may subject a violator to warnings, penalties or other sanctions. Due to a general uncertainty over the interpretation and implementation of the PRC Foreign Currency Administration Regulations as well as the broad enforcement discretion granted to SAFE, we cannot assure you that we, SouFun Media or SouFun Network will not be subject to such warnings, penalties or other administrative penalties resulting from the overseas loans. According to the New EIT Law, loan arrangements between related parties without interest are not considered arms-length transactions. Therefore, the PRC taxation authorities could impose enterprise income and business taxes on SouFun Media, SouFun Network, Beijing Zhong Zhi Shi Zheng and the relevant consolidated controlled entities for the deemed interest income with regard to the arrangements for the overseas and domestic loans. The deemed interest rate would be determined by reference to the lending rate over the relevant period published by the PBOC. We cannot assure you that we will not be subject to fines, or legal or administrative sanctions as a result of non-compliance with the General Lending Code and the Foreign Currency Administration Regulations. Further, we cannot assure you that the PRC taxation authorities will not impose enterprise income and business taxes on SouFun Media, SouFun Network, Beijing Zhong Zhi Shi Zheng and the relevant variable interest entities for any deemed interest income with respect to these loans. Because the applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations do not provide clear definitions for several key terms and because the relevant PRC regulatory authorities have significant discretion on the interpretation of such matters, we cannot predict the likelihood that the risks described here will materialize. -32- The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties, which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past 34 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC operating subsidiaries include several WFOEs, including primarily SouFun Media, SouFun Network and Beijing Hong An Tu Sheng. These PRC subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises in China. In particular, they are subject to PRC laws, rules and regulations governing foreign companies’ ownership and operation of Internet content distribution and advertising businesses as well as of the real estate sector. Such laws and regulations are subject to change, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties, which could limit the legal protections available to us and our investors. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement of such laws, or the preemption of local regulations by PRC laws, rules and regulations. Moreover, China has a civil law system based on written statutes, which, unlike common law systems, is a system in which decided judicial cases have little precedential value. Furthermore, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. The relative inexperience of China’s judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of litigation. In addition, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing laws may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement within China. All such uncertainties could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Under applicable PRC law, the Renminbi is freely convertible to foreign currencies with respect to “current account” transactions, but not with respect to “capital account” transactions. Current account transactions include ordinary course import or export transactions, payments for services rendered and payments of license fees, royalties, interest on loans and dividends. Capital account transactions include cross-border investments and repayments of the principal of loans. Accordingly, our PRC subsidiaries currently may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payment of dividends to us, without prior SAFE approval by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental authorities will not limit or eliminate the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account are still subject to limitations and require approvals from or registration with relevant government authorities. This could affect our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to obtain debt or equity financing from outside China, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. -33- Since substantially all of our revenues are denominated in Renminbi, including fees and payments from our PRC consolidated controlled entities pursuant to the Structure Contracts, existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund expenditures denominated in foreign currencies, including any dividends that our PRC subsidiaries may pay to us in the future. If SAFE determines that its foreign exchange regulations apply to us and our shareholding structure, a failure by our shareholders who are PRC citizens or residents to comply with these regulations may restrict our ability to distribute profits, restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activities or subject us to liability under PRC laws, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Circular on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fundraising and Return Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, which became effective as of November 1, 2005 and was supplemented by an implementing notice issued on November 24, 2005. We refer to them collectively as “Circular 75”. To further clarify and simplify the implementation of Circular 75, SAFE issued the Circular on Further Improving and Adjusting the Policies on Administration of Foreign Exchange under Direct Investment (“Circular 59”), effective on December 17, 2012. Under Circular 75 and Circular 59, PRC residents and citizens must register with the relevant local SAFE branch prior to their establishment or control of an offshore entity established for the purpose of an overseas equity financing involving onshore assets or equity interests held by them, and must also make filings with SAFE thereafter upon the occurrence of certain material capital changes. The registration and filing procedures under Circular 75 are prerequisites for other approval and registration procedures necessary for capital inflow from the offshore entity, such as inbound investments or shareholders’ loans, or capital outflow to the offshore entity, such as the payment of profits or dividends, liquidating distributions, equity sale proceeds or the return of funds upon a capital reduction. The interpretation and implementation of Circular 75 involve significant uncertainty. For example, the shares of Media Partner and Next Decade, two of our shareholders, are held in irrevocable discretionary family trusts established by Mr. Mo, of which Mr. Mo has represented that none of the trustees and beneficial owners is a PRC resident. However, since Mr. Mo, a PRC resident, was our indirect shareholder before the establishment of the family trusts, we have not been able to obtain confirmation from SAFE as to whether Circular 75 applies to us or Mr. Mo. We cannot predict how Circular 75 will affect our business operations or future strategies. If SAFE determines that Circular 75 does apply to us, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as any remittance of dividends or foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 requirements of our PRC resident shareholders. We cannot assure you that our PRC resident shareholders will be able to complete the necessary registration and filing procedures required by Circular 75. If Circular 75 is determined to apply to us or any of our PRC resident shareholders, a failure by any of our shareholders or beneficiary owners to comply with Circular 75 may subject the relevant shareholders or beneficiaries to penalties under PRC foreign exchange administrative regulations, and may subject us to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity as well as our ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to our shareholders. -34- Regulations in the PRC may make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies promulgated the Regulations on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors (the “M&A Rules”), which became effective on September 8, 2006 and was amended on June 22, 2009. The M&A Rules and other regulations and rules concerning mergers and acquisitions established additional procedures and requirements that could make merger and acquisition activities by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex. For example, the M&A Rules require that the Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”) be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction in which a foreign investor takes control of a PRC domestic enterprise or a foreign company with substantial PRC operations, if certain thresholds under the Provisions on Thresholds for Prior Notification of Concentrations of Undertakings, issued by the State Council on August 3, 2008, are triggered. According to the Notice regarding the Establishment of the Security Review System for Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors issued by the General Office of the State Council in February 2011 and the Implementing Rules Concerning Security Review on the Mergers and Acquisitions by Foreign Investors of Domestic Enterprises issued by MOFCOM in August 2011, mergers and acquisitions by foreign investors involved in an industry related to national security are subject to strict review by MOFCOM. These rules also prohibit any transactions attempting to bypass such security review, including by controlling entities through contractual arrangements. We believe that our business is not in an industry related to national security. However, we cannot preclude the possibility that MOFCOM or other government agencies may publish interpretations contrary to our understanding or broaden the scope of such security review in the future. Although we have no current plans to make any acquisitions, we may elect to grow our business in the future in part by directly acquiring complementary businesses in China. Complying with the requirements of these regulations to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from MOFCOM, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions. We may be subject to fines and legal or administrative sanctions if we or our PRC citizen employees fail to comply with PRC regulations with respect to the registration of such employees’ share options and restricted share units. In February 2012, SAFE promulgated the Notices on Issues concerning the Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas Publicly-Listed Company (the “Stock Option Rule”). Under the Stock Option Rule, a Chinese entity’s directors, supervisors, senior management officers, other staff, or individuals which have an employment or labor relationship with such Chinese entity who are granted stock options by an overseas publicly listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures. Our local employees who have been granted stock options are subject to these regulations. We have designated our relevant PRC subsidiaries to handle the registration and other procedures required by the Stock Option Rule. If we or our PRC option holders fail to comply with these rules, we and our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. See “Item 4.B. Information on the Company—Business Overview—Regulation—Regulations relating to Employee Share Options” of this Form 20-F. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst & Young Hua Ming LLP, which issues the audit reports included in certain of our reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), (“PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. -35- Inspection of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of independent registered public accounting firms operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. Recent action being taken by the SEC against the PRC affiliates of the Big Four accounting firms, including our auditor, could create additional uncertainty about the status of audits of U.S.-listed PRC-based companies and may materially and adversely affect the liquidity and value of our ADSs. In December 2012, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings against five PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ audit papers and other documents related certain PRC-based companies that were publicly traded in the United States and which were the subject of certain ongoing SEC investigations. On January 22, 2014, an administrative law judge issued a decision, censuring these accounting firms and suspending four of the five firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months, including our independent registered public accounting firm. The administrative law judge’s decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until reviewed and approved by the SEC. On February 12, 2014, the accounting firms filed an appeal with the SEC regarding the administrative law judge’s decision. The sanction will not become effective until after a full appeal process is concluded and a final decision is issued by the SEC. The accounting firms can also further appeal the final decision of the SEC through the federal appellate courts. On May 24, 2013, PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC, and the Ministry of Finance which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations in the United States and China. However, it is not clear how the CSRC and the Ministry of Finance will react to the January 22, 2014 decision and whether the Memorandum of Understanding could affect the SEC’s final decision in the case against the five accounting firms or any subsequent appeal to courts that the accounting firms may initiate. Therefore, it is difficult to determine the final outcome of the administrative proceedings and the potential consequences thereof. We were not and are not the subject of any SEC investigations regarding the independent accounting firms nor are we involved in the proceedings brought by the SEC against the accounting firms. If the SEC is successful in the proceedings, it could result in the accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm losing, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC. While we cannot predict the outcome of the SEC’s proceedings, if the accounting firms including our independent registered public accounting firm were denied, temporarily or permanently, the ability to practice before the SEC, and we are unable to find timely another registered public accounting firm which can audit and issue a report on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined to not be in compliance with the requirements for financial statements of public companies registered under the Exchange Act of. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delisting of our common stock from the New York Stock Exchange or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our common stock in the United States. -36- Fluctuations in the exchange rates of the Renminbi could materially and adversely affect the value of our shares, ADSs or notes and result in foreign currency exchange losses. Substantially all of our revenues, cash and cash equivalent assets, costs and expenses, are denominated in Renminbi, and the functional currency of our principal operating subsidiaries and consolidated controlled entities is the Renminbi. On the other hand, a portion of our expenditures are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the U.S. dollar, and we use the U.S. dollar as our functional and reporting currency. The ADSs and our notes are also traded in U.S. dollars. As a result, the value of your investment in our ADSs or notes will be affected by fluctuations in exchange rates, particularly appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies, without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. The exchange rates between the Renminbi and the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies are affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions. In July 2005, the PRC government discontinued pegging the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. However, the PBOC regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate. Nevertheless, under China’s current exchange rate regime, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future the PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we declare and distribute that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. To the extent that we need to convert future financing proceeds into Renminbi for our operations, any appreciation of the Renminbi against the relevant foreign currencies would materially reduce the Renminbi amounts we would receive from the conversion. On the other hand, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments of dividends on our shares or for other business purposes when the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the amounts of U.S. dollars we would receive from such conversion would be reduced. In addition, any depreciation of our U.S. dollar-denominated monetary assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of our assets. In addition, very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us or our management. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. We conduct our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, certain of our directors and executive officers reside within China, and most of the assets of these persons are located within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these directors, and executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Jingtian & Gongcheng, our PRC legal counsel, has advised us that the recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments are provided for under the PRC Civil Procedure Law. PRC courts may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedure Law based either on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. Currently, there are no treaties between the United States and China for the recognition or enforcement of U.S. court judgments in China. As a result, recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court in the United States or any other jurisdiction in relation to any matter not subject to a binding arbitration agreement may be difficult. Pursuant to the PRC Civil Procedure Law, any matter, including matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws, in relation to assets or personal relationships may be brought as an original action in China, only if the institution of such action satisfies the conditions specified in the PRC Civil Procedure Law. As a result of the conditions set forth in the PRC Civil Procedure Law and the discretion of the PRC courts to determine whether the conditions are satisfied and whether to accept the action for adjudication, there remains uncertainty as to whether an investor will be able to bring an original action in a PRC court based on U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, in the event that foreign judgments contravene the basic principles of laws of China, endanger PRC state sovereignty or security, or are in conflict with the public interest of China, PRC courts will not recognize and enforce such foreign judgments. -37- Risks related to our notes, ADSs and ordinary shares The market price movement of our ADSs and notes may be volatile. The market prices of our ADSs and/or notes may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Among the factors that could affect the prices of our ADSs and/or notes are risk factors described in this section and other factors, including: • announcements of competitive developments; • regulatory developments in our target markets in China which affect us, our users, our customers or our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations; • failure of our quarterly financial and results of operations to meet market expectations or failure to meet our previously announced guidance; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other Internet or online real estate and home-related services companies; • additions or departures of our executive officers and other key personnel; • announcements regarding intellectual property litigation (or potential litigation) involving us or any of our directors and officers; • negative publicity and short seller reports that make allegations against us or our affiliates, even if unfounded; • fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi; • fluctuations in short or long-term interest rates; and/or • sales or perceived sales of additional ordinary shares, ADSs or notes, including under the registration statement we have on file with the SEC to enable certain of our affiliates to sell their shares. -38- In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular industries or companies. For example, the capital and credit markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption in recent years. In September 2008, such volatility and disruption reached extreme levels and developed into a global crisis. As a result, stock prices of a broad range of companies worldwide, whether or not they were related to financial services, declined significantly. Future market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market prices of our ADSs and/or notes. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional ADSs, convertible notes or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders, while the incurrence of debt may impose restrictions on our operations. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If these resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of equity securities would result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could require us to agree to operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. As a foreign private issuer, we are permitted to, and we rely on exemptions from certain corporate governance standards of The New York Stock Exchange applicable to U.S. issuers, including the requirement that a majority of an issuer’s directors consist of independent directors. This may afford less protection to holders of our ordinary shares, ADSs and notes. We are a “foreign private issuer” under the securities laws of the United States and the rules of The New York Stock Exchange. Under the securities laws of the United States, “foreign private issuers” are subject to different disclosure requirements than U.S. domiciled registrants, as well as different financial reporting requirements. Under the rules of The New York Stock Exchange, a “foreign private issuer” is subject to less stringent corporate governance requirements. Subject to certain exceptions, the rules of The New York Stock Exchange permit a “foreign private issuer” to follow its home country practice in lieu of the listing requirements of The New York Stock Exchange. The corporate governance practice in our home country, the Cayman Islands, does not require a majority of our board to consist of independent directors or that we have annual meetings to elect directors. We currently rely on the exemptions provided by The New York Stock Exchange to a foreign private issuer and have a board of directors with a majority of non-independent directors, an audit committee comprised of independent directors, a compensation committee with one non-independent director and a nominating and corporate governance committee with one non-independent director. As a result, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of The New York Stock Exchange. -39- As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from certain disclosure requirements under the Exchange Act, which may afford less protection to our shareholders than they would enjoy if we were a U.S. company. As a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from, among other things, the rules prescribing the furnishing and content of proxy statements under the Exchange Act. In addition, our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit and recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. We are also not required under the Exchange Act to file periodic reports and financial statements with the SEC as frequently or as promptly as U.S. companies whose securities are registered under the Exchange Act. As a result, our shareholders may be afforded less protection than they would under the Exchange Act rules applicable to U.S. companies. Since shareholder rights under Cayman Islands law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have difficulty protecting your shareholder rights. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the Companies Law of the Cayman Islands (the “Cayman Companies Law”) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us and to our shareholders under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they are under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, shareholders of Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result, public shareholders of Cayman Islands companies may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. The voting rights of holders of ADSs are limited by the terms of the deposit agreement. A holder of our ADSs may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Upon receipt of voting instructions of a holder of ADSs in the manner set forth in the deposit agreement and the restricted deposit agreement pursuant to which ADSs are issuable upon conversion of the notes, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Under our amended and restated articles of association and Cayman Islands law, the minimum notice period required for convening a general meeting is 10 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient notice to permit you to withdraw your ordinary shares and allow you to cast your vote as a direct shareholder with respect to any specific matter. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send voting instructions to you or carry out your voting instructions in a timely manner. We will make all reasonable efforts to cause the depositary to extend voting rights to you in a timely manner, but we cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. Furthermore, the depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. As a result, you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and you may lack recourse if the ordinary shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. -40- You may not be able to participate in rights offerings and may experience dilution of your holdings. We may, from time to time, distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire securities. We cannot offer or sell securities in the United States unless we register those securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”) or unless an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary will not distribute rights to holders of ADSs unless the distribution and sale of rights and the securities to which these rights relate are either exempt from registration under the Securities Act with respect to all holders of ADSs, or are registered under the Securities Act. The depositary may, but is not required to, attempt to sell such undistributed rights to third parties in this situation. We can give no assurances that we will be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act, and we are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to these rights or underlying securities or to endeavor to have a registration statement declared effective. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may be unable to participate in any rights offerings and may experience dilution of their holdings as a result. If the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. You may not receive distributions on ordinary shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary for our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or its custodian receives on ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of ordinary shares your ADSs represent. For example, as of the date of this Form 20-F, five ADSs represent one Class A ordinary share. However, the depositary is not required to make such distributions if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any holder of ADSs. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to holders of ADSs if it consisted of securities that required registration under the Securities Act, but were not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. It could also be impracticable to make a distribution if doing so would entail fees and expenses that would exceed the value of the distribution or the distribution consisted of property that could not be transported or transferred. We have not undertaken any obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or other securities that may be distributed to our shareholders. We also have not undertaken any obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive any distribution we make on our ordinary shares or any value for it if it is illegal or impractical for us to make such distribution available to you, such as if an exemption from registration under the U.S. securities laws is not available. These restrictions may decrease the value of your ADSs. We may be required to withhold PRC income tax on any dividend we pay you, and any gain you realize on the transfer of our ordinary shares and/or ADSs may also be subject to PRC withholding tax. Pursuant to the New EIT Law, we and our offshore subsidiaries, such as Bravo Work, China Index Academy and China Home Holdings (HK) Limited, may be treated as a PRC resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes. See “—Risks related to doing business in China—We may be treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes under the New EIT Law and therefore be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income.” If we and our offshore subsidiaries are so treated by the PRC tax authorities, we would be obligated to withhold a 10.0% PRC withholding tax for non-resident enterprises or a 20.0% PRC withholding tax for non-resident individuals, or a withholding tax at a reduced rate as provided under the applicable double tax treaty between China and the governments of other jurisdictions on any dividend we pay to you, subject to completion of the record-filing procedures and approval from the relevant tax authorities, pursuant to a Circular No. 124 issued by SAT in August 2009 (“Circular 124”). -41- In addition, any gain realized by any investors who are non-resident enterprises or non-resident individuals of China from the transfer of our ordinary shares, ADSs and/or notes could be regarded as being derived from sources within China and be subject to a 10.0% or 20.0% PRC withholding tax, respectively. Such PRC withholding tax would reduce your investment return on our ordinary shares, ADSs and/or notes and may also materially and adversely affect the prices of our ADSs and/or notes. Our dual-class ordinary share structure with different voting rights could discourage others from pursuing any change of control transactions that holders of our Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our ordinary shares are divided into Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Holders of Class A ordinary shares are entitled to one vote per share, while holders of Class B ordinary shares are entitled to 10 votes per share. Five ADSs represent one Class A ordinary share and the number of votes to which each ADS would be entitled to is the number of Class A ordinary shares it represents. A number of our shareholders, including primarily Media Partner and Next Decade, whose shares are held in irrevocable discretionary trusts established by Mr. Mo, hold Class B ordinary shares. We intend to maintain the dual-class ordinary share structure. Each Class B ordinary share is convertible into one Class A ordinary share at any time by its holder and Class A ordinary shares are not convertible into Class B ordinary shares under any circumstances. Upon any transfer of Class B ordinary shares by a Class B ordinary shareholder to any person or entity which is not a majority-owned and majority-controlled subsidiary of certain of our shareholders as set forth in our amended and restated articles of association, such Class B ordinary shares will be automatically and immediately converted into the equal number of Class A ordinary shares. Due to the disparate voting powers attached to these classes of shares, our shareholders holding Class B ordinary shares have significant voting power over matters requiring shareholder approval, including election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or sale of our Company or our assets. This concentrated control could discourage others from pursuing any potential merger, takeover or other change-of-control transactions that holders of Class A ordinary shares and ADSs may view as beneficial. Our articles of association contain anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs We have included certain provisions in our current articles of association that would limit the ability of others to acquire control of our Company. These provisions could deprive our shareholders of the opportunity to sell their ordinary shares at a premium over the prevailing market price by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of our Company in a tender offer or similar transactions. These provisions include the following: • A dual-class ordinary share structure; and • Our board of directors, without further action by our shareholders, may issue preferred shares with special voting rights compared to our ordinary shares. -42- Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. We may incur more debt or take other actions which would intensify the risks discussed above. We and our subsidiaries and consolidated controlled entities may incur substantial additional debt in the future, some of which may be secured debt. We will not be restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the indenture governing the notes that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the notes when due. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to repurchase the notes upon a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture for the notes) or on December 15, 2016, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to repurchase the notes. Holders of our outstanding notes will have the right to require us to repurchase their notes on December 15, 2016 and upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture for the notes) at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest under certain circumstances. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of notes surrendered therefor. In addition, our ability to repurchase the notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing any future indebtedness. If the repayment of any future indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the notes. The future sale of substantial amounts of the ADSs and/or convertible notes could lower the market price for the ADSs and/or our outstanding notes, as the case may be. Sales of substantial amounts of the ADSs in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs, could materially impair our ability to raise capital through equity offerings in the future and could adversely impact the trading price of the ADSs and/or the notes. The ADSs outstanding not held by our affiliates are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, and shares held by our affiliates may also be sold in the public market in the future subject to the restrictions in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We may also issue additional options in the future which may be exercised for additional ordinary shares and additional restricted shares and restricted share units. As of December 31, 2013, we had 81,777,545 ordinary shares outstanding, 7,918,231 ordinary shares reserved for issuance under our outstanding share-based awards and 2,579,616 ordinary shares reserved for issuance under our employee benefit plans for future share-based awards. We cannot predict what effect, if any, market sales of securities held by our significant shareholders or any other shareholder or the availability of these securities for future sale will have on the market price of the ADSs or the trading price of the notes. -43- We may become a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. A non-U.S. corporation is deemed a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. We operate an active real estate Internet portal in China. Based on the market price of our ADSs, the value of our assets, and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2013 and we do not believe that we are likely to become one in our current taxable year or any future tax years. The determination of whether a non-U.S. corporation is a PFIC is made on an annual basis after the close of each tax year. There can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year or any future tax year. The most consequential factor affecting the outcome of annual PFIC determination in current and future tax years will be our market capitalization. Because items of working capital are generally treated as passive assets for PFIC purposes, accumulating cash, cash equivalents and other assets that are readily convertible into cash increases the risk that we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A determination that we are a PFIC could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. taxpayer and own our ADSs or ordinary shares, in the form of increased tax liabilities and burdensome reporting requirements. For example, if we were a PFIC, you would generally be taxed at the higher ordinary income rates, rather than the lower capital gain rates, if you dispose of ADSs or ordinary shares at a gain in a later year, even if we are not a PFIC in that year. In addition, a portion of the tax imposed on your gain would be increased by an interest charge. Certain elections may be available to certain of our holders, however, that would mitigate these adverse tax consequences to varying degrees. Also, if we were classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, you would not be able to benefit from any preferential tax rate (if any) with respect to any dividend distribution that you may receive from us in that year or in the following year. Since our business and assets may evolve over time in ways that are different from what we currently anticipate, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year or any future taxable year. For more information on the tax consequences to you if we were treated as a PFIC, see “Item 10.E. Additional Information—Taxation—United States federal income taxation” of this Form 20-F. -44- 