D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Because we face significant competition in all of our businesses, we may lose market share and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition in our online recruitment services and our other human resource related services businesses. Our online recruitment services, conducted through www.51job.com, face intense competition from other dedicated job search websites such as Zhaopin.com, ChinaHR.com and Cjol.com, as well as from local job search websites. In addition, local job fair organizers have developed or acquired online capabilities. Our other human resource related services face significant competition from a variety of Chinese and foreign firms in all of our markets, including certain firms that compete with us in the market for online recruitment. In addition, some of the competitors we encounter in our business process outsourcing business are affiliated with local government agencies and have licenses to provide a wider range of services than we do. The competition in the training services market is currently highly fragmented and primarily made up of small, local training firms, but we could face increased competition should there be a consolidation of these training firms. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have long operating histories, have international strategic partners, have local government sponsorship, may have greater financial, management, technological development, sales, marketing and other resources than we do, and may be able to adopt our business model. As a result of competition, we may experience reduced margins, loss of market share or less use of our services by job seekers and employers. We cannot assure you that existing or future competitors will not develop or offer services and products which provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over our services. If we are unable to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a result of these or other factors, our market share and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 3 Table of Contents New competitors face low entry barriers to our industries, and successful entry by new competitors may cause us to lose market share and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In the future, we may face competition from new entrants in the recruitment advertising industry and other human resource industries in which we operate. We may face greater competition from Internet portals and search engines, dedicated recruitment advertising websites, professional and social networking platforms, online classified websites and other human resource services providers who may enter the market for any or all of our services. For example, LinkedIn, a leading professional network, introduced a Chinese language version of their website in China in February 2014. Our businesses are characterized by relatively low start-up and fixed costs, modest capital requirements, short start-up lead times and an absence of significant proprietary technology that would prevent or significantly inhibit new competitors. As a result, potential market entrants, both in China and from abroad, face relatively low barriers to entry to all of our businesses and in all of our markets. In addition, we believe that our markets are underpenetrated, and that competitors could acquire significant numbers of corporate customers and individual users within a relatively short period of time. Increased competition could result in a loss of market share and revenues, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A slowdown or adverse development in the PRC economy may have a material and adverse impact on our customers, demand for our services and our business. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and a significant majority of our revenues are generated from providing recruitment advertising services for PRC businesses or affiliates of foreign firms operating in China. In an environment of slower economic growth or recession, employers may take actions such as hiring fewer permanent employees, engaging in hiring freezes, reducing the number of employees and curtailing spending on online recruitment services and other human resource related services. If there are slowdowns or other adverse developments in China’s economic growth, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow may be materially and adversely affected. If the use of online advertising to conduct recruitment does not achieve broader acceptance in China, we may be unable to expand our online recruitment business. We generate a majority of our revenues from online recruitment services, which are targeted toward employers and job seekers who use the Internet. We believe that the use of online advertising services by employers for recruitment remains relatively low in China, particularly for small and medium sized enterprises. Other informal recruitment channels, such as job fairs, personal referrals and professional networks, are also commonly utilized by the private sector in China. We face challenges in promoting greater use of online advertising, which involves, among other things, significant changes in the way that employers disseminate information about jobs, the way that prospective employees search and apply for jobs, and the way in which hiring decisions are made. In addition, while China is acknowledged to possess the largest online population in the world, the use of the Internet as a commercial medium has a short history, and China’s Internet penetration rate is low relative to most developed countries. Moreover, telecommunication capacity constraints, unless they are resolved, may impede further development of the Internet to the extent that users experience delays, transmission errors and other difficulties. Any negative perceptions as to the effectiveness of online recruitment services, or online advertising in general, or any significant failure of the Internet to gain acceptance as a medium for recruitment, may adversely affect our online recruitment services business. We cannot assure you that online recruitment advertising will achieve broader acceptance in China. Any significant failure of advertising to gain acceptance among employers and job seekers may adversely affect our ability to expand our online recruitment business. The market for other human resource related services, including business process outsourcing, remains in the early development stage in China, and we may be unable to expand such existing services or successfully develop new services in this area. We believe the market for other human resource related services, including business process outsourcing, is at an early stage of development in China. Many employers are unfamiliar with these services and may not accept the value proposition of these service offerings. Processing, tracking, collecting and remitting funds to the applicable regulatory agencies, employees and other third parties are complex operations, and many employers may not trust us with employee data or to make representations and cash payments on their behalf. As such, companies may not be willing to use our services for significant administrative functions and may instead choose to continue to perform such operations in-house. 4 Table of Contents If we are unable to extend our nationwide capability, effectively monitor ongoing changes in PRC laws and regulations, acquire, develop and use up-to-date business and management technology and software, including advanced computer and technology systems that could require significant capital expenditures, and maintain the integrity and security of our systems and process flow, we may be unable to expand our business process outsourcing operations or gain wider customer acceptance for these services. In addition, we rely on a number of third party service providers, including couriers, agents and banks. Failure by these providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely and accurate manner could result in significant disruptions to our business process outsourcing operations, impact our client relationships, harm our brand and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. In addition, as part of our strategy to be a “one-stop” human resource services provider, we cross-promote our other human resource related services among our online recruitment services customers from time to time. However, we cannot assure you that such cross-promotion strategy will be effective or generate revenues as we expect. Furthermore, we may decide to develop new services in the area of other human resource related services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to deliver new products or services on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. If any of our efforts to cross-promote, develop or operate new human resource related services are unsuccessful, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our business process outsourcing services may be adversely impacted by changes in PRC regulations and policies. In addition, new and future government regulations may significantly increase the number of labor disputes, which may result in higher operating costs. The PRC Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008 and its amendment which became effective on July 1, 2013, establishes restrictions and increases costs for employers, including specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, temporary employment, probation, consultation with the labor union and employee assembly, employment without a contract, dismissal of employees, compensation upon termination and overtime work, and collective bargaining. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for an employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from five to fifteen days, depending on their length of service. On October 28, 2010, the National People’s Congress of China promulgated the PRC Social Insurance Law, which became effective on July 1, 2011. The PRC Social Insurance Law specifies that the PRC establishes a social insurance system including basic pension insurance, basic medical insurance, work-related injury insurance, unemployment insurance and maternity insurance. We provide business process outsourcing services for human resource administrative functions, in particular social insurance and benefits services, for employers. Our business process outsourcing services are designed to assist employers to be compliant with PRC regulations and policies that continually change. Changes in regulations could affect the extent and type of benefits employers are required to provide employees and the procedures, processes and documentation required by local government authorities to administer these benefits. Such changes could reduce or eliminate the need for some of our services. New or additional requirements could also increase our cost to provide our services. For example, effective March 1, 2014, the Interim Provisions on Labor Dispatch, which was promulgated by the PRC Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security, or the MHRSS, clarified the use of the labor dispatch employment model, required revisions to the content in labor dispatch contracts and instituted a 10% maximum limit of labor dispatch employees to total workforce for companies in China. As a result of this new regulation, we undertook adjustments to our business process outsourcing systems, processes and procedures, and the greater staff resources directed to these efforts slowed new customer rollout of our business process outsourcing services in 2014. Any failure by us to be updated and knowledgeable on regulatory changes and to inform, educate and assist our clients regarding new or revised regulations that impact them could materially damage our brand and reputation. In addition, any failure by us to modify our business process outsourcing services in a timely fashion in response to regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, since the PRC Labor Contract Law became effective, we have observed an increase in the number of labor disputes between employers and workers relating to its interpretation and application. The resolution of such labor disputes may require significant costs and resources, including the time our personnel spend dealing with increased human resource administration and legal issues for which we may not be compensated. If we incur higher operating costs for our business process outsourcing business, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may face greater risks of doubtful receivables as our business process outsourcing operations grow. In providing our business process outsourcing services to enterprises, due to the difference in timing between cash receipts and remittances, we may receive from time to time short-term deposits and advances in client funds and/or make short-term prepayments on behalf of our customers to be reimbursed to us. As our business process outsourcing operations have grown, our receivables have increased. We cannot assure you that we will be able to collect payment or reimbursement fully, or in a timely manner, on receivables from our business processing outsourcing services customers. As a result, we may face a greater risk of non-payment of these receivables, and as our business process outsourcing operations increase in scale, we may need to make increased provisions for doubtful accounts. If we are unable to successfully manage our receivables, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents We are subject to potential legal liability from both employers and job seekers with respect to our other human resource related services, in particular our executive search and business process outsourcing businesses. We are exposed to potential claims associated with the recruitment process, including claims by clients seeking to hold us liable for recommending a candidate who subsequently proves to be unsuitable for the position filled, claims by current or previous employers of our candidates alleging interference with employment contracts, claims by candidates against us alleging our failure to maintain the confidentiality of their employment search or alleging discrimination or other violations of employment law or other laws or regulations by our clients, and claims by either employers or their workers alleging the failure of our business process outsourcing services to comply with laws or regulations relating to employment, employee’s insurance or benefits, individual income taxes or other matters. Any such claims, regardless of merit, may force us to participate in time-consuming, costly litigation or investigation, divert significant management and staff attention, and damage our reputation and brand names. We do not maintain insurance coverage for liabilities arising from claims by employers, employees, candidates or third parties. If we are not able to respond successfully to technological or industry developments, our business may be materially and adversely affected. The market for online products and services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent launches of new products and services, introductions of new business models, changes in customer needs and behavior, and evolving industry standards. If we fail to adapt our products to these developments, our existing online recruitment services may become less competitive or obsolete. For example, the number of people accessing the Internet through mobile devices, including smartphones, tablets and other hand-held devices, has increased in recent years, and we expect this trend to continue as more advanced mobile communications technologies are broadly implemented. In order to respond to new developments, we may be required to undertake substantial efforts and incur significant costs. In the event that we do not successfully respond to such developments in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Due to seasonal variations in demand for human resource services, we experience material fluctuations in our revenue streams which affect our ability to predict our quarterly results and which may also cause quarterly results to vary from period to period. We experience material fluctuations in our revenue streams which affect our ability to predict quarterly results. For example, in the periods following the Chinese New Year holiday in the first quarter and the National Day holiday in October, we historically experience an increase in recruitment activity. During these peak periods, demand for recruitment advertising and other human resource related services may or may not rise significantly depending on the needs of employers as well as their perceptions of the job market. In addition, the Chinese New Year holiday is based on the lunar calendar, which varies from year to year and affects our first quarter results and their comparability to financial results of the same quarter in prior years. We have usually observed seasonal campus recruitment activity by employers in the fourth quarter of each year but also a general slowdown in overall recruitment activity at calendar year end. Due to these factors, our revenues may vary materially from quarter to quarter and quarterly results may not be comparable to the corresponding periods of prior years. Such uncertainty makes it difficult for us to predict revenues for a particular quarter. Therefore, actual results may differ significantly from our targets or estimated quarterly results, which could cause the price of our ADSs to fall. We are dependent on our Internet service providers, and we are vulnerable to failures of the Internet, fixed line telecommunications networks in China and our technology platform. Our online businesses are heavily dependent on the performance and reliability of China’s Internet infrastructure, the continual accessibility of bandwidth and servers to our service providers’ networks, and the continuing performance, reliability and availability of our technology platform. We rely on China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom, and China United Network Communications Group Company Limited, or China Unicom, to provide us with bandwidth and server custody service for our services. We are unlikely to have any access to alternative networks or services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure or the fixed telecommunications networks of China Telecom or China Unicom, or if China Telecom or China Unicom otherwise fail to provide such services. In addition, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by China Telecom or China Unicom. If China Telecom or China Unicom fails to provide these services, we would be required to seek other providers, and there is no assurance that we will be able to find alternative providers willing or able to provide high quality services and there is no assurance that such providers will not charge us higher prices for their services. If the prices that we are required to pay for Internet services rise significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 6 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect or promote our brand names and reputation, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to generate a high volume of recruitment advertisements, successfully promote and develop the perception of www.51job.com as a “destination site,” undertake effective marketing and promotional activities, and generally provide high quality services, we may not be successful in protecting or promoting our brand names and reputation in a cost-effective manner or at all. In addition, if job seeker profiles or recruitment advertisements on www.51job.com are found to contain inaccurate or false information, the value proposition of www.51job.com as a leading online recruitment platform may be weakened. Furthermore, we may be subject to claims by individuals and customers seeking to hold us liable for such inaccurate or false information. Any claims, regardless of merit, may force us to participate in time-consuming, costly litigation or investigation, divert significant management and staff attention, and damage our reputation and brand names. We may dedicate significantly greater resources in the future to advertising, marketing and other promotional efforts aimed at building awareness of our brands. Any significant damage to our reputation, the perceived quality or awareness of our brand names or services, or any significant failure on our part to promote and protect our brand names and reputation could make it more difficult for us to successfully attract job seekers, compete for customers or retain qualified personnel, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to prevent others from using our intellectual property, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our intellectual property has been, and will continue to be, subject to various forms of theft and misappropriation. Competitors copy and distribute content from our www.51job.com website and from the training materials that we use, and utilize misleadingly similar Internet domain names and URLs in an effort to divert Internet traffic away from our website. We are also susceptible to others copying our business model and methods. The legal protection of trademarks, trade names, copyrighted material, domain names, trade secrets, know-how and other forms of intellectual property in the PRC is significantly more limited than in the United States and many other countries and may afford us little or no effective protection. Preventing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, time consuming and expensive. Misappropriation of our content, trademarks and other intellectual property could divert significant business to our competitors, damage our brand name and reputation, and require us to initiate litigation that could be expensive and divert management resources from the operation of our businesses. We rely heavily on our senior management team and key personnel, and the loss of any of their services could severely disrupt our business. Our future success is highly dependent on the ongoing efforts of the members of our senior management and key personnel, in particular on Rick Yan, our chief executive officer. We rely heavily on his management skills and his expertise in consumer products, marketing and technology. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior management or key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key personnel, Mr. Yan in particular, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for senior management and key personnel is intense, and the pool of suitable candidates is very limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or key personnel, or attract and retain senior executives or key personnel in the future. In addition, if Mr. Yan, any other members of our senior management or any of our other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may not be able to replace them easily and we may lose customers, business partners, key professionals and staff members. Each of our senior executives has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. In the event of a dispute between any of our senior executives and us, we cannot assure you as to the extent, if any, that these provisions may be enforceable in the PRC due to uncertainties involving the PRC legal system. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business process outsourcing, training and executive search businesses may be materially and adversely affected. The success of our business process outsourcing, training and executive search services depends heavily on our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. Our business of performing traditional human resource department functions such as payroll, benefits and compliance management and related services for customers on an outsourced basis depends on having personnel with expertise in local and national PRC government employment regulations, payroll management and other human resource department functions. The success of our training business depends on personnel with the necessary skills to conduct and support our training seminars and other activities and services in this business. Similarly, our ability to provide high quality executive search services depends on a dedicated team of consultants with expertise and relationships in the geographic markets and industries in which our clients seek candidates. If we are unable to attract and retain critical skilled personnel, our business process outsourcing, training and executive search businesses may be materially and adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully detect and prevent criminal actions or fraud perpetrated on us, we may be subject to liability and financial loss. The management of our business process outsourcing services involves the collection of payments from our customers and the disbursement of funds on their behalf by our employees and agents. As a result, we are exposed to theft, embezzlement and other criminal and fraudulent activity by our employees, our agents and third parties. If we are unable to successfully detect and prevent criminal or fraudulent activity, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our business may suffer if we do not successfully manage our current and potential future growth. We have grown significantly since we commenced operations in 1998, and we intend to continue to expand in size and increase the number of services we provide. Our anticipated future growth will place demands on our management and operations. Our success in managing this growth will depend to a significant degree on the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to operate effectively both independently and as a group, and on our ability to improve and develop our financial and management information systems, controls and procedures. In addition, we will have to successfully adapt our existing systems and introduce new systems, expand, train and manage our workforce, and improve and expand our sales and marketing capabilities. If we are unable to properly manage our operations or our services in existing markets, or the quality of our services deteriorates due to mismanagement, we could significantly damage our brand name and reputation, which would adversely affect our ability to expand our customer base. Because we operate in a new and evolving market, our operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. As we operate in a new and rapidly evolving market, we cannot assure you that we will maintain our profitability or that we will not incur net losses in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase as we expand in size and increase the scope of services we provide. Any significant delay or failure to realize anticipated revenue growth could result in significant operating losses. We may encounter risks and difficulties including our potential failure to: · implement our business model and strategy and adapt and modify them as needed; · increase awareness of our brands, protect our reputation and develop customer loyalty; · anticipate with any degree of certainty the behavioral and operational changes of our customers that have a significant impact on our business from time to time as they respond to evolving social, economic, regulatory and political and regulatory changes in China; · manage our expanding operations and service offerings, including the integration of any future acquisitions; · maintain adequate control of our expenses; · adequately and efficiently operate, maintain, upgrade and develop our website and the other systems and equipment we utilize in providing our services; · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; and · anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the human resource, online and other markets in which we operate as well as the impact of any changes in government regulation, mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, technological developments and other significant competitive and market dynamics. If we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully execute future acquisitions or efficiently manage any acquired business. As part of our business expansion strategy, we may pursue acquisitions or investments in certain complementary or new businesses. The success of any material acquisition will depend upon several factors, including: · our ability to identify and acquire businesses on a cost-effective basis; · our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively; and · our ability to retain and motivate key personnel and to retain the clients of acquired firms. Any such acquisition may require a significant commitment of management time, capital investment and other resources. If we are unable to effectively integrate an acquired business or are required to incur restructuring and other charges to complete an acquisition, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we use our equity securities as consideration for acquisitions, we may dilute the value of your ADSs. If we choose to develop or introduce new products and services outside of the human resource services industry in China, these efforts may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. To leverage our large sales force and corporate customer base, we may expand the scope of services we provide and develop or introduce new products outside of the human resource services industry to increase our revenues. For example, in 2007, we entered into an agreement with our shareholder, Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd., or Recruit, a leading human resource and information services company in Japan listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, to form and invest in a new company to provide coupon advertising services in China. However, in 2011, due to changing market conditions and operational developments, we recognized a loss from impairment of RMB15.1 million, the total amount of our investment, and the coupon advertising company was sold in 2012. In the future, if we again choose to pursue products and services outside of the human resource services industry in China, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. Any of our efforts to begin or operate a business outside of the human resource services industry that are not successful may materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to liability for placing advertisements with content that is deemed inappropriate. PRC laws and regulations prohibit advertising companies from producing, distributing or publishing any advertisement that contains any content that violates laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of the PRC, involves designs of the national flag, national emblem or national anthem or the music of the national anthem of the PRC, is reactionary, obscene, superstitious or absurd, is fraudulent, or disparages similar products. If we are deemed to be in violation of such regulations, we may be subject to penalties including confiscation of the illegal revenues, levying of fines and suspension or revocation of our business license or advertising license, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if successful, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Third parties may bring claims against us alleging patent, trademark or copyright infringement, or misappropriation of their creative ideas or formats, or other infringement of their proprietary intellectual property rights. Any such claims, regardless of merit, may involve us in time-consuming, costly litigation or investigation, divert significant management and staff attention, require us to enter into expensive royalty or licensing arrangements, prevent us from using important technologies, business methods, content or other intellectual property, result in monetary liability, or otherwise disrupt our operations. We rely heavily on our information systems, and if our access to technology supporting our information systems is impaired or interrupted, or if we fail to further develop our technology, our operations may be seriously disrupted. Our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information, including our client and candidate databases, is an important part of our operations and a critical component of our success. Our online systems, including the www.51job.com website, and our other applications, products and systems may, from time to time, contain undetected errors or “bugs” that could adversely affect their performance. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must further develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development, either internally or through independent consultants, of new proprietary software. Our inability to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively, or any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities, for any reason, could materially disrupt our operations. 9 Table of Contents Hacking and computer viruses may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce use of our services and damage our reputation and brand names. Hacking and computer viruses may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. Hacking involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions, loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Hacking and computer viruses could result in significant damage to our hardware and software systems and databases, disruptions to our business activities, including to our e-mail and other communications systems, breaches of security and the inadvertent disclosure of confidential or sensitive information, interruptions in access to our website through the use of “denial of service” or similar attacks, and other material adverse effects on our operations. Although to date we have not been subject to significant targeted disruptions or hacking, and our website has not gone off-line or been shut down for any significant period of time, we may incur significant costs to continue to protect our systems and equipment against the threat of, and to repair any damage caused by, hacking and computer viruses. Moreover, if hacking or a computer virus affects our systems and is highly publicized, our reputation and brand names could be materially damaged and use of our services may decrease. There are significant uncertainties under the tax law in China and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to maintain certain tax statuses. In addition, dividends we receive from our subsidiaries located in the PRC are subject to PRC withholding tax. The Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC, or the EIT Law, which became effective January 1, 2008, applies a uniform 25% enterprise income tax, or EIT, rate to both foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises. In December 2009, our subsidiary, Tech JV, was designated by relevant local authorities in Shanghai as a “High and New Technology Enterprise” under the EIT Law and became subject to a preferential tax rate of 15%. In 2012, its preferential tax status was renewed by local tax authorities through 2014. Tech JV is entitled to this preferential 15% tax rate as long as it maintains the required qualifications, which is subject to review every three years. We cannot assure you that Tech JV will continue to qualify as a “High and New Technology Enterprise” when it is subject to reevaluation in 2015 or any time in the future. In addition, there are uncertainties on how the EIT Law and its implementation rules will be enforced, and whether its future implementation may be consistent with its current interpretation. If the EIT rates of some of our PRC subsidiaries increase, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Under the EIT Law and related regulations, dividends, interests, rent or royalties payable by a foreign-invested enterprise, such as our PRC subsidiaries, to any of its foreign non-resident enterprise investors shall be subject to a 10% withholding tax, and proceeds from the disposition of assets (after deducting the net value of such assets as determined under PRC tax laws) by such foreign enterprise investor shall be subject to a 10% tax, unless such foreign enterprise investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of tax. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands which does not have such a tax treaty with China. Undistributed profits earned by foreign-invested enterprises prior to January 1, 2008 are exempted from any withholding tax. In addition, pursuant to the PRC Provisional Regulations on Business Tax, taxpayers providing taxable services falling under the category of service industry in China were required to pay a business tax at a normal tax rate of 5% of their revenues. In 2012, China implemented a pilot program replacing business tax with value-added tax, or VAT, in Shanghai. Effective January 1, 2012, companies providing services in the transportation industry or in modern services selected for the pilot program in Shanghai are subject to and pay VAT rather than business tax. As a result, some of our subsidiaries became subject to VAT at a rate of 6% while being permitted to offset input VAT supported by valid VAT invoices received from vendors against our VAT liability. The pilot program has been implemented nationwide since August 1, 2013. Moreover, the scope of services subject to the VAT pilot program has been expanding. Pursuant to Circular Cai Shui [2013] No. 106 jointly issued by the PRC Ministry of Finance, or the MOF, and the PRC State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, on December 12, 2013, as from January 1, 2014, the VAT pilot program is applicable to transportation service, postal service and certain modern services including research, development and technical service, IT service, cultural and creational service, logistics and ancillary service, leasing of tangible assets, authentication and consultancy service, broadcasting, movie and TV service. Pursuant to Circular Cai Shui [2014] No. 43 jointly issued by the MOF and the SAT on April 29, 2014, as from June 1, 2014, telecommunication service is covered by the VAT pilot program. Provision of certain services under the VAT pilot program is subject to zero VAT or VAT exemption. Revenues in most of our PRC subsidiaries were subject to VAT as of December 31, 2014, and the payment of additional taxes by us under the VAT regime than under the business tax regime has reduced the amount of revenues in our results of operations. If further changes to PRC tax laws and regulations result in increased taxation, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. 10 Table of Contents We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law, which could subject us to PRC taxation on our global income and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the EIT Law and its implementation rules, enterprises incorporated under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China may be considered PRC resident enterprises and therefore subject to an EIT rate of 25% on their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations issued by the PRC State Council, or the State Council, relating to the EIT Law, “de facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have material and overall management control over the production and business operations, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. The Circular on Identification of China-Controlled Overseas-Registered Enterprises as Resident Enterprises on the Basis of Actual Management Organization, or Circular 82, further provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a PRC-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise is located in the PRC. For more details about these criteria, please refer to “Item 10. — Additional Information — Taxation — People’s Republic of China Taxation.” Although the Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by enterprises or an enterprise group located within the PRC, the determining criteria set forth in the Circular 82 may reflect the tax authorities’ general position on how the “de facto management body” test may be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our operational management is based in China. As the tax resident status of an enterprise is subject to the determination by the PRC tax authorities and uncertainties remain with respect to the interpretation of the term “de facto management body” as applicable to our offshore entities, we cannot assure you that we will not be considered as a PRC tax resident enterprise. If we are considered to be an enterprise established outside China with “de facto management bodies” located in China and thus a resident enterprise, we may be subject to the uniform 25% EIT rate as to our global income, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face uncertainty from the PRC’s Circular on Strengthening the Management of Enterprise Income Tax Collection of Income Derived by Non-Resident Enterprises from Equity Transfers. The SAT issued the Circular on Strengthening the Management of Enterprise Income Tax Collection of Income Derived by Non-Resident Enterprises from Equity Transfers, or Circular 698, on December 10, 2009, that addresses the transfer of equity by non-PRC tax resident enterprises. Under Circular 698, the overseas controlling party that effectively controls a PRC resident enterprise through an overseas intermediate holding company, and “indirectly transfers” the equity interests in such PRC resident enterprise by selling all shares of the intermediate holding company, is required to report such transfer to the PRC tax authority if the intermediate holding company is located in a foreign jurisdiction that has an effective tax rate of less than 12.5% or does not levy tax on such foreign-sourced capital gains of its residents. If the intermediate holding company mainly serves as tax avoidance vehicle and does not have any reasonable business purpose, the PRC in-charge tax authority may, upon verification of the SAT, disregard the intermediate holding company and re-characterize the equity transfer by referring to its economic essence, and as a result, the overseas controlling party may be subject to a 10% PRC tax for the capital gains realized from the equity transfer. 11 Table of Contents On February 3, 2015, the SAT issued the Bulletin on Several Issues of Enterprise Income Tax on Income Arising from Indirect Transfers of Property by Non-Resident Enterprises (SAT Bulletin [2015] No. 7), or Bulletin 7, which took effect on the date of issuance and is retroactively applicable to indirect transfers that occurred before the date of issuance and have not been subject to tax treatment. Bulletin 7 provides detailed rules and guidance on the tax treatment of non-resident enterprises’ indirect transfer of: (i) the property of an establishment or place situated in China; (ii) real property situated in China; and (iii) equity interest in PRC resident enterprises, collectively, China Taxable Property. Bulletin 7 repealed the relevant provisions of Circular 698 regarding indirect transfers. Pursuant to Bulletin 7, an indirect transfer of China Taxable Property shall be re-characterized as direct transfer of China Taxable Property and subject to Chinese EIT if a non-resident enterprise transfers, through an arrangement that does not have a reasonable commercial purpose, equity interest or other similar interests in an intermediate offshore holding company that directly or indirectly holds China Taxable Property, and the result of such indirect transfer is in substance the same or similar to the direct transfer of China Taxable Property, thereby avoiding payment of EIT. Bulletin 7 specifies a list of factors to determine whether the indirect transfer has a reasonable commercial purpose, such as whether all or most of the value of the offshore holding company’s equity is directly or indirectly derived from China Taxable Property, whether all or most of the properties of the offshore holding company comprise of direct or indirect equity investments in China, whether all or most of the revenue of the offshore holding company is sourced from Chinese companies, the functions performed and risks assumed by the offshore holding company, and the substitutability of indirect transfer and direct transfer. Indirect transfers shall be deemed to lack a reasonable commercial purpose if all of the following conditions are met: (i) 75% or more of the value of the offshore companies’ equity is derived from China Taxable Property; (ii) 90% or more of the total assets (excluding cash) of the offshore holding company are direct or indirect investments located in China, or 90% or more of the revenue of the offshore holding company is sourced from China in the year prior to the indirect transfer; (iii) the offshore holding companies perform limited functions and assume limited risks that are insufficient to prove their economic substance; and (iv) the foreign income tax payable on the indirect transfer is lower than the possible China tax payable on the direct transfer. Under Bulletin 7, if an indirect transfer is re-characterized as direct transfer of China Taxable Property, the overseas seller will be subject to (i) 25% EIT on the gains derived from the indirect transfer of the property of an establishment or place situated in China, or (ii) 10% EIT on the gains derived from the indirect transfer of real property situated in China or equity interests in Chinese resident enterprises, unless the applicable tax treaty provides otherwise. Moreover, Bulletin 7 provides safe harbor to exempt a qualified intra-group reorganization as defined under Bulletin 7 from EIT, and clarifies that Bulletin 7 is not applicable to an indirect transfer if (i) the income from the indirect transfer would have been exempt from EIT in China in accordance with applicable tax treaties if the indirect transfer had been conducted as a direct transfer, or (ii) the non-resident enterprise buys and then sells, in the public securities market, the equity interests in the same overseas listed company. Pursuant to Bulletin 7, the parties to the indirect transfer and the PRC resident enterprise whose equity interest is transferred may report the indirect transfer to the PRC tax authorities on a voluntary basis, different from the reporting obligation imposed on the overseas seller under Circular 698. Bulletin 7 also provides clarification on other issues relating to indirect transfers of China Taxable Property, such as the withholding obligation of the buyer in the indirect transfer of real property situated in China or equity interest in PRC resident enterprises, the documentation requirements for voluntary reporting to the tax authorities, additional documents that the tax authorities are empowered to request, timeframe of making tax payments under Bulletin 7 and the legal consequence for failure to pay or withhold EIT in respect of the indirect transfers. We do not believe that the transfer of our common shares or ADSs by our non-PRC shareholders would be treated as an indirect transfer of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries subject to Circular 698 or Bulletin 7, as the share transfer is not carried out for the main purposes of avoiding PRC taxes. However, there is uncertainty as to the interpretation and application of Circular 698 and Bulletin 7 by the PRC tax authorities in practice. If you are required to pay PRC tax on the transfer of our common shares or ADSs, your investment in us may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we cannot predict how Circular 698 or Bulletin 7 will affect our financial condition or results of operations. For example, we may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or Bulletin 7, or to establish that we should not be taxed under Circular 698 or Bulletin 7, any of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we do not appropriately maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our business, results of operations and the market price of our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2014. See “Item 15. — Controls and Procedures.” However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements going forward. 12 Table of Contents If the chops of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities are not kept safely, are stolen, or are misused or misappropriated by unauthorized persons, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected. In the PRC, a company chop or seal serves as the legal representation of the company to third parties even when unaccompanied by a signature. Each legally registered company in the PRC is required to have a company chop, which must be registered with the local public security bureau and the local administration for industry and commerce. In addition to this mandatory chop, companies may have several other chops which can be used for specific purposes. The chops of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated entities are held securely by personnel designated or approved by us in accordance with our internal control procedures. To the extent these chops are not kept safely, are stolen, or are misused or misappropriated by unauthorized persons, the corporate governance of these entities could be severely and adversely compromised. As a result, these corporate entities may be bound to abide by the terms of any documents so chopped, even if they were chopped by an individual who lacked the requisite power and authority to do so, which may require us to take legal action, divert resources and management attention, and could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. We have no business insurance coverage. Other than insurance for some of our properties, we do not maintain any insurance. We do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We face risks related to health epidemics and other natural disasters. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, H1N1 flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic or outbreak. Health or other government regulations adopted in response to an epidemic or other outbreaks may require temporary closure of our offices or institute restrictions on travel which could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our customers throughout China. In addition, our results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent that an epidemic or outbreak harms the Chinese economy in general. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future epidemic. We are also vulnerable to natural disasters and other calamities. Our servers are hosted in Shanghai and Tianjin. We have backup systems, but we cannot assure you that such backup systems will be adequate if there are problems, or that they will adequately protect us from the effects of fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, war, riots, terrorist acts or similar events. Any of the foregoing events may give rise to server interruptions, breakdowns, system failures, technology platform failures and Internet failures, which could cause the loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware as well as adversely affect our ability to provide our services to users. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure We are controlled by a small number of our existing shareholders, whose interests may differ from those of other shareholders, and our board of directors has the power to discourage a change of control. As of February 28, 2015, the following shareholders beneficially owned 36.3 million common shares: · Recruit, which beneficially owned 23.4 million common shares, or approximately 39.6% of our outstanding common shares, and which is affiliated with Kazumasa Watanabe, one of our directors; and · Rick Yan, our chief executive officer and a director, who beneficially owned 12.9 million common shares, or approximately 21.8% of our outstanding common shares. These shareholders, together with our other executive officers and directors, beneficially owned approximately 38.8 million common shares. Accordingly, Recruit or Mr. Yan individually could have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. In cases where their interests are aligned and they vote together, these shareholders will also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. Without the consent of some or all of these shareholders, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. In addition, these parties could violate their director or employment agreements with us or otherwise violate their fiduciary duties by diverting business opportunities from us to themselves or others. The interests of our largest shareholders may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. 13 Table of Contents If the PRC authorities determine that our past ownership structure was inconsistent with the requirements for operating certain of our businesses, we could be subject to sanctions. The PRC government has regulated foreign ownership in entities providing advertising and human resource related services. Prior to March 2004, PRC laws and regulations prohibited foreign persons from owning a controlling interest in advertising entities. This foreign ownership restriction was subsequently relaxed and foreign persons are now permitted to wholly own advertising entities in China. Foreign ownership in entities providing human resource related services was limited to 49% beginning in November 2003 and this ownership limitation has been increased to 70% since August 2006. Prior to our restructuring in May 2004, 51net.com Inc., or 51net, our British Virgin Islands subsidiary and a foreign entity, owned 99% of Tech JV, which in turn owned, and continues to own, 80% of Shanghai Qianjin Advertising Co., Ltd., or AdCo. AdCo owned 90% of its principal subsidiaries. In May 2004, we restructured our operations to comply with then existing PRC laws and regulations governing foreign ownership in entities conducting advertising and human resource related services. We have not received any waiver from the PRC government with respect to this past non-compliance. In addition, it is uncertain whether special governmental approval, which we did not obtain, was necessary for the establishment by AdCo of its subsidiaries. The PRC government may determine that our ownership structure is or was inconsistent with or insufficient for the proper operation of our businesses, or that our business licenses or other approvals are or were not properly issued or not sufficient. For a discussion of the limitations on foreign ownership governing our businesses, see “Item 4. — Information on the Company — Business Overview — Regulation — Limitations on Foreign Ownership of Our Businesses.” If we or any of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities were found to be or to have been in violation of PRC laws or regulations governing foreign ownership of advertising or human resource services businesses, the relevant regulatory authorities would likely have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including but not limited to: · levying fines; · revoking business licenses; · restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from any capital raisings to finance our business and operations in China; · requiring us to restructure the ownership structure or operations of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities; and/or · requiring us to discontinue all or a portion of our business. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on agreements with Qian Cheng, Run An and their respective shareholders to receive all of the beneficial interest of these entities. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership. PRC laws and regulations currently limit foreign investment in entities providing human resource related services and in entities operating as Internet content providers. Tech JV and its subsidiaries recognize substantially all of our revenues. 50% of our equity interest in Tech JV is held by Beijing Qian Cheng Si Jin Advertising Co., Ltd., or Qian Cheng, which is wholly owned by Beijing Run An Information Consultancy Co., Ltd., or Run An. Run An is jointly owned by David Weimin Jin and Tao Wang, two executive officers of our company. Through agreements with Qian Cheng, Run An and their respective shareholders, we have the substantial ability to control, bear all the economic risks of, and receive all the economic rewards from, Qian Cheng and Run An. As a result, we consolidate all of these interests for U.S. GAAP reporting purposes. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7. — Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions — Contractual Arrangements Among Our Group Entities.” Although we have been advised by our PRC legal counsel, Jun He Law Offices, that the contractual arrangements as described in this annual report are valid, binding and enforceable under current PRC laws, these arrangements may not be as effective as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, Qian Cheng, Run An and their respective shareholders could violate their contractual arrangements with us by refusing to make payments or otherwise refusing to perform their obligations necessary for us to realize the economic rewards from Qian Cheng and Run An. In any such event, we will have to rely on the PRC legal system to enforce our rights, which could have uncertain results. Any legal proceeding may disrupt our business, damage our reputation, divert our resources and incur substantial costs. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect us.” 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to enforce our rights, or if we suffer any significant delays or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, we may be unable to receive all of the economic rewards from Qian Cheng and Run An. If we are unable to consolidate Qian Cheng and Run An, and their equity interest in Tech JV, our results of operations would be materially reduced. In addition, a significant disruption in these contractual relationships as a result of governmental sanction or otherwise could result in our being required to restructure our operations which could require a significant expenditure of resources. The shareholders of our affiliated Chinese entities may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. The principal shareholders of our affiliated entity, Run An, are David Weimin Jin and Tao Wang, both of whom are long-time executive officers of our company, and our other affiliated entity, Qian Cheng, is wholly owned by Run An. Although Messrs. Jin and Wang are contractually obligated, or obligated as a result of their fiduciary duty to our company, to act in good faith and in our best interest, potential conflicts of interest between their duties to our company and our affiliated Chinese entities may arise. When conflicts of interest arise, Messrs. Jin and Wang may not act entirely in our interests and any such conflicts of interest may not be resolved in our favor. If we cannot resolve any conflict of interest or dispute between us and the shareholders of our affiliated entities, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could disrupt our business, incur significant costs, distract management and subject us to substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. See “— Risks Related to Doing Business in China — The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect us.” The PRC laws and regulations governing our business operations and contractual arrangements are uncertain, and if we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and our subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws, and, as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations, including those governing foreign ownership in the human resource services and Internet content industries. These laws and regulations may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. In addition, the PRC authorities retain broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses, permits and beneficial treatments issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time under contrary findings of higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. We may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations. As a result of these substantial uncertainties, we cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations. According to PRC laws, trademark license agreements are required to be filed with the Trademark Office of the PRC State Administration for Industry and Commerce, or the SAIC, for the record. Under a trademark license agreement dated as of August 15, 2000, and supplemented and amended as of August 15, 2005 and August 15, 2010, WFOE has granted to Tech JV the right to use certain trademarks in the PRC. The trademark license agreement has not been filed with the Trademark Office of the SAIC, and as such it may not be enforceable against bona fide third parties until completion of such registration. In or around September 2011, various media sources reported that the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, had prepared a report proposing regulating the use of variable interest entity, or VIE, structures or contractual arrangements, such as ours, in industry sectors subject to foreign investment restrictions in China and overseas listings by China-based companies. However, it is unclear whether the CSRC officially issued or submitted such a report to a higher level government authority or what any such report provides, or whether any new PRC laws or regulations relating to variable interest entity structures will be adopted or if adopted, what they would provide. 15 Table of Contents On January 19, 2015, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or the MOFCOM, published the draft Foreign Investment Law, or the Draft FIL, on its official website. Upon its enactment, it is intended to replace the trio of existing laws regulating foreign investment in China, namely, the Sino-Foreign Equity Joint Venture Enterprise Law, the Sino-Foreign Cooperative Joint Venture Enterprise Law and the Wholly Foreign Owned Enterprise Law, together with their implementation rules and ancillary regulations. The MOFCOM has solicited comments from the public on the Draft FIL and substantial uncertainties exist with respect to its enactment timetable, interpretation and implementation. The Draft FIL, if enacted as proposed, may materially impact the viability of our current corporate structure, corporate governance and business operations in many aspects. Among other things, the Draft FIL expands the definition of foreign investment and introduces the principle of “actual control” in determining whether an investment is considered a foreign investment or domestic investment. The Draft FIL specifically provides that an entity established in China but “controlled” by foreign investors will be treated as a foreign investor, whereas an entity set up in a foreign jurisdiction but “controlled” by PRC entities and/or citizens would nonetheless be treated as a PRC domestic investor, provided that the entity should obtain such determination upon market entry clearance by the competent foreign investment authority. If a foreign investment is made in an industry within the catalogue of special management measures, or the negative list, to be issued by the State Council, it would be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth therein and call for market entry clearance by the competent foreign investment authority. In addition to control through direct or indirect ownership or equity, the Draft FIL includes control through contractual arrangements within the definition of “actual control.” The VIE structure has been adopted by many PRC-based companies, including us, to obtain necessary licenses and permits in the industries that are currently subject to foreign investment restrictions in China. If the Draft FIL is promulgated and goes into effect in its current form, these provisions regarding control through contractual arrangements could be construed to reach our VIE arrangements with Qian Cheng and Run An, and as a result, our VIEs and subsidiaries in which these VIEs have direct or indirect equity ownership could be subject to the current restrictions on foreign investment where engaged in an industry on the negative list. The Draft FIL has not taken a position on what actions will be taken with respect to the existing companies with a VIE structure, whether or not these companies are controlled by PRC entities/citizens. Moreover, it is uncertain whether the online recruitment services or human resources industries in which our affiliated entities operate will be subject to the foreign investment restrictions or prohibitions set forth in the negative list to be issued. If the enacted version of the Foreign Investment Law and the final negative list mandate further actions, such as MOFCOM market entry clearance or certain restructuring of our corporate structure and operations, to be completed by companies with existing VIE structure like us, we will face substantial uncertainties as to whether these actions can be timely completed, or at all. As a result, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The Draft FIL, if enacted as proposed, may also materially impact our corporate governance practice and increase our compliance costs. For instance, the Draft FIL imposes stringent ad hoc and periodic information reporting requirements on foreign investors and the applicable foreign-invested enterprises. Reports are required whenever we make a new investment and modify or change our investment. Annual reports are mandatory, and large foreign investors meeting certain criteria are required to make reports quarterly. Any company found to be non-compliant with these information reporting obligations may be subject to fines and/or administrative or criminal liability, and the persons directly responsible may be subject to criminal liability. If we or any of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities or any of our contractual arrangements are found to be or to have been in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would likely have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including but not limited to: · levying fines; · revoking business licenses; · restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from any capital raisings to finance our business and operations in China; · requiring us to restructure the ownership structure or operations of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities; and/or · requiring us to discontinue all or a portion our business. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to quantify the likelihood that any sanctions would be imposed or the magnitude of the effect of any such sanctions on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries face limitations on paying dividends or making other distributions to us. We are a holding company and rely substantially on dividends, royalty payments and license fees paid under trademark license agreements and certain other contractual arrangements paid to us by our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in the PRC to finance our operations and to pay dividends to our shareholders. These royalty payments and license fees paid under trademark license agreements and certain other contractual arrangements do not require governmental or other third party approval. However, the payment of dividends in China is subject to certain restrictions and taxes. PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in the PRC are also required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds that are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, the PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We may also experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. See “Item 4. — Information on the Company — Business Overview — Regulation — Regulations Relating to Foreign Currency Exchange” and “— Regulations Relating to Dividend Distribution.” If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to effectively finance our operations or pay dividends on our common shares. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Our business could be affected by changes in China’s economic, political or social conditions or government policies. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth over the past decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. For example, to restrain inflation and prevent the economy from overheating, the PRC government has instituted from time to time a number of tightening macroeconomic measures and monetary policies, including increasing interest rates, raising statutory reserve rates for banks and controlling bank lending to certain industries. We cannot assure you that the various macroeconomic measures and monetary policies adopted by the PRC government to guide economic growth and the allocation of resources will be effective in sustaining the fast growth rate of the Chinese economy. In addition, even if these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, they may impact the hiring behavior of employers and reduce the level of expenditures on human resource services, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The PRC government could determine to develop and support government owned or controlled human resource enterprises in direct competition with us. The PRC government could also determine to more closely regulate the telecommunications, Internet or human resource industries, which could impose additional regulatory costs and burdens on us. PRC laws and regulations governing operators of Internet websites are unclear and the regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries may become more burdensome, and if we are found to be in violation of PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to sanctions. The interpretation and application of existing and future PRC laws and regulations and the stated positions of the main governing authority, the PRC Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or the MIIT, have created significant uncertainty regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, companies with Internet operations, including those of our company. In particular, the MIIT has stated that the activities of Internet content providers are subject to regulation by various PRC government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. In addition, PRC government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries is burdensome and may become even more so. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. Our failure to comply with applicable PRC Internet regulations could subject us to severe sanctions. 17 Table of Contents In July 2006, the MIIT issued the Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in the Operation of Value-Added Telecommunications Business, or the MIIT Notice. According to the MIIT Notice, foreign investors can only operate a telecommunications business in China by establishing a telecommunications enterprise with a valid telecommunications business operation license. Domestic value-added telecommunications services license holders are prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunications business operation licenses to foreign investors in any form, and from providing any resource, sites or facilities to foreign investors to facilitate the illegal operation of a telecommunications business in China. The MIIT Notice also requires that value-added telecommunications services license holders (including their shareholders) directly own the domain names and registered trademarks used by such value-added telecommunications services license holders in their daily operations. The MIIT Notice further requires each value-added telecommunications services license holder to have the necessary facilities for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. For those who are not in compliance with the requirements above and fail to rectify the non-compliance within the period set by provincial communications administration bureaus, the provincial communications administration bureaus may revoke their operating licenses. Tech JV, our operating entity which provides online recruitment services, has obtained a value-added telecommunications business operation license permitting it to provide information service via the Internet and mobile networks. We may further modify our corporate structure to comply with these requirements. The continued growth of the Chinese Internet market depends on the establishment of an adequate telecommunications infrastructure. Although private sector Internet service providers currently exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication carriers under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the MIIT. In addition, the national networks in China connect to the Internet through a government-controlled international gateway. This international gateway is the only channel through which a domestic user can connect to the international Internet network. We rely on this infrastructure and China Telecom and China Unicom to provide data communications capacity, primarily through local telecommunications lines. We cannot assure you that this infrastructure will be developed. We have no access to alternative networks or services, on a timely basis or if at all, in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure or telecommunications networks. The Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet use. The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect us. The PRC legal system is based upon written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the PRC legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, the PRC has not developed a fully integrated legal system and the array of new laws and regulations may not be sufficient to cover all aspects of economic activities in the PRC. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, published government policies and internal rules may have retroactive effects and, in some cases, the policies and rules are not published at all. As a result, we may be unaware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time later. Our contractual arrangements with our affiliated entities are governed by the laws of the PRC. The enforcement of these contracts and the interpretation of the laws governing these relationships is subject to uncertainty. See “— Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure — The PRC laws and regulations governing our business operations and contractual arrangements are uncertain, and if we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions.” PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or limit us from making capital contributions or loans to our PRC subsidiaries. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore entity, make to our PRC subsidiaries are subject to PRC regulations. For example, none of our loans to a PRC subsidiary can exceed the difference between its total amount of investment and its registered capital approved under relevant PRC laws, and the loans must be registered with the local branch of the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE. Our capital contributions to our PRC subsidiaries must be approved by the MOFCOM or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the necessary registration or obtain the necessary approval on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to complete the necessary registration or obtain the necessary approval, our ability to make loans or equity contributions to our PRC subsidiaries may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect our PRC subsidiaries’ liquidity and their ability to fund their working capital and expansion projects and meet their obligations and commitments. 18 Table of Contents You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us or our management. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and the majority of our assets are located in China. In addition, many of our directors and executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC legal counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Registered public accounting firms in China, including our independent registered public accounting firm, are not inspected by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, which deprives us and our investors of the benefits of such inspection. Auditors of companies whose shares are registered with the SEC and traded publicly in the United States, including our independent registered public accounting firm, must be registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or the PCAOB, and are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards applicable to auditors. Our independent registered public accounting firm is located in, and organized under the laws of, the PRC, which is a jurisdiction where the PCAOB, notwithstanding the requirements of U.S. law, is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities. In May 2013, the PCAOB announced that it had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding on Enforcement Cooperation with the CSRC and the MOF, which establishes a cooperative framework between the parties for the production and exchange of audit documents relevant to investigations undertaken by the PCAOB, the CSRC or the MOF in the United States and the PRC, respectively. The PCAOB continues to be in discussions with the CSRC and the MOF to permit joint inspections in the PRC of audit firms that are registered with the PCAOB and audit Chinese companies that trade on U.S. exchanges. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from fully evaluating audits and quality control procedures of our independent registered public accounting firm. As a result, we and investors in our ADSs are deprived of the benefits of such PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections, which could cause investors and potential investors in our stock to lose confidence in our audit procedures and reported financial information and the quality of our financial statements. If additional remedial measures are imposed on the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in administrative proceedings brought by the SEC alleging the firms’ failure to meet specific criteria set by the SEC, we could be unable to timely file future financial statements in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC instituted administrative proceedings against the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had violated U.S. securities laws and the SEC’s rules and regulations thereunder by failing to provide to the SEC the firms’ audit work papers with respect to certain PRC-based companies that are publicly traded in the United States. On January 22, 2014, the Administrative Law Judge, or ALJ, presiding over the matter rendered an initial decision that each of the firms had violated the SEC’s rules of practice by failing to produce audit workpapers to the SEC. The initial decision censured each of the firms and barred them from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The Big Four PRC-based accounting firms appealed the ALJ’s initial decision to the SEC. The ALJ’s decision does not take effect unless and until it is endorsed by the SEC. In February 2015, each of the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms agreed to a censure and to pay a fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC and audit U.S.-listed companies. The settlement required the firms to follow detailed procedures and to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms’ audit documents via the CSRC. If future document productions fail to meet specified criteria, the SEC retains authority to impose a variety of additional remedial measures on the firms depending on the nature of the failure. While we cannot predict if the SEC will further review the Big Four PRC-based accounting firms’ compliance with specified criteria or if the results of such a review would result in the SEC imposing penalties such as suspensions or restarting the administrative proceedings, if the accounting firms are subject to additional remedial measures, our ability to file our financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could be impacted. A determination that we have not timely filed financial statements in compliance with SEC requirements could ultimately lead to the delisting of our ADSs from the NASDAQ Global Select Market or the termination of the registration of our ADSs under the Exchange Act, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. 19 Table of Contents Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Under our current structure, our income will be primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries and other payments such as royalty and licensing fees. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated entities to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, royalty payments or other fees to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. In July 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar and permitted the Renminbi to fluctuate within a managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar increased 1.0% in 2012 and 2.8% in 2013 but decreased 2.5% in 2014. Correspondingly, we recognized a loss from foreign currency translation of RMB0.4 million in 2012, a loss of RMB6.5 million in 2013 and a gain of RMB10.0 million (US$1.6 million) in 2014. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt a more flexible currency policy in the future, which could result in further and more significant revaluations of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. As a portion of our assets are denominated in U.S. dollars, any future upward revaluations of the Renminbi will result in charges to our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income and reductions in the value of these U.S. dollar denominated assets when translated into Renminbi. In addition, as we rely substantially on dividends, royalty payments and other fees paid to us in Renminbi by our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in the PRC, any significant downward revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. For further information on our foreign exchange risks and certain exchange rates, see “Item 3. — Key Information — Selected Financial Data — Exchange Rate Information” and “Item 11. — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign Exchange Risk.” PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and adversely impact our business and prospects. If our shareholders who are PRC residents fail to make any required registrations or filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. The SAFE has promulgated several regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents, including the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Round-Trip Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies, or Circular 75, which became effective on November 1, 2005. Circular 75 requires PRC residents (including PRC citizens and foreign citizens who primarily reside in China) to register with the relevant local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, referred to as an “offshore special purpose company,” for the purpose of raising funds from overseas to acquire or exchange the assets of, or acquiring equity interests in, PRC entities held by such PRC residents and to update such registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to that offshore company. Circular 75 applies retroactively, and as a result, PRC residents who have established or acquired control of offshore companies that have made onshore investments in China in the past are required to complete the relevant registration procedures with the SAFE. If any PRC resident fails to register with the SAFE with respect to its ownership of an existing offshore entity, dividends remitted by the onshore entity to its overseas parent may be considered an evasion of foreign exchange administration rules, and therefore, may be subject to penalties under relevant PRC foreign exchange laws and regulations. In addition, failure to comply with registration procedures may result in restrictions on the relevant onshore entity, including prohibitions on the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent or affiliate and on capital inflow from the offshore entity. 20 Table of Contents The SAFE promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Offshore Investment and Financing and Round-Trip Investment through Special Purpose Vehicles, or Circular 37, on July 4, 2014, which superseded Circular 75. Circular 37 requires PRC residents to register with local branches of the SAFE in connection with their direct establishment or indirect control of an offshore entity, for the purpose of overseas investment and financing, with such PRC residents’ legally owned assets or equity interests in domestic enterprises or offshore assets or interests, referred to in Circular 37 as a “special purpose vehicle.” Circular 37 further requires amendment to the registration in the event of any significant changes with respect to the special purpose vehicle, such as increase or decrease of capital contributed by PRC individuals, share transfer or exchange, merger, division or other material event. In the event that a PRC shareholder holding interests in a special purpose vehicle fails to fulfill the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that special purpose vehicle may be prohibited from making profit distributions to the offshore parent and from carrying out subsequent cross-border foreign exchange activities, and the special purpose vehicle may be restricted in its ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiary. Moreover, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for evasion of foreign exchange controls. According to the Notice on Further Simplify and Improve Administrative Policies Regarding Foreign Direct Investment issued by the SAFE on February 13, 2015, starting from June 1, 2015, all new such registrations (other than make-up registrations) will be handled by the authorized local banks instead of the local SAFE branches. These regulations apply to our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents or which have PRC residents as their ultimate owners and may apply to any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. We have notified shareholders of our common shares who we know are PRC residents to comply with these regulations and make the required registrations. However, as we may not be fully informed of the identities of all our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents, and the interpretation and enforcement of these SAFE regulations involve significant uncertainties, we cannot provide any assurance that all of our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents have fully complied or will fully comply with our request to make, obtain or update any applicable registrations in a timely manner, or at all. For example, we are not aware of available registration procedures with the SAFE for PRC residents that are non-PRC passport holders, which makes our shareholders who are foreign citizens residing in China currently unable to comply with these regulations. If any of our shareholders or beneficial holders is found to be in violation of these SAFE regulations, we may face severe consequences as discussed above. Any failure to comply with PRC regulations regarding the registration requirements for employee stock incentive plans may subject the PRC plan participants or us to fines and other legal or administrative sanctions. In March 2007, the SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule, to regulate foreign exchange procedures for PRC individuals participating in employee stock holding and stock option plans of overseas companies. On February 15, 2012, the SAFE promulgated the Circular on Certain Foreign Exchange Issues Relating to Domestic Individuals’ Participation in Stock Incentive Plan of Overseas-Listed Company, or the New Stock Option Rule. Upon the effectiveness of the New Stock Option Rule on February 15, 2012, the Stock Option Rule became void, although the basic requirements and procedures provided under the Stock Option Rule are kept unchanged in the New Stock Option Rule. Directors, supervisors, the senior management and other employees of the domestic subsidiary of an overseas-listed company (which shall include companies and other subsidiaries directly or indirectly established or controlled by such overseas-listed company in China) participating in any stock incentive plan of the overseas-listed company who are PRC citizens or who are non-PRC citizens residing in China for a continuous period of not less than one year, subject to a few exceptions, are required to register with the SAFE through a domestic qualified agent, which could be a PRC subsidiary of such overseas-listed company, and complete certain other procedures. We and our PRC employees, directors and executive officers are subject to these regulations. In addition, the SAT has issued circulars concerning employee share options. Under these circulars, individuals working in China who exercise share options will be subject to PRC individual income tax. We have obligations to file documents related to employee share options with relevant tax authorities and withhold the individual income taxes of employees who exercise their share options. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC optionees may be subject to fines and other legal and administrative sanctions. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Shares and Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market prices of the securities of companies with Internet related and online businesses have been extremely volatile and may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes or revisions by us to previously released operating and financial targets; · announcements by us or our competitors of new services, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; · conditions in our industry, which is the market for recruitment advertising services and other human resource related services in China; · additions or departures of key personnel; · fluctuations of exchanges rates between the Renminbi and U.S. dollar; and · pending or potential litigation or regulatory investigations. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. The future sales, or perceived future sales, by our existing shareholders of a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market or through private transactions could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If our shareholders sell, or are perceived as intending to sell, substantial amounts of our common shares or ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market or through private transactions, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales, or perceived potential sales, might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Common shares held by our existing shareholders and our affiliates may also be sold in the public market under, and subject to the restrictions contained in, Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. See “Item 6. — Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Compensation — Stock-Based Compensation Plans” for a description of outstanding options to purchase our common shares. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution of your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not offer you those rights unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities is either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. As a holder of ADSs, you may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying common shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying common shares in accordance with these instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the shares. Under our memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening either an annual general meeting or an extraordinary general meeting called to vote on matters requiring the approval of two thirds of the voting shares is 20 days. The minimum notice period for other extraordinary general meetings is 14 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the shares to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. 22 Table of Contents You may not receive distributions on common shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on common shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of common shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, common shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, common shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our common shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and the majority of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, many of our directors and executive officers are nationals or residents of jurisdictions other than the United States and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against our directors or executive officers. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (2013 Revision), as amended and revised from time to time, and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, shareholders of Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. There are uncertainties as to whether Cayman Islands courts would: · recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and · impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. 23 Table of Contents If we are considered a PRC resident under the EIT Law, dividends we pay to non-resident holders may be subject to PRC withholding tax and gains realized by non-resident holders on sale of ADSs or common shares may be subject to PRC income tax. If we are considered to be a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law, any dividends payable to non-resident enterprise holders of our common shares or ADSs may be treated as income derived from sources within PRC and therefore subject to a 10% withholding tax (or 20% in the case of non-resident individual holders) unless an applicable income tax treaty provides otherwise. In addition, capital gains realized by non-resident enterprise holders upon the disposition of our common shares or ADSs may be treated as income derived from sources within PRC and therefore subject to 10% income tax (or 20% in the case of non-resident individual holders) unless an applicable income tax treaty provides otherwise. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on any gains realized from the transfer of our common shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our common shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We believe that we were not a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for our taxable year ending on December 31, 2014, although there can be no assurance in this regard. However, we believe there is a material risk that we may become one in the future, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based on the past composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we believe that we were not a PFIC for our taxable year ending on December 31, 2014, although there can be no assurance in this regard. However, due to the volatility of the market price of our common shares, as represented by our ADSs, we believe there is a material risk that we may become one in the future. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the determination of whether we are a PFIC is made annually and our PFIC status for any particular year will depend upon the character of our income and assets and the value of our assets at such time. Accordingly, our PFIC status for any particular taxable year cannot be determined with certainty until after the close of that taxable year. In particular, our PFIC status may be determined in large part based on the market price of our common shares, as represented by our ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate and may fluctuate considerably given that the global capital markets have been experiencing extreme volatility. Accordingly, fluctuations in the market price of our common shares, as represented by our ADSs, may result in our being a PFIC in any future taxable year. Further, if it is determined that we do not own the stock of our affiliated PRC entities, which is held through contractual arrangements, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we may be treated as a PFIC for our current taxable year and any taxable year thereafter. There exist substantial uncertainties regarding the application, interpretation and enforcement of relevant current and future PRC laws and regulations and their potential effect on our corporate structure and contractual arrangements with certain of our affiliated PRC entities. There can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view different from those of our PRC legal counsel. Further, even if the uncertainties as to PRC laws and regulations did not exist, there are also substantial uncertainties as to the treatment of our corporate structure and ownership of these affiliated PRC entities for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which you hold our ADSs or common shares, such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are or become a PFIC, our U.S. investors may become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations, and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. Moreover, non-corporate U.S. investors will not be eligible for reduced rates on taxation on any dividends received from us, if we are a PFIC in the taxable year in which such dividends are paid or in the preceding taxable year. See “Item 10. — Additional Information — Taxation — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” 