RISK FACTORS The high level of competition in our industry could adversely affect our sales, operating results and profitability. The business of selling brand name consumer products in the over-the-counter drug, household cleaning and personal care categories is highly competitive. These markets include numerous manufacturers, distributors, marketers and retailers that actively compete for consumers’ business both in the United States and abroad. Our principal competitors vary by industry category. Competitors in the over-the counter drug category include Pfizer, maker of Visine, which competes with our Clear eyes brand; McNeill-PPC, maker of Tylenol Sore Throat, which competes with our Chloraseptic brand; Schering-Plough, maker of Dr. Scholl’s, which competes with our Compound W brand; Johnson & Johnson, maker of BAND-AID Brand Liquid Bandage, which competes with our New-Skin brand; and GlaxoSmithKline, maker of Debrox, which competes with our Murine brand. Competitors in the household cleaning category include Henkel, maker of Soft Scrub, and Clorox, maker of Tilex, each of which competes with our Comet brand, and Clorox’s Pine Sol, which competes with our Spic and Span brand. Competitors in the personal care category include Johnson & Johnson, maker of T-Gel shampoo, which competes with our Denorex brand, and Del Laboratories, maker of Sally Hansen, which competes with our Cutex brand. Many of these competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do, and may therefore have the ability to spend more aggressively on advertising and marketing and to respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions than us. If this were to occur, our sales, operating results and profitability would be adversely affected. Some of our product lines that account for a large percentage of our sales have a small market share relative to our competitors. For example, while Clear eyes has a number two market share position of 16.7%, its top competitor, Visine, has a market share of 41.7%. In contrast, some of our brands with number two market positions have a similar market share relative to our competitors. For example, Compound W has a number two market position of 33.7% and its top competitor, Dr. Scholl’s Clear Away®, has a market position of 40.0%. Also, while Cutex is the number one brand name nail polish remover with a market share of 29.0%, non-branded, private label nail polish removers account, in the aggregate, for 50.2% of the market. Finally, while our New-Skin liquid bandage product has a number one market position of 37.7%, the size of the liquid bandage market is relatively small, particularly when compared to the much larger bandage category. See “Market, Ranking and Other Data” section on page 22 of this document for information regarding market share calculations. We compete on the basis of numerous factors, including brand recognition, product quality, performance, price and product availability at retail stores. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging, the timing of new product introductions and line extensions also have a significant impact on consumer buying decisions and, as a result, on our sales. The structure and quality of the sales force, as well as consumption of our products affects in-store position, wall display space and inventory levels in retail stores. If we are unable to maintain or improve the inventory levels and in-store positioning of our products in retail stores, our sales and operating results will be adversely affected. Our markets also are highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. An increase in the amount of product introductions by our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. In addition, competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by us. Competitive pricing may require us to reduce prices and may result in lost sales or a reduction of our profit margins. Future price or product changes by our competitors may have a material adverse effect on us or we may be unable to react with price or product changes of our own to maintain our current market position. 16 We depend on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our gross sales and the loss of one or more of these customers could reduce our gross sales and therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For fiscal 2005, our top five and ten customers accounted for approximately 43% and 55% of our gross sales, respectively. Wal-Mart, which itself accounted for approximately 25% of our gross sales, is our only customer that accounted for 10% or more of our gross sales for fiscal 2005. We expect that for the year ending March 31, 2006 and future periods, our top five and ten customers, including Wal-Mart, will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a large portion of our gross sales. The loss of one or more of our top customers, any significant decrease in sales to these customers, or any significant decrease in our retail display space in any of these customers’ stores, could reduce our gross sales, and therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our business is based primarily upon individual sales orders. We typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers. Accordingly, our customers could cease buying products from us at any time and for any reason. The fact that we do not have long-term contracts with our customers means that we have no recourse in the event a customer no longer wants to purchase products from us. If a significant number of our customers elect not to purchase products from us, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on third party manufacturers to produce the products we sell. If we are unable to maintain these manufacturing relationships or fail to enter into additional or different arrangements, we may be unable to meet customer demand and our sales and profitability may suffer as a result. All of our products are produced by third party manufacturers. Without adequate supplies of merchandise to sell to our customers, sales would decrease materially and our business would suffer. In the event that our third party manufacturers are unable or unwilling to ship products to us in a timely manner or continue to manufacture products for us, we would have to rely on other current manufacturing sources or identify and qualify new manufacturers. We might not be able to identify or qualify such manufacturers for existing or new products in a timely manner and such manufacturers might not allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. In addition, identifying alternative manufacturers without adequate lead times can compromise required product validation and stability work, which may involve additional manufacturing expense, delay in production or product disadvantage in the marketplace. The consequences of not securing adequate and timely supplies of merchandise would negatively impact inventory levels, sales and gross margin rates, and ultimately our results of operations. In addition, even if our current manufacturers continue to manufacture our products, they may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with our standards or applicable regulatory requirements. If we are forced to rely on products of inferior quality, then our brand recognition and customer satisfaction would likely suffer, which would likely lead to reduced sales. These manufacturers may also increase the cost of the products we purchase from them. If our manufacturers increase our costs, our margins would be adversely affected if we cannot pass along these increased costs to our customers. As of March 31, 2005, we sold 94 types of products. We do not have long-term contracts with the manufacturers of 59 of those types of products. These 59 types of products accounted for approximately 29% of our gross sales for fiscal 2005. The fact that we do not have long-term contracts with these manufacturers means that they could cease manufacturing these products at any time and for any reason. 17 Disruption in our main distribution center may prevent us from meeting customer demand and our sales and profitability may suffer as a result. We manage our product distribution in the continental United States through a main distribution center in St. Louis, Missouri. A serious disruption, such as a flood or fire, to our main distribution center could damage our inventory and could materially impair our ability to distribute our products to customers in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost. We could incur significantly higher costs and experience longer lead times associated with distributing our products to our customers during the time that it takes for us to reopen or replace our distribution center. As a result, any such serious disruption could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. Efforts to acquire other companies, brands or product lines may divert our managerial resources away from our business operations, and if we complete an acquisition, we may incur or assume additional liabilities or experience integration problems. Part of our growth has been driven by acquiring other companies. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions with respect to possible material acquisitions or other business combinations that are intended to enhance our product portfolio, enable us to realize cost savings and further diversify our category, customer and channel focus. Our ability to successfully grow through acquisitions depends on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and to obtain any necessary financing. These efforts could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. If we complete acquisitions, we may also experience: · difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel and products into our existing business; · delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products; · higher costs of integration than we anticipated; · difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage the business; · difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout our acquired companies; or · adverse customer reaction to the business combination. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by causing us to incur debt or requiring us to amortize acquisition expenses and acquired assets. Regulatory matters governing our industry could have a significant negative effect on our sales and operating costs. In both our U.S. and foreign markets, we are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and other constraints exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United States and at analogous levels of government in foreign jurisdictions. The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, sale and storage of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the FDA, the FTC, the CPSC, the EPA, and by various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed and sold. If we or our third party manufacturers fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims, which could materially adversely affect our operating results or our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the adoption of 18 new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may adversely affect the marketing of our products, resulting in a significant loss of sales revenues. In accordance with the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDC Act, and FDA regulations, the manufacturing processes of our third party manufacturers must also comply with the FDA’s cGMPs. The FDA inspects our facilities and those of our third party manufacturers periodically to determine if we and our third party manufacturers are complying with cGMPs. A history of past compliance is not a guarantee that future cGMPs will not mandate other compliance steps and associated expense. If we or our third party manufacturers fail to comply with federal, state or foreign regulations, we could be required to: · suspend manufacturing operations; · change product formulations; · suspend the sale of products with non-complying specifications; · initiate product recalls; or · change product labeling, packaging or advertising or take other corrective action. Any of these actions could materially and adversely affect our financial results. In addition, our failure to comply with FTC or state regulations, or with regulations in foreign markets that cover our product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise materially and adversely affect the distribution and sale of our products. Product liability claims could adversely affect our sales and operating results. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by our products. We have been and may again be subjected to various product liability claims. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, our products contain contaminants, include inadequate instructions regarding their use or inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. For example, Denorex products contain coal tar which the State of California has determined causes cancer and our packaging contains a warning to this effect. In addition, any product liability claims may result in negative publicity that may adversely affect our sales and operating results. Also, if one of our products is found to be defective we may be required to recall it, which may result in substantial expense and adverse publicity and adversely affect our sales and operating results. Although we maintain, and require our material suppliers and third party manufacturers to maintain, product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or potential product liability claims may be excluded under the terms of the policy, which could hurt our financial condition. In addition, we may also be required to pay higher premiums and accept higher deductibles in order to secure adequate insurance coverage in the future. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights our ability to compete effectively in the market for our products could be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our trademarks and tradenames. The trademarks and tradenames on our products are how we convey that the products we sell are “brand name” products, and we believe consumers ascribe value to our brands. We own the material trademark and tradename rights used in connection with the packaging, marketing and sale of our products. This ownership is what prevents our competitors or new entrants to the market from 19 using our valuable brand names. Therefore, trademark and tradename protection is critical to our business. Although most of our material trademarks are registered in the United States and in applicable foreign countries, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or tradename protection. If we were to lose the exclusive right to use our brand names, our sales and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. We could also incur substantial costs to defend legal actions relating to the use of our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our brands in the marketplace. If our brands become diluted, or if our competitors are able to introduce brands that cause confusion with our brands in the marketplace, it could adversely affect the value that our consumers associate with our brands, and thereby negatively impact our sales. Any such infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. In addition, third parties may assert claims against our intellectual property rights and we may not be able to successfully resolve these claims. In that event, we may lose our ability to use the brand names that were the subject of these claims, which could have a material adverse impact on our sales and operating results. We depend on third parties for intellectual property relating to some of the products we sell, and our inability to maintain or enter into additional or future license agreements may result in our failure to meet customer demand, which would adversely affect our operating results. We have licenses or manufacturing agreements with third parties that own intellectual property (e.g., formulae, copyrights, trade dress, patents and other technology) used in the manufacture and sale of some of our products. In the event that any such license or manufacturing agreement is terminated as a result of our breach (e.g., by our failure to pay royalties or breach of confidentiality), we may lose the right to use or have reduced rights to use the intellectual property covered by such agreement and may have to develop or obtain rights to use other intellectual property. Similarly, our rights could be reduced if the applicable licensor or contract manufacturer fails to maintain the licensed patents or trade secrets because in such event our competitors could obtain the right to use the intellectual property without restriction. If this were to occur, we might not be able to develop or obtain replacement intellectual property in a timely manner and the products modified as a result of this development may not be well-received by customers. The consequences of losing the right to use or having reduced rights to such intellectual property could negatively impact our results of operations through failure to meet consumer demand for the affected products, the cost of developing or obtaining different intellectual property and possible reduction in sales of the affected products. In addition, development of replacement products may be time-consuming, expensive and ultimately may not be feasible. We depend on our key personnel and the loss of the services provided by any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management, many of whom would be difficult to replace. These employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. We may not be able to successfully retain existing personnel or identify, hire and integrate new personnel. While we believe we have developed depth and experience among our key personnel, our business may be adversely affected if one or more of these key individuals left. We do not maintain any key-man or similar insurance policies covering any of our senior management or key personnel. 20 Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and the significant amount of cash we must generate to service our debt will not be available to reinvest in our business. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of March 31, 2005, our total indebtedness, including current maturities, is approximately $495.4 million, and we are able to borrow an additional $60.0 million under our amended revolving credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness could: · increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and · limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds. The terms of the indenture governing the 9¼% senior subordinated notes and the senior credit facility allow us to issue and incur additional debt upon satisfaction of conditions set forth in the respective agreements. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the related risks described above could intensify. Our operating flexibility is limited in significant respects by the restrictive covenants in the senior credit facility and the indenture governing the notes. The senior credit facility and the indenture governing the notes impose restrictions on us that could increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and industry. Specifically, these restrictions limit our ability to: · borrow money or issue guarantees; · pay dividends, purchase stock or make other restricted payments to shareholders; · make investments; · use assets as security in other transactions; · sell assets or merge with or into other companies; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · sell stock in our subsidiaries; and · create or permit restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to our company. Our ability to engage in these types of transactions is generally limited by the terms of the senior credit facility and the indenture governing the notes, even if we believe that a specific transaction would positively contribute to our future growth, operating results or profitability. However, if we are able to enter into these types of transactions under the terms of the senior credit facility and the indenture, or if we obtain a waiver with respect to any specific transaction, that transaction may cause our indebtedness to increase, may not result in the benefits we anticipate or may cause us to incur greater costs or suffer greater disruptions in our business than we anticipate, and could therefore negatively impact our business and operating results. 21 In addition, the senior credit facility requires us to meet specified financial ratios. For example, we must: · have a leverage ratio of less than 5.50 to 1.0 for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, and decreasing over time to 3.75 to 1.0 for the quarter ending September 30, 2010, and remaining level thereafter. Our leverage ratio was less than 5.50 to 1.0 for the quarter ended March 31, 2005; · have an interest coverage ratio of greater than 2.50 to 1.0 for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, and increasing to 3.25 to 1.0 for the quarter ending March 31, 2011. Our interest coverage ratio was greater than 2.50 to 1.0 for the quarter ended March 31, 2005; and · have a fixed charge coverage ratio of greater than 1.5 to 1.0 for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, and for each quarter thereafter until the quarter ending March 31, 2011. Our fixed charge coverage ratio was greater than 1.5 to 1.0 for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. Although we believe we are on track to meet and/or maintain these financial ratios, our ability to do so may be affected by events outside our control. Covenants in our senior credit facility also require us to use 100% of the proceeds we receive from debt issuances to repay outstanding borrowings under our senior credit facility. The senior credit facility and the indenture governing the notes contain cross-default provisions that may result in the acceleration of all our indebtedness. The senior credit facility and the indenture governing the notes contain provisions that allow the respective creditors to declare all outstanding borrowings under one agreement to be immediately due and payable as a result of a default under the other agreement. The result is that upon our default under one debt agreement, all indebtedness may become immediately due and payable under the senior credit facility and the indenture. Under the senior credit facility, failure to make a payment required by the indenture, among other things, may lead to an event of default under the credit agreement. Similarly, an event of default or failure to make a required payment at maturity under the senior credit facility, among other things, may lead to an event of default under the indenture. If the debt under the senior credit facility and indenture were to both be accelerated, the aggregate amount immediately due and payable as of March 31, 2005 would have been approximately $495.4 million. We presently do not have sufficient liquidity to repay these borrowings if they were to be accelerated, and we may not have sufficient liquidity in the future. Additionally, we may not be able to borrow money from other lenders to enable us to refinance the indebtedness. As of March 31, 2005, the book value of our current assets was $79.7 million. Although the book value of our total assets was $1,001.1 million, approximately $903.2 million was in the form of intangible assets, a significant portion of which are illiquid and may not be available to satisfy our creditors in the event our debt is accelerated. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the senior credit facility, the indenture related to the notes or any other subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, as well as any other debt to which the cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions applies. In addition, the lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds. MARKET, RANKING AND OTHER DATA The data included in this Form 10-K regarding market share and ranking, including our position and the position of our competitors within these markets are based on data generated by the independent market research firm Information Resources, Inc., which we refer to as “Information Resources.” Information Resources reports retail sales in the food, drug and mass merchandise markets. Information Resources data for the mass merchandise market, however, does not include Wal-Mart, which ceased 22 providing sales data to Information Resources in 2001. Although Wal-Mart represents a significant portion of the mass merchandise market for us, as well as our competitors, we believe that Wal-Mart’s exclusion from Information Resources data does not significantly change our market share or ranking relative to our competitors. Unless otherwise indicated, all references in this Form 10-K to: · “market share” or “market position” are based on sales in the United States, as calculated by Information Resources for the 52 weeks ended March 20, 2005. · “ACV” refer to the All Commodity Volume Food Drug Mass Index, as calculated by Information Resources for the 52 weeks ended March 20, 2005. ACV measures the weighted sales volume of stores that sell a particular product out of all the stores that sell products in that market segment generally. For example, if a product is sold by 50% of the stores that sell products in that market segment, but those stores account for 85% of the sales volume in that market segment, that product would have an ACV of 85%. We believe that ACV is a measure of a product’s importance to major retailers. We believe that a high ACV evidences a product’s attractiveness to consumers, as major retailers will try and carry products which are demanded by its customers. Lower ACV measures would indicate that a product is not as available to consumers because major national and regional retailers do not carry products for which consumer demand may not be as high. For these reasons, we believe that ACV is an important measure to investors in brand name consumer product companies like Prestige. 