Item 1A. Risk Factors. As a holding company, we are totally dependent on dividends from our operating subsidiary to pay dividends and other obligations. We are a holding company with no business operations. As a result, we must rely on payments from our subsidiary to meet our obligations. In March 2006, we declared our first regular quarterly dividend. We currently intend to continue paying regular quarterly dividends to our stockholders. We currently expect that the earnings and cash flow of our subsidiary will primarily be retained and used by it in its operations, including servicing any debt obligations it may have in the future. Accordingly, our subsidiary may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to pay a dividend or distribute funds to us in order to allow us to pay a dividend on or make a distribution in respect of our common stock. Moreover, future credit facilities, other future debt obligations and statutory provisions, may limit our ability to pay dividends. Our business is primarily transaction-based, and decreases in contract trading volume would harm our business and profitability. Our net transaction fees accounted for approximately 71% of our gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2005 and approximately 75% of our gross margin for the comparable period in 2006. Our contract trading volume is dependent on the cash equity markets. In the event that a stock or index does not trade for any reason, our options on that stock or index will not trade, and, as a result, our revenues will suffer for that period. Also, equity trading volumes correlate with equity options trading volumes. Declines in the volume of stock or index trading may negatively impact market liquidity on our exchange, which would result in lower transaction-based revenues. Accordingly, our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the U.S. and global financial markets. We derive our transaction-based revenues only from trades executed on behalf of broker-dealers and not from trades executed on behalf of their non-broker-dealer customers (i.e., institutional and individual investors) except premium products. A decline in trades executed on behalf of broker-dealers would adversely affect our revenues even if trades executed on behalf of institutional and individual investors were stable or increased. See also “—Market fluctuations, industry dynamics and economic and political factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer.” We derive a substantial portion of our net transaction fee revenues from a few significant exchange members, who, as a group, may exert control and influence over our business and operations. Historically, we have generated a substantial amount of our net transaction fee revenues from a few significant exchange members. For example, our 10 largest exchange members and their affiliates accounted for 77.4% of our net transaction fee revenues for 2006 and 79.0% of our net transaction fee revenues for 2005. For 2006, Goldman, Sachs & Co. accounted for 16.1%, Citadel Investment Group LLC accounted for 12.2% and Interactive Brokers Group accounted for 10.9% of our net transaction fee revenues. For 2005, Citadel Investment Group LLC accounted for 14.9% and Goldman, Sachs & Co. for 13.9% of our net transaction fee revenues. If any of these significant exchange members substantially reduce their trading activity on our exchange for any reason, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, our exchange members consist almost entirely of financial services institutions. The number of these institutions has decreased in recent years as a result of a high degree of merger activity within the financial services industry. If any of our existing or future exchange members are affected by continued consolidation within the financial services industry, our revenues might become concentrated in an even smaller number of exchange members. Our exchange members, as a group, control and influence our business and operations in numerous ways, including the following: • PMM and CMM exchange members have “core rights” that require us to obtain their approval in order to increase the number of authorized PMMs or CMMs on our exchange. While we have no current 26 Table of Contents intention to request an increase in the number of authorized PMM and CMM trading rights, it is important to note that we have, in the past, generated substantial income from the sale of exchange memberships. That being the case, with respect to current authorized but unsold PMMs or CMMs, we anticipate selling all of the remaining unsold 10 CMM trading rights and may effect such sales at any time (although we do not expect to generate material future income from the sale of new exchange memberships). At this time, we have no present agreements with any entity with respect to the purchase of CMM trading rights and cannot assure you that any such sales will occur. • In addition to their limited right to vote on certain of our corporate governance matters, our exchange members engage in trading activities that constitute a primary source of our revenues. Our dependence on our exchange members for revenues gives them substantial influence over how we operate our business. PMM and CMM trading rights, which represent the right to trade on our exchange and certain limited voting rights, have substantial independent value. The amount of income that exchange members derive from their trading activities on our exchange and the value of their trading rights is, in part, dependent on the fees they are charged to access and trade on our exchange and the rules and market structure of our exchange. As a result, holders of our common stock who are not also exchange members may not have the same economic interests as holders of our common stock who are also exchange members. In addition, our exchange members may have differing interests among themselves depending on the role they serve in our markets, their methods of trading and the products they trade. Consequently, exchange members may advocate that we enhance and protect their trading opportunities and the value of their exchange memberships over their economic interest in us as stockholders. In addition, exchange memberships, which entitle our exchange members to core rights, could be used to influence how our business is changed or developed, including how we address competition and how we seek to grow our volume and revenue and enhance value for our stockholders. Our cost structure is largely fixed. If our revenues decline and we are unable to reduce our costs, our profitability will be adversely affected. Our cost structure is largely fixed. We base our cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services. If demand for our products and services and our resulting revenues decline, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis. In that event, our profitability would be adversely affected. We face substantial competition that could negatively impact our contract trading volume and our profitability. The financial services industry and, in particular, the options trading business in which we engage are very competitive, and we expect competition to continue to intensify in the future. Our current and prospective competitors, both domestically and internationally, are numerous. They include securities and securities options exchanges and futures exchanges. Other companies have entered into or may form joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. Others may become competitive with us through acquisitions. Consolidations and alliances among our current competitors may create larger liquidity pools than we offer. The resulting larger liquidity pools may attract orders away from us, leading to a decline in our trading volumes and liquidity which would result in decreased revenues. In addition, consolidations or alliances among our current competitors may achieve cost reductions or other increases in efficiency, which may allow them to offer better prices or services than we do. At this time, it is unclear what effect, if any, these consolidations and alliances will ultimately have upon the competitive landscape of the options industry if exchanges become part of larger, well-capitalized organizations. Many of our competitors and potential competitors may have greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources than we do. These factors may enable them to develop similar products, to provide lower 27 Table of Contents transaction costs and better execution to their customers and to carry out their business strategies more quickly and efficiently than we can, any of which may result in a decrease in our market share. Our competitors may: • respond more quickly to competitive pressures due to their corporate structures, which may be more flexible and efficient than our corporate structure; • develop products that are preferred by our exchange members; • develop risk transfer products that compete with our products; • price their products and services more competitively; • develop and expand their network infrastructure and service offerings more efficiently; • utilize better, more user-friendly and more reliable technology; • consolidate and form alliances, which may create higher volume, cost reduction and better pricing than we offer; • more effectively market, promote and sell their products and services; and • better leverage existing relationships with customers and alliance partners or exploit better recognized brand names to market and sell their services. In addition, our competitors may seek to attract contract trading volume from us through internalization of order flow and preferencing practices. Internalization of order flow occurs when a broker-dealer trades against its own customers’ orders. Preferencing allows order entry firms to direct order flow to certain market makers. Currently, our rules permit our exchange members to trade with a certain percentage of their own customers’ orders after an auction in which other exchange members have an opportunity to participate in that trade. If other exchanges succeed in amending their rules to permit order flow providers to internalize a higher percentage of customer orders than we can now permit, those exchanges may succeed in attracting contract trading volume and revenue from us before we are able to amend our rules and/or make system adjustments. In addition, if other options exchanges are more successful in attracting preferenced orders, this may result in a decrease in our market share. See “Business—Industry Landscape.” We face substantial competition from well-established competitors that could negatively impact our contract trading volume and profitability. We currently face substantial competition from the five other options exchanges now operating in the U.S.: CBOE, AMEX, PHLX, NYSE Arca and BOX. While we benefited from an initial advantage due to our low-cost, all-electronic model, that advantage has begun to dissipate and will continue to dissipate. All exchanges now have some form of an electronic trading system, some of which operate in tandem with a physical trading floor. These changes in their operations threaten to curb the growth of our contract trading volume or decrease our contract trading volume. For example, CBOE launched its CBOEdirect HyTS platform, which allows market makers to input real-time quotes into its electronic trading system. AMEX introduced its ANTE trading system which allows non-specialist market makers to improve AMEX’s quoted price and have that improved price be displayed as the best exchange quote. In addition, AMEX implemented a new hybrid market structure, limited to equity products and ETFs, that provides for a single marketplace that integrates automatic execution and floor-based auction trading. To facilitate this hybrid market, AMEX implemented a new trading platform designated as the AEMI platform. The PHLX XL is PHLX’s electronic platforms, which is similarly intended to drive down costs and compete with us for contract trading volume. See “Business—Industry Landscape—Issues Confronting the Securities Industry—Competition.” We may face additional competition from new entrants that could negatively impact our contract trading volume and profitability. We may also be adversely affected by competition from new entrants into our markets. Competition within the options trading industry could increase if new options exchanges are established or if existing securities 28 Table of Contents exchanges that do not currently trade options determine to do so. On March 7, 2006, NYSE entered our markets through its merger with Archipelago. Furthermore, Nasdaq entered the options market in April 2006 with its announcement that it would provide connectivity and order routing to options exchanges. On September 7, 2006, Nasdaq announced plans to introduce an equity and index options market in the third quarter of 2007, offering price/time priority. The experiences of ISE and BOX, which commenced operations in February 2004, indicate that the regulatory and financial barriers to entry for new exchanges are surmountable. The appearance of new competitors may reduce margins for all existing options exchanges, including us, and increase the importance of scale efficiencies. Our ability to continually maintain and enhance our competitiveness and respond to threats from existing or new competitors will have a direct impact on our results of operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively. If our products, markets and services are not competitive, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially harmed. In addition, even if new entrants do not significantly erode our contract trading volume, we may be required to reduce our fees significantly to remain competitive, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. See “Business—Industry Landscape—Issues Confronting the Securities Industry—Competition.” We are dependent on our executive officers and other key personnel, and we may not be able to execute our current business strategy effectively or recognize and pursue new strategic opportunities and initiatives if we lose them. Our future success depends, in large part, upon the individual employees who represent us in dealings with our exchange members, execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. In particular, we are highly dependent on the continued services of David Krell, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Gary Katz, our Chief Operating Officer, and other executive officers, key employees and technical personnel who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. The diminution or loss of the services of David Krell or Gary Katz for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from that diminution or loss, would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have entered into employment agreements with David Krell and Gary Katz and all our executive officers. These agreements are important to the future of our business, and if we were to lose our rights under these agreements for any reason, our business may be materially adversely affected. We may have to incur costs to replace key employees that leave, and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace departing employees in a timely manner. Competition in our industry for financial and technical personnel is intense. You cannot be assured that we would be able to find an appropriate replacement for David Krell or Gary Katz or any other executive officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel if the need should arise. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our executive officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. If we lose the services of any executive officers or other key personnel, we may not be able to manage and grow our operations effectively, enter new markets or develop new products. We also may have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining replacements for departing employees. In addition, significant losses of key personnel, particularly to other options exchanges with which we compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are dependent on certain material contracts relating to our technology. We currently have two principal contracts, the DLA and the Support Agreement, with OMX. OMX specializes in developing and supporting software for electronic exchanges and has delivered electronic trading systems to a number of international exchanges and clearing houses. Under the DLA, OMX granted certain licenses to us related to the use of certain software products, including the CLICK Exchange platform, which has been adapted for our central exchange system, and CLICK Trade, a trading application for entering orders and quotes and viewing market information. Under the DLA, OMX has also granted to us the right to sub-license the use of CLICK Trade to our exchange members. The scope of the DLA allows us to use the CLICK Exchange 29 Table of Contents platform in the U.S. for equities products based on cash and derivatives, as well as for derivatives on fixed income, currency and commodities. OMX’s platform and software, which are the subject of various patents, form a substantial portion of our central exchange system. The term of the licenses for the software products pursuant to the DLA is 99 years from March 18, 1998. These licenses are integral to our business and are generally terminable by OMX if we breach the terms of the licenses or fail to perform any obligation under the licenses, such as maintaining confidentiality and keeping a record of all sublicenses, or fail to perform any obligation under the DLA, including payment obligations. In the event of termination, we are required to return OMX’s platform and software and all related documentation. Under the Support Agreement, OMX undertook to provide us with customer service and support with respect to our use and operation of the software that it licensed to us and also undertook to develop and deliver corrective releases and enhancements. The Support Agreement will automatically terminate prior to its expiration on December 23, 2010, if the DLA or the license to the software products covered by the DLA is terminated. In addition, OMX is entitled to terminate the Support Agreement if we fail to perform any of our material obligations thereunder, such as a default of payment that continues for 30 days. In addition, on September 28, 2006, we entered into a new binding agreement with OMX. This agreement provides for a period of exclusive dealings with OMX and the general terms and conditions which will be contained in definitive agreements pursuant to which OMX will develop, deliver, and license certain exchange application software and related technology to us and provide customary on-going maintenance and support services. This new software license is intended to replace our current OMX license. The new license will allow us to use OMX’s technology and software in the U.S. for derivatives on cash equities, fixed income, currency and commodities, as well as cash equities. We will pay a total license and development fee in the range of $5.2 million to $11.8 million, based on the scope and complexity of the development effort. The term of the new license is 99 years. We may terminate this arrangement if prior to acceptance of the software: • there is any fundamental change to OMX’s software or technology; • OMX determines to cease the commercial development or ceases to make material progress towards the commercial development of the software and technology; or • OMX commits a material breach of any provision of this arrangement and fails to resolve such breach within a reasonable time after receiving notice. If we terminate the agreement, then we will be obligated to pay OMX all amounts accrued. In addition, we have the right to opt out of the arrangement if we undergo a merger or acquisition on or before a specified date or if OMX undergoes a change of control. If we opt out under those circumstances, then OMX will retain fees accrued to them and we will pay a pre-determined opt out penalty fee. The premature termination of either of these agreements, or the inability of OMX to fulfill its obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons, and the consequent loss of software or support by OMX would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We could be forced to spend significant time and money to replace the licensed software and services, and we cannot provide any assurance that replacements would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. See “Business—Technology—Options Trading System—OMX.” Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights or our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others could adversely affect our business. We rely primarily on trade secret, copyright, trademark and patent law and contractual protections to protect our proprietary technology and other proprietary rights. As a fully-electronic exchange, we are dependent on 30 Table of Contents technology and related intellectual property rights, and therefore more vulnerable to intellectual property rights infringements. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights. We may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend ourselves against the assertion of intellectual property rights by others. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources and the attention of management, any of which could negatively affect our business. Also, we may choose not to enforce our infringed intellectual property rights, depending on our strategic evaluation and judgment regarding the best use of our intellectual property portfolio and the recourse available to us. Patents of third parties may have an important bearing on our ability to offer certain of our products and services. Our competitors, as well as other companies and individuals, may obtain or may have obtained patents related to the technologies for trading the types of products and providing the services we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. In addition, some patent applications in the U.S. are confidential until a patent is issued and, therefore, we cannot evaluate the extent to which technology concerning our products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered by claims contained in pending patent applications. In general, if one or more of our products or services were found by a court to infringe patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to obtain licenses to develop and market the services from the holders of the patents or to redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing those patents. For example, on November 2, 2006, we initiated the ISE NY Action to end the exclusive listing of certain index options. We asked the District Court to issue a declaratory judgment ordering that we do not need a license to list index options on the DJIA and S&P 500 Index. Currently, these two actively-traded index options trade exclusively on CBOE pursuant to licensing agreements between CBOE, Dow Jones, and McGraw-Hill. On November 15, 2006, Dow Jones, McGraw-Hill, and CBOE filed a complaint against us and OCC in the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, asking the Circuit Court to issue a declaratory judgment, among other things, that we may not list index options on the DJIA and S&P 500 Index without a license from Dow Jones and McGraw-Hill (the “Defendants’ Action”). On December 22, 2006, Dow Jones and McGraw-Hill filed a motion to dismiss or stay the ISE NY Action pending a decision in the Defendants’ Action. We intend to file papers in the ISE NY Action opposing the defendants’ motion to dismiss or stay, and asking the court to stay all proceedings in the Defendants’ Action while the ISE NY Action proceeds. In addition, on November 22, 2006, we filed a complaint in the District Court against CBOE for its infringement of ISE Patent No. 6,405,180, entitled “Automated Exchange for Matching Bids Between a Party and a Counterparty Based on a Relationship Between the Counterparty and the Exchange.” We have asked the District Court to enter judgment that CBOE’s activities infringe on the patent, to order CBOE to cease infringement of the patent, and to pay to ISE adequate damages to compensate ISE for CBOE’s infringement. We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, and are unable to redesign our products or services to avoid infringement of any such patents, this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. An adverse ruling arising out of any intellectual property dispute could also subject us to significant liability for damages. We have a short operating history. This makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects, may increase the risk that we will not continue to be successful and increases the risk of your investment. We began our operations as the first fully-electronic equity options exchange in the U.S. on May 26, 2000, and therefore we have a short operating history for you to evaluate in assessing our future prospects. As a result, 31 Table of Contents our historical and recent financial business results may not be representative of what they may be in the future. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our growth will continue at the same rate or at all or that we will not experience declines in revenue and profitability in the future. We may have difficulty executing our growth strategy and managing our growth effectively. We have experienced significant growth in our business activities over the last few years, which has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and resources. Continued growth will require continued investment in personnel, facilities, information technology infrastructure and financial and management systems and controls. We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support our growth. Unless our growth results in an increase in our revenues that is proportionate to the increase in our costs associated with this growth, our gross margin and our future profitability will be adversely affected, and we may have to incur significant expenditures to address the additional operational and control requirements of this growth. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate potential acquisition opportunities and strategic alliances in the future. Any such transaction may be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets and operations. The market for acquisition targets and strategic alliances is highly competitive, particularly in light of increasing consolidation, which may adversely affect our ability to find acquisition candidates or strategic partners that fit our growth strategy and our investment parameters. These transactions involve numerous risks, including, among others: • failure to achieve financial or operating objectives; • failure to integrate successfully and in a timely manner any operations, products, services or technology we may acquire or combine with in a strategic alliance; • diversion of the attention of management and other key personnel; • failure to obtain necessary regulatory or other approvals; • potential loss of exchange members or personnel; and • failure to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms. Failure to manage successfully any potential acquisition we may make in the future could adversely affect our growth strategy and our future profitability. We may face similar risks in managing future strategic alliances. The up-front costs of expanding, improving and upgrading our trading platform may not produce substantial revenue. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant up-front investments in our trading platform, including investments in technology, infrastructure and dedicated personnel, in order to pursue new growth opportunities. We may incur substantial development, sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort to add a new product or service to our trading platform. Even after incurring these costs, we ultimately may not sell any or may sell only small amounts of these products or services. Consequently, if revenue does not increase in a timely fashion as a result of these expansion initiatives, the up-front costs associated with expansion may exceed revenue and reduce our working capital and income. Computer systems failures or capacity constraints could harm our business. We support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks internally. Our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for such technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our operations. Our systems are located in downtown New York City and Jersey City, New Jersey, and the causes for the disruption at one facility may also disrupt our systems at the other facility. In these circumstances, our redundant systems or 32 Table of Contents disaster recovery plans may not be adequate. Similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. Our systems, or those of our third party providers, may fail, provide insufficient capacity or operate slowly, causing one or more of the following: • unanticipated disruptions in service to our exchange members; • slower response times; • delays in our exchange members’ trade executions; • decreased satisfaction by exchange members with our service; • incomplete, untimely or inaccurate accounting, recording, reporting or processing of trades; • financial losses; and • litigation or other claims. We cannot assure you that we will not experience systems failures or periods of insufficient systems capacity from shortages of available bandwidth, power or telecommunications failure, acts of God, war, terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, power loss, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. Liquidity in our markets could be adversely affected by quoting in penny increments and could result in an adverse effect on our profitability. The listed equity and index options markets currently quote in five- and 10-cent increments. The SEC has directed the options exchanges to initiate a pilot program for the quoting and trading of equity options in penny increments. This pilot program began on January 26, 2007 and includes 13 securities. The impact of trading these options in penny increments will be studied during the pilot program. The number of equity options and possibly index options, quoted and traded in penny increments may be substantially increased during the pilot program. It is possible that all equity and index options will eventually be quoted and traded in penny increments. We cannot predict whether, or how rapidly, additional or all equity options and index options will be quoted and traded in penny increments. Penny increments may negatively impact market makers’ willingness to provide the depth of liquidity they currently provide. For example, an option trading in penny increments has 10 times the number of price points as an option trading in 10-cent increments. Thus, for every 10-cent price point a market maker is currently willing to quote, it might make several penny price point quotes of smaller size. To the extent that market makers are unwilling to increase the aggregate dollar amount they quote, quote size would likely be diluted as they spread their quotes across more price points. As a result, our markets could lose depth and attract less order flow, thereby reducing our contract trading volume and revenue. In addition, penny quoting could lead to a decrease in liquidity for large-size orders and decreased market makers’ profitability throughout our industry, which could lead to pricing pressures on options exchanges, including us. See “Business—Industry Landscape—Issues Confronting the Securities Industry.” Penny quoting may require us to incur substantial increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event that the penny pilot program results in trading of all or a substantial number of equity and index options in penny increments, we would expect significant increases in quotation traffic. Quotation traffic has grown considerably in the past few years as a result of increases in the number of actively traded options series and greater reliance by all exchanges on electronic trading systems for transmitting and updating quotations. Substantial increases in bandwidth capacity are required for the exchanges to transmit properly the increased 33 Table of Contents volume of quotations. Expansion of the pilot program for quoting in penny increments could result in a shortage of bandwidth capacity that would require us to make immediate improvements to our technology infrastructure to avoid systems failure or periods of insufficient systems capacity that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service. Any such failure or negative impact on our service could damage our reputation, business and brand name. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. Additionally, by requiring upgrades to broker-dealer, exchange and market data provider systems in order to handle increased quote traffic, penny increment quoting may increase costs across the industry and could have a material adverse effect on our business. See “Business—Industry Landscape—Issues Confronting the Securities Industry.” We depend on third party suppliers and service providers for a number of services that are important to our business. An interruption or cessation of an important supply or service by any third party could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on a number of suppliers, such as banking, clearing and settlement organizations such as OCC, processors of market information generated by the trading of options such as OPRA, telecommunications companies such as Verizon, online service providers, other data processors and software and hardware vendors, such as OMX, industry tape and quote associations, and H-P for elements of our trading, clearing and other systems, as well as communications and networking equipment, computer hardware and software and related support and maintenance. We cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. An interruption or malfunction in or the cessation of an important supply or service by any third party and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, or at all, would result in lost revenue and higher costs. Our networks and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks, which could result in wrongful use of our information or cause interruptions in our operations that cause us to lose exchange members and contract trading volume and result in significant liabilities. We could also be required to incur significant expense to protect our systems. We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to continue to be a critical element of our operations. Our networks and those of our third party service providers and our exchange members may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Any of these events could cause us to lose exchange members or contract trading volume. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by breaches. Our security measures may prove to be inadequate and result in system failures and delays that could cause us to lose exchange members, experience lower contract trading volume and incur significant liabilities. Expansion of our operations internationally involves special challenges that we may not be able to meet, which could adversely affect our financial results. One component of our future strategy is to expand our operations internationally, including forming exchange linkages and joint ventures. We face certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the regulated derivatives exchange business. These risks include: • restrictions on the use of trading terminals or the contracts that may be traded; • becoming subject to extensive regulations and oversight, tariffs and other trade barriers; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • strong competition; 34 Table of Contents • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, we will be required to comply with the laws and regulations of foreign governmental and regulatory authorities of each country in which we conduct business. These may include laws, rules and regulations relating to any aspect of the derivatives business. To date, we have had limited experience in marketing and operating our products and services internationally. We cannot assure you that we will be able to succeed in marketing our products and services in international markets. We may also experience difficulty in managing our international operations because of, among other things, competitive conditions overseas, management of foreign exchange risk, established domestic markets in areas which we may consider, language and cultural differences and economic or political instability. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the success of our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business is highly dependent on equity options, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our strong dependence upon revenues derived from the transaction-based equity options business may place us at a competitive disadvantage. The revenues of some of our competitors may be more diversified than ours as a result of their broader product offerings. For example, CBOE realizes revenues from trading certain options on stock market indexes, for which CBOE has acquired exclusive licenses. While options on equities are cross-listed on multiple exchanges, the most heavily traded index options are traded exclusively on a single exchange so that we are unable to meaningfully compete in that market. We do not believe we will earn significant revenues from index trading until the exclusive licensing of indexes ends, or existing non-exclusive or new non-exclusive indexes gain in volume. Lower revenues from transaction fees or market data fees on equity options may impact our operating results and future profitability more significantly than that of our competitors, providing them with a competitive advantage in pricing their products and services or withstanding a reduction in the contract trading volume of equity options. See “Business—Our Growth Strategy—Developing New Products and Diversifying Product Base—Index Trading.” Price competition has impacted, and may continue to impact, our business. The securities trading industry is characterized by price competition. At present, we compete with five other securities exchanges based in the U.S. that also list equity options. We may face additional price competition in the future from foreign exchanges, as well as other U.S.-based securities exchanges that do not presently list equity options. In recent years, the pricing model for trading equity options has changed in response to competitive market conditions. Some of our competitors have recently lowered their transaction costs and accordingly reduced the prices they charge. Reduced prices may result in lower operating margins or losses for us, which may adversely impact our business. As long as other exchanges have exclusive licenses on certain index options, which have high margins commensurate with their exclusivity, those exchanges may be able to lower their transaction fees and prices for other products, such as the equity options we trade. Price competition is intensified through payment-for-order-flow arrangements. Payment-for-order-flow is a practice whereby a market maker on an options exchange offers an order entry firm cash or other economic incentives to route its customer orders to that market maker’s exchange through an exchange administered program. As long as payment-for-order-flow arrangements remain the industry standard, we face the competitive risk that other exchanges will erode our contract trading volume by paying more through their payment-for-order-flow programs than our exchange members are willing or able to pay. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. For a discussion of our payment-for-order-flow program and payment-for-order-flow programs generally, see “Business—Industry Landscape.” We may be required to change the manner in which we conduct business or govern ourselves or incur increased costs as a result of changes in rules and regulations relating to SROs. Changes in the rules and regulations affecting SROs by the SEC could result in changes in the manner in which we conduct business or govern ourselves. New rules also could, among other things, make it more difficult 35 Table of Contents or more costly for us to conduct our existing business or enter into new businesses. For example, in November 2004, the SEC proposed corporate governance, transparency, oversight and ownership rules for SROs such as us, and issued a concept release examining the efficacy of self-regulation by SROs. While there has not been any SEC action in this respect, we do not know whether the specific proposals made in November 2004 or other proposals in this area will be adopted and cannot predict or estimate the full extent to which any such change in regulations may affect us or our operations or the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. See “Business—Regulation.” Market fluctuations, industry dynamics and economic and political factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer. The global financial services industry is, by its nature, risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond the control of its participants, including us. Any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the U.S. and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. These events could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. For these reasons our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Each of the risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, and the following factors, may affect our operating results: • economic, political and market conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world; • broad trends in industry and finance; • concerns about terrorism and war; • concerns over inflation and wavering institutional or retail confidence levels; • the availability of cash for investment by the customers of our EAM’s; • consolidation in our member base and within our industry; • changes in government monetary policy and foreign currency exchange rates; and • legislative and regulatory changes. The financial services industry and particularly the securities transactions business are dynamic and uncertain environments, and we expect exchange consolidation, member consolidation and competition to persist in the future. This environment has led to business failures and has encouraged the introduction of alternative trading venues with varying market structures and new business plans. In addition, the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which may change dramatically in ways that affect industry market structure. If we are unable to adjust to the dynamism that characterizes our industry—including structural changes within our markets, technological and financial innovation and other competitive factors—our business will suffer and competitors will take advantage of opportunities to our detriment. Seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may negatively affect our business. Our business may experience seasonal fluctuations. As a result, our operating results for a particular portion of any year may not be indicative of the results that we expect for the full year. Our operating results may also fluctuate quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including the factors discussed above under “—Market fluctuations, industry dynamics and economic and political factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer. We must keep up with emerging technological changes in order to compete effectively in our rapidly evolving industry. The financial services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in use and exchange members’ requirements and preferences, frequent product and service introductions embodying new technologies 36 Table of Contents and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing proprietary trading platform, technology and systems obsolete. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and features of our proprietary trading platform, software, systems and technologies. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • develop and license leading technologies useful in our business; • enhance our existing trading platform and services; • develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective exchange members; • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; and • continue to attract and retain highly skilled technology staff to maintain and develop our existing technology and to adapt to and manage emerging technologies. The development of proprietary electronic trading technology entails significant technical, financial and business risks. Further, the adoption of new Internet, networking, telecommunications technologies or market practices may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. In such cases, we cannot assure you that we would succeed in making such improvements to our technology infrastructure in a timely manner or at all. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary trading platform, technologies and systems to the requirements of our exchange members or emerging industry standards. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or the requirements of our exchange members. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis and to adapt to technological advancements and changing standards, we may be unable to compete effectively, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and we face restrictions with respect to the way we conduct certain of our operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry. Our business is subject to increasingly extensive governmental and other regulation and may be subjected to increasing regulatory scrutiny. The SEC has broad powers to audit, investigate and enforce compliance and punish noncompliance with its rules and regulations and industry standards of practice. We cannot assure you that we or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these rules and regulations and will not be subject to claims or actions by the SEC. The SEC extensively regulates the U.S. securities industry, including our operations. We are required to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC. In addition, as we seek to expand our product base, we could become subject to additional regulators. As a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as a national securities exchange. We are an SRO. Pursuant to the Exchange Act, an SRO is responsible for regulating its exchange members through the adoption and enforcement of rules governing the business conduct of its exchange members. As an SRO, we have our own rules regarding listing, membership and trading that are distinct and separate from those rules applicable generally to broker-dealers as administered by the SEC, NASD, and other SROs. As an SRO, we must submit proposed changes of our rules to the SEC. The SEC will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the SEC may approve or disapprove the proposal as it deems appropriate. We can give no assurances that the SEC will approve any changes to our rules that we may propose. Also, we may incur 37 Table of Contents significant financial costs and expend considerable human resources in connection with our surveillance and enforcement obligations, particularly to the extent we bear responsibility for prosecuting cases or proceeding against our exchange members. Due to our status as an SRO, we have a statutory duty to allocate necessary resources to these functions, and this may limit our ability to dedicate funds and human resources in other areas. In recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets, have been subject to significant regulatory changes. Regulatory changes are generally made in response to innovations in markets and technology or to address regulators’ specific concerns, such as ensuring best execution for investors. Moreover, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing political and public scrutiny in the past few years in response to a number of developments and inquiries. Our exchange is both an SRO and a for-profit business, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. Pursuant to the Exchange Act, we are obligated, as an SRO, to regulate and monitor our exchange members to ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our exchange. The SEC staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of “for-profit” exchanges performing the regulatory functions of SROs and has specifically required the segregation of revenues received from regulatory fees and penalties from other revenues and prohibited payment of dividends from regulatory fines, fees or penalties that exchanges collect from SRO exchange members. In addition to the risk of overly aggressive regulation, potential conflicts of interest could also result in overly lenient regulation. In either case, any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our exchange members or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt SEC scrutiny and adversely affect our business. We may experience certain competitive disadvantages if we do not receive SEC approval for new business initiatives in a timely manner. From time to time, we seek to engage in new business activities, some of which may require changes to our governing rules. Any such changes to our governing rules will require the prior approval of the SEC. See “Business—Regulation” for additional discussion regarding changes to our governing rules. To the extent we believe that a new business initiative is necessary to compete with other exchanges, but are unable to obtain SEC approval for related rule changes in a timely manner, we may be subject to certain competitive disadvantages. Any failure by us to satisfy our obligations as an SRO could subject us to significant legal and regulatory costs. Generally, the SEC has broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit us from engaging in some of our businesses or suspend or revoke our designation as a registered securities exchange or the registration of any of our officers or employees who violate applicable laws or regulations. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, audit and risk management personnel. We cannot assure you that these systems and procedures are fully effective. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extensive examination and surveillance activity. In the case of actual or alleged non-compliance with regulations, we could be subject to investigations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties or civil lawsuits for damages, which can be substantial. Any such investigation or proceeding, whether successful or unsuccessful, would result in substantial costs and diversions of resources and might also harm our business reputation, any of which could negatively affect our business. There are significant risks and uncertainties associated with the ISE Stock Exchange. In 2006, we entered the equities market through the launch of ISE Stock Exchange in partnership with key strategic investors. ISE Stock Exchange, which operates as a facility of ISE and which ISE manages, introduced 38 Table of Contents its first product, MPM, in the third quarter of 2006. MPM was followed by an integrated displayed market offering in December of 2006. There are significant risks and uncertainties associated with this new business: • ISE Stock Exchange may not be accepted by the market as a reliable and effective trading platform or be able to provide services at a price that is profitable. If ISE Stock Exchange is not commercially successful, we may be required to fund or provide additional funding or curtail or modify our business strategy, for which we may incur additional costs and expenses. • Reg NMS and changes thereto, may adversely affect our displayed market offering. Reg NMS, adopted on April 6, 2005, governs certain aspects of trading on securities market centers. Its provisions are scheduled to become effective at various points throughout 2006 and 2007. One of the principal features of Reg NMS is the modernization of the “trade through” rule. Among other things, Reg NMS requires market centers to establish and maintain procedures to prevent “trade throughs,” or the execution of an order at a price inferior to the best bid or offer displayed by another market center at the time of execution. Reg NMS will protect and apply only to quotes available for immediate execution. We believe that the “trade through” rule implemented by Reg NMS may increase competition among markets, including ISE Stock Exchange. We believe that Reg NMS will not have a significant impact on our MPM, but may affect our displayed market offering. For example, Reg NMS, as currently formulated, will impose a cap of $0.003 per share on the access fees charged by market centers to exchange members (or customers) and non-exchange members based on executions against the best bid or best offer displayed through the consolidated quote system. This system continuously provides the best bid quote and best offer quote in listed equity securities to the public. As a result, the transaction fees that ISE Stock Exchange may charge for executions against its best bid and offer on the displayed market offering will be capped. This cap could decrease the amount of transaction fees that ISE Stock Exchange earns and prevent it from increasing its revenues by charging higher prices. In addition, we have begun to develop business strategies in consideration of the current form Reg NMS rules. Any delay in the implementation of Reg NMS, beyond what is currently contemplated, as well as any amendment to Reg NMS, may adversely affect our business strategies as they relate to the use of the displayed market offering. As a financial services provider, we are subject to significant litigation risk and potential securities law liability. Many aspects of our business involve substantial liability risks. These risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over terms of a trade, the claim that a system failure or delay caused monetary losses to a member or its customer, that we entered into an unauthorized transaction or that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a transaction. Dissatisfied customers frequently make claims against their service providers regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud. While our trading rules limit our liability to our exchange members for some of our market-related activities, we could be exposed to substantial liability under federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC. We could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. In addition, an adverse resolution of any future lawsuit or claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected. We have methods to identify, monitor and manage our risks; however, these methods may not be fully effective. Some of our risk management methods may depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. If our methods are not fully effective or we are not always successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage. 39 Table of Contents Employee misconduct or errors could negatively affect our business. Employee misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of customers or improper use of confidential information. Similarly, employee errors in recording or executing transactions for customers can cause us to enter into transactions that customers may disavow and refuse to settle. In addition, we may provide customers with incorrect or incomplete descriptions of how to use our services, which may cause customers to disavow and refuse to settle transactions. These transactions expose us to risk of loss, which can be material, until we detect the errors in questions and unwind or reverse the transaction. As with any unsettled transaction, adverse movements in the prices of securities involved in these transactions before we unwind or reverse them can increase this risk. Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 