D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business A slowdown in the PRC economy has had, and may continue to have, a material and adverse impact on our customers, demand for our services and our business. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has caused on a global basis, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, and lower consumer net worth. As a result, the Chinese economy has experienced a slower growth rate, which is compounded by other factors such as the appreciation of the Renminbi against other world currencies, which adversely affected China’s exports, and tightened macroeconomic measures and monetary policies adopted by the Chinese government prior to 2008 aimed at preventing the overheating of the Chinese economy and controlling inflation. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and a significant majority of our revenues are generated from providing recruitment advertising services for PRC businesses or divisions of foreign firms operating in China. In an environment of slower economic growth, employers may take actions such as hiring fewer permanent employees, engaging in hiring freezes, reducing the number of employees and curtailing spending on print advertising, online recruitment services, executive search services and other human resource related services. As a result, demand for our recruitment related services in particular has been reduced, which has led to a decline in sales for our print advertising and executive search businesses. If the global economic and financial market crisis or the slowdown in China’s economic growth continues, we may experience a further reduction in demand and sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Because we face significant competition, including intense competition in several of our markets, we may lose market share and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition in our print advertising and online recruitment services businesses as well as in our executive search and other human resource related businesses. Our city-specific recruitment advertising publication, 51job Weekly, currently faces competition within all of our markets. Competitors of 51job Weekly are primarily comprised of local newspaper publishers and specialized recruitment advertising publications. 51job Weekly also faces competition from online job search websites and other online businesses seeking to expand into print recruitment advertising. 3 Table of Contents Our online recruitment services, conducted through www.51job.com, face intense competition from other dedicated job search websites such as ChinaHR.com, Cjol.com and Zhaopin.com, as well as from local job search websites. For example, according to public reports, ChinaHR.com and Zhaopin.com have significantly increased their sales and marketing activities in recent years. In addition, many executive search firms and other competitors currently engaged in print advertising or organizing job fairs have developed or acquired online capabilities. Our executive search and other human resource related businesses face significant competition from a variety of Chinese and foreign firms in all of our markets, including certain firms that compete with us in the market for print and online recruitment advertising. In addition, some of the competitors we encounter in our business process outsourcing business are affiliated with local government agencies and have licenses to provide a wider range of services than we do. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have long operating histories, have international strategic partners, have local government sponsorship, may have greater financial, management, technological development, sales, marketing and other resources than we do, and may be able to adopt our business model. As a result of competition, we may experience reduced margins, loss of market share or less use of our services by job seekers and employers. We cannot assure you that existing or future competitors will not develop or offer services and products which provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over our services. If we are unable to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a result of these or other factors, our market share and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. New competitors face low entry barriers to our industries, and successful entry by new competitors may cause us to lose market share and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In the future, we may face competition from new entrants in the recruitment advertising industry and other human resource industries in which we operate. We may face greater competition from Internet portals, newspapers, dedicated recruitment advertising websites and publications, and other human resource services providers who may enter the market for any or all of our services. Our businesses are characterized by relatively low start-up and fixed costs, modest capital requirements, short start-up lead times and an absence of significant proprietary technology that would prevent or significantly inhibit new competitors. As a result, potential market entrants, both in China and from abroad, face relatively low barriers to entry to all of our businesses and in all of our markets. In addition, we believe that there are relatively low existing penetration rates in our markets, and that competitors could acquire significant numbers of customers and establish significant market share within a relatively short period of time. Furthermore, the newspaper and print media industry in China is highly regulated at present which may have the effect of limiting competition and keeping prices, including print advertising prices, at higher levels. Any deregulation of the print media industry may result in increased competition and a material decrease in advertising rates, including the prices we charge for our print advertising services. Increased competition could result in a loss of market share and revenues, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to achieve or maintain economies of scale with respect to our recruitment advertising businesses, our results of operations from these businesses may be materially and adversely affected. We incur fixed costs such as printing, distribution, direct marketing, advertising, management, staff, office, infrastructure and utilities in each of our geographic markets in connection with operating our print advertising business. We also incur fixed costs relating to website connectivity, maintenance, design and operation in our online business. Our ability to achieve desired operating margins in our recruitment advertising businesses depends largely on our success in generating a sufficient amount of revenues from print and online recruitment advertisements to offset the associated fixed costs. In addition, to build and maintain employer and job seeker acceptance of 51job Weekly and www.51job.com as attractive media for posting and finding jobs, we need to reach and maintain a critical mass of recruitment advertisements. In some markets, we believe that 51job Weekly has not achieved the necessary economies of scale primarily due to a decrease in market demand for print advertisement services in recent years as well as competition from rival print advertising publications. We may be unable to achieve and maintain sufficient economies of scale in any or all of our geographic markets in connection with our recruitment advertising businesses. Any failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our results of operations from these businesses. 4 Table of Contents If the use of advertising to conduct recruitment does not achieve broader acceptance in China, we may be unable to expand our recruitment advertising businesses. The use of advertising services to recruit employees is relatively new in China. Due to the influence and regulation by the national and local governments, large job fairs and personal referrals continue to be popular recruitment channels for the private sector in China. We believe that the use of advertising by employers and job seekers remains relatively low. As a result, we face considerable challenges in promoting greater use of advertising, which involves, among other things, significant changes in the way that employers disseminate information about jobs, the way that prospective employees search and apply for jobs, and the way in which hiring decisions are made. We cannot assure you that recruitment advertising will achieve broader acceptance in China. Any significant failure of advertising to gain acceptance among employers and job seekers may substantially limit our ability to expand our recruitment advertising businesses. If the Internet, and online advertising in particular, does not achieve broad acceptance in China as a medium for recruitment, our online recruitment services business may be adversely affected. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from online recruitment services, which are targeted toward employers and job seekers who use the Internet. As part of our online recruitment services, we offer general online advertising on our website, which is an important element in our ability to sell online recruitment advertisements to employers and which generates a material portion of our revenues. China has only recently begun to develop the Internet as a commercial medium and has a relatively low Internet penetration rate compared to most developed countries. Our future results of operations from online recruitment services will depend substantially upon an increase in Internet penetration and an increase in acceptance and use of the Internet for the distribution of services and for the facilitation of commerce in China. In addition, as Internet penetration rates vary widely across the different cities and regions of China, the level of acceptance of online recruitment services may be low in certain geographies for an extended period of time, which may negatively impact our operations in those markets. Moreover, unless they are resolved, telecommunication capacity constraints may impede further development of the Internet to the extent that users experience delays, transmission errors and other difficulties. Any negative perceptions as to the effectiveness of online recruitment services, or online advertising generally, or any significant failure of the Internet to gain acceptance as a medium for recruitment may adversely affect our online recruitment services business and our ability to further integrate our online and print recruitment advertising businesses. The market for other human resource related services, including business process outsourcing, remains in the development stage in China and we may be unable to expand such existing services or successfully develop new services in this area. We believe the market for other human resource related services, including business process outsourcing, is at an early stage of development in China. Many employers are unfamiliar with these services and may not accept the value proposition of these service offerings. Processing, tracking, collecting and remitting funds to the applicable regulatory agencies, employees and other third parties are complex operations, and many employers may not trust us with employee data or to make representations and cash payments on their behalf. As such, companies may not be willing to use our services for significant administrative functions and may instead choose to continue to perform such operations in-house. If we are unable to establish a nationwide capability, effectively monitor ongoing changes in PRC laws and regulations, acquire, develop and use up-to-date business and management technology and software, including advanced computer and technology systems that could require significant capital expenditures, and maintain the integrity and security of our systems and process flow, we may be unable to expand our business process outsourcing operations or gain wider customer acceptance for these services. In addition, we rely on a number of third party service providers, including couriers, agents and banks. Failure by these providers, for any reason, to deliver their services in a timely and accurate manner could result in significant disruptions to our business process outsourcing operations, impact our client relationships, harm our brand and result in significant penalties or liabilities to us. In addition, as part of our strategy to be a “one-stop” human resource services provider, we may decide to develop new services in the area of other human resource related services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to deliver new products or services on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. If any of our efforts to develop or operate new human resource related services are unsuccessful, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents We are dependent on local newspaper contractors in each of our geographic markets to publish and distribute 51job Weekly. In the PRC, entities engaged in publishing activities are required by the government to have a publishing license. We do not have any publishing licenses. We are, and will continue to be, dependent on contractual arrangements with local newspapers in each of our geographic markets in order to publish and distribute 51job Weekly. Our arrangements with our local newspaper contractors require them to print, publish and distribute 51job Weekly as an insert in their newspaper, and in some cases to contribute marketing support. The successful execution of our print advertising business model is highly dependent on establishing and maintaining relationships with newspapers in all of our existing markets as well as any new markets in which we intend to offer print advertising services. The term of our agreements with local newspaper contractors is generally two years, and seven of these agreements will expire between the date of this annual report and December 31, 2009. In addition, certain of these agreements are subject to early termination by either party on various grounds. We cannot assure you that our local newspaper contractors will conduct their activities in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations governing the publishing, distribution and sale of newspapers. In addition, we cannot assure you that: • our local newspaper contractors will fulfill their obligations under our agreements; • the agreements will be renewed on terms acceptable to us or at all; • our current contractors will not, upon termination of our agreements, seek to compete directly against us or establish relationships with one or more of our competitors; or • in the event that we wish to do so or it is necessary to do so, we will be able to locate and enter into an agreement with a suitable alternative local newspaper on a timely basis or at all. In addition, we may experience lower levels of readership and circulation if we lose the marketing support of a local newspaper contractor or change the newspaper contractor in one of our markets. Any adverse developments involving our local newspaper contractors could significantly disrupt or impair the publication, promotion and distribution of 51job Weekly, which in turn could damage our 51job Weekly brand name and materially and adversely affect our recruitment advertising business and our results of operations. We are dependent on our Internet service providers, and we are vulnerable to failures of the Internet, fixed line telecommunications networks in China and our technology platform. Our online businesses are heavily dependent on the performance and reliability of China’s Internet infrastructure, the continual accessibility of bandwidth and servers to our service providers’ networks, and the continuing performance, reliability and availability of our technology platform. We rely on China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom, and China United Network Communications Group Company Limited, or China Unicom, to provide us with bandwidth and server custody service for our services. We are unlikely to have any access to alternative networks or services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure or the fixed telecommunications networks of China Telecom or China Unicom, or if China Telecom or China Unicom otherwise fail to provide such services. In addition, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by China Telecom or China Unicom. If China Telecom or China Unicom fails to provide these services, we would be required to seek other providers, and there is no assurance that we will be able to find alternative providers willing or able to provide high quality services and there is no assurance that such providers will not charge us higher prices for their services. If the prices that we are required to pay for Internet services rise significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to protect or promote our brand names and reputation, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to generate a high volume of recruitment advertisements, maintain our relationships with local newspaper contractors, successfully promote and develop the perception of www.51job.com as a “destination site,” undertake effective marketing and promotional activities, and generally provide high quality services, we may not be successful in protecting or promoting our brand names and reputation in a cost-effective manner or at all. We may dedicate significantly greater resources in the future to advertising, marketing and other promotional efforts aimed at building awareness of our brands. According to public reports, our competitors, particularly those that provide online recruitment services, have significantly increased their expenditures on sales and marketing activities in recent years. Any significant damage to our reputation, the perceived quality or awareness of our brand names or services, or any significant failure on our part to promote and protect our brand names and reputation could make it more difficult for us to successfully attract job seekers, compete for customers or retain qualified personnel, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. 6 Table of Contents If we are unable to prevent others from using our intellectual property, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our intellectual property has been, and will continue to be, subject to various forms of theft and misappropriation. Competitors copy and distribute content from our www.51job.com website, from 51job Weekly and from the training materials that we use, and utilize misleadingly similar Internet domain names and URLs in an effort to divert Internet traffic away from our website. We are also susceptible to others copying our business model and methods. The legal protection of trademarks, trade names, copyrighted material, domain names, trade secrets, know-how and other forms of intellectual property in the PRC is significantly more limited than in the United States and many other countries and may afford us little or no effective protection. Preventing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, time consuming and expensive, and may divert significant management and staff resources from our business operations, and yield limited and uncertain results. Misappropriation of our content, trademarks and other intellectual property could divert significant business to our competitors, damage our brand name and reputation, and require us to initiate litigation that could be expensive and require us to divert management resources from the operation of our businesses. We rely heavily on our senior management team and key personnel, and the loss of any of their services could severely disrupt our business. Our future success is highly dependent on the ongoing efforts of the members of our senior management and key personnel, in particular on Rick Yan, our chief executive officer. We rely heavily on his management skills, his expertise in consumer products, marketing and technology, and his relationships with many of our clients and local contractors. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior management or key personnel, other than Mr. Yan and Kathleen Chien, our chief operating officer. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key personnel, Mr. Yan in particular, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for senior management and key personnel is intense, and the pool of suitable candidates is very limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or key personnel, or attract and retain senior executives or key personnel in the future. In addition, if Mr. Yan, any other members of our senior management or any of our other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may not be able to replace them easily and we may lose customers, business partners, key professionals and staff members. Each of our senior executives and key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. In the event of a dispute between any of our senior executives or key personnel and us, we cannot assure you as to the extent, if any, that these provisions may be enforceable in the PRC due to uncertainties involving the PRC legal system. Our business may suffer if we do not successfully manage our current and potential future growth. We have grown significantly since we commenced operations in 1998 and we intend to continue to expand in size and increase the number of services we provide. Our anticipated future growth will place significant demands on our management and operations. Our success in managing this growth will depend to a significant degree on the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to operate effectively both independently and as a group, and on our ability to improve and develop our financial and management information systems, controls and procedures. In addition, we will have to successfully adapt our existing systems and introduce new systems, expand, train and manage our workforce, and improve and expand our sales and marketing capabilities. If we are unable to properly manage our services in new or existing markets or the quality of our services deteriorates due to mismanagement, we could significantly damage our brand name and reputation, which would adversely affect our ability to expand our customer base. If we are unable to successfully detect and prevent criminal actions or fraud perpetrated on us, we may be subject to liability and financial loss. The management of our business involves the collection of cash payments by our employees and agents from our customers, which constitute a significant portion of our total revenues. As a result, we are exposed to theft, embezzlement and other criminal and fraudulent activity by our employees, our agents and third parties. For example, we identified some irregularities and non-compliance to contract terms by a third party in connection with our human resource outsourcing operations in Beijing, which resulted in a loss provision of RMB9.7 million in 2007. If we are unable to successfully detect and prevent criminal or fraudulent activity, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Our operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We began operations in 1998 and incurred net losses prior to 2002. We cannot assure you that we will maintain our profitability or that we will not incur net losses in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase as we expand. Any significant failure to realize anticipated revenue growth could result in significant operating losses. We may encounter risks and difficulties including our potential failure to: • implement our business model and strategy and adapt and modify them as needed; • increase awareness of our brands, protect our reputation and develop customer loyalty; • anticipate with any degree of certainty the behavioral and operational changes of our customers that have a significant impact on our business from time to time as they respond to evolving social, economic and political changes in China; • manage our expanding operations and service offerings, including the integration of any future acquisitions; • maintain adequate control of our expenses; • adequately and efficiently operate, maintain, upgrade and develop our website and the other systems and equipment we utilize in providing our services; • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; • maintain our current, and develop new, contractual arrangements with local newspapers and other important operational relationships; and • anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the print, online and other markets in which we operate as well as the impact of any changes in government regulation, mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, technological developments and other significant competitive and market dynamics. If we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on our print advertising business to provide a large portion of our revenues and any adverse development in this business could materially and adversely affect our overall results of operations. We generate a large portion of our revenues from our print advertising business, which accounted for 55.8% of our revenues in 2006, 51.0% of our revenues in 2007 and 41.8% of our revenues in 2008. Growth in our print advertising business has slowed in 2008 as compared to 2007 due to a decline in market demand resulting from the recent global economic and financial market crisis and the slower economic growth in China. In addition, we believe that the greater acceptance and adoption of online advertisement may cause print media such as 51job Weekly to become less desirable as a form of advertising. We have observed that in some of our markets where Internet penetration rates are relatively high, a significant percentage of new, first-time customers may choose an online service as their initial recruitment advertising purchase with us. In addition, we believe that the percentage of customers allocating a greater portion of their total recruitment advertising budgets from print to online is increasing. To the extent this continues to occur and if we are not able to generate sufficient revenues from our online recruitment services or other businesses to offset any loss of revenues from our print advertisement business, our overall results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our print advertising business is subject to weekly fluctuations which hamper our ability to predict when revenue will ultimately be recognized, if at all. Due to the transactional nature of print advertising, we are unable to predict future revenue streams with any high degree of certainty. A large portion of our revenues is derived from print advertising and we do not recognize revenue until an advertisement is printed in 51job Weekly. Orders for print advertisements are generally placed week-to-week and advertisers may cancel or postpone their print advertisements within days of publication. Delays or cancellations by advertisers hamper our ability to predict when revenue will ultimately be recognized, if at all. Such uncertainty makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast revenues for a particular quarter. Therefore, actual results may differ significantly from our targets or estimated quarterly results, which could cause the price of our ADSs to fall. 8 Table of Contents Due to seasonal variations in demand for human resource services, we experience significant fluctuations in our revenue streams which affect our ability to predict our quarterly results and which may also cause quarterly results to vary from period to period. Significant fluctuations in our revenue streams, particularly during the seasonal peak hiring periods around the Chinese New Year holidays and the beginning of May and October, affect our ability to predict quarterly results. During these peak periods, demand for recruitment advertising and other human resource related services may or may not rise significantly depending on the needs of employers as well as their perceptions of the job market. Beginning in 2008, the Chinese government has instituted changes to the schedule of public holidays by eliminating the week-long holiday at the beginning of May and recognizing new observances, which may result in new seasonality patterns for our business. In addition, the dates of the Chinese New Year holidays and the new observances are based on the lunar calendar, which varies from year to year and affects our quarterly results and the comparability of financial results to corresponding periods in prior years. We have also experienced a trend of lower fourth quarter revenues as compared to revenues from the immediately preceding third quarter in recent years. As a result of these factors, our revenues may vary from quarter to quarter and quarterly results may not be comparable to the corresponding periods of prior years. Such uncertainty makes it difficult for us to predict revenues for a particular quarter. Therefore, actual results may differ significantly from our targets or estimated quarterly results, which could cause the price of our ADSs to fall. We may not be able to successfully execute future acquisitions or efficiently manage any acquired business. We may decide to expand, in part, by acquiring certain complementary or new businesses in the future. The success of any material acquisition will depend upon several factors, including: • our ability to identify and acquire businesses on a cost-effective basis; • our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively; and • our ability to retain and motivate key personnel and to retain the clients of acquired firms. Any such acquisition may require a significant commitment of management time, capital investment and other resources. There is a possibility that we will not be successful in identifying and negotiating acquisitions on terms favorable to us. In addition, we cannot be certain that any acquisition, if completed, will be successfully integrated into our existing operations. If we are unable to effectively integrate an acquired business or are required to incur restructuring and other charges to complete an acquisition, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we use our equity securities as consideration for acquisitions, we may dilute the value of your common shares or ADSs. We have not engaged in any material acquisitions in our history. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our executive search, training and business process outsourcing businesses may be materially and adversely affected. The success of our executive search, training and business process outsourcing services depends heavily on our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. Our ability to provide high quality executive search services depends on a dedicated team of consultants with expertise and relationships in the geographic markets and industries in which our clients seek candidates. Similarly, the success of our training business depends on personnel with the necessary skills to conduct and support our training seminars and other activities and services in this business. Our business of performing traditional human resource department functions such as payroll, benefits and compliance management and related services for customers on an outsourced basis depends on having personnel with expertise in local and national PRC government employment regulations, payroll management and other human resource department functions. If we are unable to attract and retain critical skilled personnel, our executive search, training and business process outsourcing businesses may be materially and adversely affected. The implementation of the PRC Labor Contract Law may significantly increase the number of labor disputes, which may result in higher operating costs for our business process outsourcing business. On June 29, 2007, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law establishes restrictions and increases costs for employers, including specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, temporary employment, probation, consultation with the labor union and employee assembly, employment without a contract, dismissal of employees, compensation upon termination and overtime work, and collective bargaining. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for an employer are entitled to a paid 9 Table of Contents vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on their length of service. Employees who waive such vacation time at the request of employers shall be compensated for three times their regular salaries for each waived vacation day. The Labor Contract Law only recently went into effect and there are uncertainties whether its future implementation may be consistent with its current interpretation. As a result, the implementation of the Labor Contract Law may impact the recruitment behavior and human resource budgets of companies in China. In addition, we have observed an increase in the number of labor disputes between employers and workers relating to the interpretation and application of the Labor Contract Law. Through our business processing outsourcing business, we provide professional services to manage human resource administrative functions for employers on an outsourced basis. The resolution of such labor disputes may require significant costs and resources, including the time our personnel spend dealing with increased human resource administration and legal issues for which we may not be compensated. If we incur higher operating costs for our business process outsourcing business, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we choose to develop or introduce new products and services outside of the human resource services industry in China, these efforts may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In August 2007, we entered into an agreement with Recruit Co., Ltd., or Recruit, a privately held human resource and information services company in Japan, to form a new company under Area Link Co., Ltd., or Area Link, which is a holding company affiliated with Recruit, to provide coupon advertising services in China. Under the agreement, we have agreed to provide up to RMB32.8 million in financing to Area Link for the coupon company and have the ability to acquire up to 40% of Area Link’s share capital. The amount of financing we have provided to Area Link for the coupon company totaled RMB15.9 million (US$2.3 million) as of December 31, 2008. Because we lack experience and expertise in operating coupon advertising services, we rely on Recruit to manage this business and we cannot assure you that it will be successful. We cannot assure you that we will be able to deliver other new products or services outside of the human resource services industry on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. If any of our efforts to begin or operate a business outside of the human resource services industry are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to liability for placing advertisements with content that is deemed inappropriate. PRC laws and regulations prohibit advertising companies from producing, distributing or publishing any advertisement that contains any content that violates laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of the PRC, involves designs of the national flag, national emblem or national anthem or the music of the national anthem of the PRC, is reactionary, obscene, superstitious or absurd, is fraudulent, or disparages similar products. If we are deemed to be in violation of such regulations, we may be subject to penalties including confiscation of the illegal revenues, levying of fines and suspension or revocation of our business license or advertising license, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. We are subject to potential legal liability from both employers and job seekers with respect to our executive search businesses and other human resource related services. We are exposed to potential claims associated with the recruitment process, including claims by clients seeking to hold us liable for recommending a candidate who subsequently proves to be unsuitable for the position filled, claims by current or previous employers of our candidates alleging interference with employment contracts, claims by candidates against us alleging our failure to maintain the confidentiality of their employment search or alleging discrimination or other violations of employment law or other laws or regulations by our clients, and claims by either employers or candidates alleging the failure of our business process outsourcing services to comply with laws or regulations relating to employment, employee’s insurance or benefits, individual income taxes or other matters. Any such claims, regardless of merit, may force us to participate in time-consuming, costly litigation or investigation, divert significant management and staff attention, and damage our reputation and brand names. We do not maintain insurance coverage for liabilities arising from claims by employers, candidates or third parties. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if successful, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Third parties may bring claims against us alleging patent, trademark or copyright infringement, or misappropriation of their creative ideas or formats, or other infringement of their proprietary intellectual property rights. Any such claims, regardless of merit, may involve us in time-consuming, costly litigation or investigation, divert significant management and staff attention, require us to enter into expensive royalty or licensing arrangements, prevent us from using important technologies, business methods, content or other intellectual property, result in monetary liability, or otherwise disrupt our operations. We expect that the likelihood of such claims may increase, particularly in our online businesses, as the number of competitors in our markets grows and as related patents and trademarks are registered or copyrights are obtained by such competitors. 10 Table of Contents We rely heavily on our information systems, and if our access to technology supporting our information systems is impaired or interrupted, or if we fail to further develop our technology, our operations may be seriously disrupted. Our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information, including our client and candidate databases, is an important part of our operations and a critical component of our success. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must further develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development, either internally or through independent consultants, of new proprietary software. Our inability to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively, or any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities, for any reason, could materially disrupt our operations. If we are not able to respond successfully to technological or industry developments, our business may be materially and adversely affected. The market for online products and services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent launches of new products and services, the introduction of new business models, changes in customer needs and behavior, and evolving industry standards. These developments may make our existing online recruitment services obsolete or less competitive. In order to respond to such developments, we may be required to undertake substantial efforts and incur significant costs. In the event that we do not successfully respond to such developments in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Computer viruses and “hacking” may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce use of our services and damage our reputation and brand names. Computer viruses and hacking may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions, loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Hacking and computer viruses could result in significant damage to our hardware and software systems and databases, disruptions to our business activities, including to our e-mail and other communications systems, breaches of security and the inadvertent disclosure of confidential or sensitive information, interruptions in access to our website through the use of “denial of service” or similar attacks, and other material adverse effects on our operations. We may incur significant costs to protect our systems and equipment against the threat of, and to repair any damage caused by, computer viruses and hacking. Moreover, if a computer virus or hacking affects our systems and is highly publicized, our reputation and brand names could be materially damaged and usage of our services may decrease. Our business could be adversely affected if our software contains bugs. Our online systems, including the www.51job.com website, and our other applications, products and systems could contain undetected errors or “bugs” that could adversely affect their performance. Additionally, we regularly update and enhance our website and our other online systems and introduce new versions of our products and applications. The occurrence of errors in any of these may cause us to lose market share, harm our reputation and brand names, and materially and adversely affect our business. We are controlled by a small number of our existing shareholders, whose interests may differ from other shareholders, and our board of directors has the power to discourage a change of control. As of March 31, 2009, the following shareholders beneficially owned approximately 37.7 million common shares: • Recruit, which beneficially owned approximately 22.3 million common shares, or 39.8% of our outstanding common shares, and which is affiliated with Hiroyuki Honda, one of our directors; and • Rick Yan, our chief executive officer and a director, who beneficially owned approximately 15.4 million, or 27.4% of our outstanding common shares. 11 Table of Contents These shareholders, together with our other executive officers and directors, beneficially owned approximately 40.4 million common shares. Accordingly, Recruit or Mr. Yan individually could have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. In cases where their interests are aligned and they vote together, these shareholders will also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. Without the consent of some or all of these shareholders, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. In addition, these parties could violate their non-competition or employment agreements with us or otherwise violate their fiduciary duties by diverting business opportunities from us to themselves or others. The interests of our largest shareholders may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. In April 2006, entities affiliated with DCM, a venture capital firm affiliated with one of our directors, Rick Yan, Michael Lei Feng and Norman Lui, and Kathleen Chien, who is our chief operating officer, entered into a share purchase agreement with Recruit. Michael Lei Feng and Norman Lui are co-founders and former executive officers of our company. Under the terms and conditions of the share purchase agreement, Recruit completed a purchase of 8,452,918 common shares, which represented approximately 15% of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2005, from these shareholders in April 2006. The share purchase agreement also provides for an option that would allow Recruit to purchase up to an additional 14,862,313 common shares from these shareholders over a three-year period beginning April 2006. In addition, under the share purchase agreement, each of these selling shareholders has agreed that it will use its commercially reasonable best efforts in cooperating with Recruit to have a representative of Recruit nominated to stand for election to our board of directors and that it will vote all of its shares in favor of the election of such nominee to our board of directors at any annual or extraordinary general meetings of our members at which such nominee may stand for election for the duration of the agreement. Mr. Hiroyuki Honda, an executive vice president and director of Recruit, was elected to our board of directors in July 2006. In addition, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue common and preferred shares of up to 20% by par value of all issued shares and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our common shares. These provisions could have the effect of depriving you of an opportunity to sell your ADSs at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. There are significant uncertainties under the new tax law in China. In addition, dividends we receive from our subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress promulgated a new tax law named “Enterprise Income Tax Law of the PRC,” or the EIT Law, which applies a uniform 25% enterprise income tax, or EIT, rate to both foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises effective January 1, 2008. For enterprises that were established before the EIT Law was promulgated and were entitled to preferential tax rates under former tax laws and regulations, the EIT Law has granted a grace period of up to five years for these enterprises to gradually transition from their preferential tax rates to the standard rate of 25%. As a result, some of our subsidiaries in the special economic zones of Shanghai’s Pudong area and Shenzhen were subject to an EIT rate of 18% in 2008, which are to be gradually increased to 20% in 2009, 22% in 2010, 24% in 2011 and 25% in 2012. However, it remains uncertain how the EIT Law and its implementation rules will be enforced. Therefore, the EIT rates of some of our PRC subsidiaries could change and any increases would adversely and materially affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, under the EIT Law and related regulations, dividends, interests, rent or royalties payable by a foreign-invested enterprise, such as our PRC subsidiaries, to any of its foreign non-resident enterprise investors, and proceeds from the disposition of assets (after deducting the net value of such assets) by such foreign enterprise investor, shall be subject to a 10% withholding tax unless such foreign enterprise investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax. Undistributed profits earned by foreign-invested enterprises prior to January 1, 2008 are exempted from any withholding tax. We are incorporated in the Cayman Islands which does not have such a tax treaty with China. We may be deemed a PRC “resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, which could subject us to PRC taxation on our global income, and which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Under the EIT Law and its implementation rules, enterprises incorporated under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China may be considered PRC “resident enterprises” and therefore subject to an EIT rate of 25% on their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations issued by the State Council relating to the EIT Law, “de facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have material and overall management control over the business, personnel, accounts and properties of an enterprise. We are a Cayman Islands holding company and substantially all of our operational management is currently based in China. The detailed implementation regulations are still in the process of promulgation, and to our knowledge, there is a lack of clear guidance regarding the criteria pursuant to which the PRC tax authorities will determine the tax residency of a company under the EIT Law. If we are considered to be an enterprise established outside China with “de facto management bodies” located in China and thus a “resident enterprise,” we may be subject to the uniform 25% EIT rate as to our global income, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Under the EIT Law, dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gains on the sale of our ADSs or common shares may become subject to PRC taxation. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise” under the EIT Law, our shareholders and ADS holders who are deemed “non-resident enterprises” may be subject to an EIT rate of 10% upon the dividends payable by us or upon any gains realized from the transfer of our common shares or ADSs, if such income is deemed derived from China, provided that (i) such foreign enterprise investor has no establishment or place of business in China, or (ii) it has establishment or place of business in China but its income derived from China has no real connection with such establishment or place of business. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on any gains realized from the transfer of our common shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in common shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Our earnings have been and will continue to be adversely affected by changes in our accounting policies, including those related to the expensing of stock options. In 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” or SFAS No. 123R, which requires that stock-based compensation transactions, such as stock option grants, be accounted for using a fair value based method and recognized as expenses in our consolidated statement of operations. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options grants under SFAS No. 123R. This method is based upon, among other things, the volatility of our ADSs, which has been historically high. Therefore, the adoption of SFAS No. 123R negatively affects our profitability and the trading price of our ADSs. The implementation of SFAS No. 123R could also limit our ability to continue to use stock options as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. Other new accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. The change to existing rules, future changes, if any, or the questioning of current practices may adversely and materially affect our earnings. If we do not appropriately maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our business, results of operations and the market price of our ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The Securities and Exchange Commission, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008. See “Item 15. — Controls and Procedures.” However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and may need to incur additional costs and use additional management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements going forward. We have no business insurance coverage. Other than insurance for some of our properties, we do not maintain any insurance. We do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. 13 Table of Contents We face risks related to health epidemics and other natural disasters. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic or outbreak. China reported a number of cases of SARS in 2003, which resulted in the closure of many businesses by the PRC government to prevent the transmission of SARS. In recent years, there have been reports of occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including a few confirmed human cases and deaths. Restrictions on travel resulting from any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak could adversely affect our ability to market and service new and existing customers throughout China. Our business operations could be disrupted if one of our employees is suspected of having avian flu, SARS or another health epidemic, which would require that a certain number of our employees be quarantined and/or our offices be disinfected. In addition, our results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent that avian flu, SARS or another outbreak harms the Chinese economy in general. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. We are also vulnerable to natural disasters and other calamities. Our servers are currently hosted in Shanghai and Tianjin. We have backup systems, but we cannot assure you that such backup systems will be adequate if there are problems, or that they will adequately protect us from the effects of fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, war, riots, terrorist acts or similar events. Any of the foregoing events may give rise to server interruptions, breakdowns, system failures, technology platform failures and Internet failures, which could cause the loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware as well as adversely affect our ability to provide our services to users. For example, after the Sichuan earthquake in May 2008, we experienced business disruptions and suspended operations of www.51job.com during a three-day national mourning period. We believe that we were not a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for our taxable year ending on December 31, 2008, although there can be no assurance in this regard. However, we believe that we may be a PFIC for our current taxable year or that we may become one in the future, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based on the past composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we believe that we were not a PFIC for our taxable year ending on December 31, 2008, although there can be no assurance in this regard. However, due to the volatility of the market price of our common shares, as represented by our ADSs, under recent market conditions, we believe that we may be a PFIC for our current taxable year or that we may become one in the future. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the determination of whether we are a PFIC is made annually. Accordingly, our PFIC status for the current taxable year cannot be determined with certainty until after the close of the current taxable year. In particular, our PFIC status may be determined in large part based on the market price of our common shares, as represented by our ADSs, which is likely to fluctuate (and may fluctuate considerably given that the global capital markets have been experiencing extreme volatility). Accordingly, fluctuations in the market price of common shares, as represented by our ADSs, may result in our being a PFIC in the current or any future taxable year. In addition, as described below under “Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure,” there exist substantial uncertainties regarding the application, interpretation and enforcement of relevant current and future PRC laws and regulations and their potential effect on our corporate structure and contractual arrangements with certain of our affiliated PRC entities. There can be no assurance that the PRC regulatory authorities will not take a view different from the opinions of our PRC counsel. Further, even if the uncertainties as to PRC laws and regulations did not exist, there are also substantial uncertainties as to the treatment of our corporate structure and ownership of these affiliated PRC entities for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If it is determined that we do not own the stock of the affiliated PRC entities for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would likely be treated as a PFIC for our taxable year ending on December 31, 2008 and any taxable year thereafter. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which you hold our ADSs or common shares, such characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to you if you are a U.S. investor. For example, if we are or become a PFIC, our U.S. investors may become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. federal income tax laws and regulations, and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. Moreover, non-corporate U.S. investors will be not be eligible for reduced rates on taxation on any dividends received from us in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2011, if we are a PFIC in the taxable year in which such dividends are paid or in the preceding taxable year. See “Item 10. — Additional Information — Taxation — Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” 14 Table of Contents Our subsidiaries face limitations on paying dividends or making other distributions to us. We are a holding company and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our holding of the equity interests in, directly and indirectly: • Qian Cheng Wu You Network Information Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or WFOE, a wholly foreign owned enterprise in China; • Qianjin Network Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or Tech JV; • Shanghai Qianjin Advertising Co., Ltd., or AdCo, and its subsidiaries; and • Shanghai Wang Ju Human Resource Consulting Co., Ltd., or Wang Ju. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely entirely on dividends, royalty payments and license fees paid under trademark license agreements and certain other contractual arrangements paid to us by our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in the PRC to finance our operations and to pay dividends to our shareholders. These royalty payments and license fees paid under trademark license agreements and certain other contractual arrangements do not require governmental or other third party approval. However, the payment of dividends in China is subject to certain restrictions and taxes. PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in the PRC are also required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds that are not distributable as cash dividends. In addition, the PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We may also experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. See “Item 4. — Information on the Company — Business Overview — Regulation — Regulation of Foreign Currency Exchange and Dividend Distribution.” If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to effectively finance our operations or pay dividends on our common shares. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC authorities determine that our past ownership structure was inconsistent with the requirements for operating certain of our businesses, we could be subject to sanctions. The PRC government has regulated foreign ownership in entities providing advertising and human resource related services. Prior to March 2004, PRC laws and regulations prohibited foreign persons from owning a controlling interest in advertising entities. This foreign ownership restriction was subsequently relaxed and foreign persons are now permitted to wholly own advertising entities in China. In addition, until November 2003, there were no PRC laws or regulations explicitly prohibiting or limiting foreign ownership in entities providing human resource related services. Foreign ownership in entities providing human resource related services was limited to 49% beginning in November 2003 and this ownership limitation was increased to 70% in August 2006. Prior to our restructuring in May 2004, 51net, our British Virgin Islands subsidiary and a foreign entity, owned 99% of Tech JV, which in turn owned, and continues to own, 80% of AdCo. AdCo owned, and continues to own, 90% of the principal AdCo Subsidiaries. During this period, Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries conducted a portion of our advertising and human resource services businesses. We have been advised by Jun He Law Offices, our PRC counsel, that the foreign ownership percentage of Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries prior to our restructuring was above the maximum foreign ownership permitted for an entity conducting advertising operations. In addition, we have been advised by our PRC counsel that, prior to our restructuring, the foreign ownership percentage of Tech JV was above the maximum foreign ownership permitted for an entity conducting human resource operations. In May 2004, we restructured our operations to comply with then existing PRC laws and regulations governing foreign ownership in entities conducting advertising and human resource related services. In connection with our restructuring, we informed relevant PRC governmental authorities that, historically, our foreign ownership percentage of Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries was not in compliance with limitations on foreign ownership of entities conducting advertising and human resources operations. However, we have not received any waiver from the PRC government with respect to our past non-compliance with foreign ownership limitations. There remains uncertainty regarding whether foreign owned PRC entities, such as AdCo, are required to obtain special governmental approval in order to establish subsidiaries in the PRC or otherwise invest in PRC entities. Following the formation of the AdCo Subsidiaries, in connection with our restructuring we made inquiries with relevant PRC governmental authorities as to whether AdCo was required to obtain such approval before establishing the AdCo Subsidiaries. We have been unable to obtain any governmental ruling or advice on this matter. As a result, it is uncertain whether special governmental approval, which we did not obtain, was necessary for the establishment by AdCo of the AdCo Subsidiaries. The PRC government may determine that our ownership structure is or was inconsistent with or insufficient for the proper operation of our businesses, or that our business licenses or other approvals are or were not properly issued or not sufficient. For a discussion of the limitations on foreign ownership governing our businesses, see “Item 4. — Information on the Company — Business Overview — Regulation — Limitations on Foreign Ownership of Our Businesses.” 15 Table of Contents If we or any of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities were found to be or to have been in violation of PRC laws or regulations governing foreign ownership of advertising or human resource services businesses, the relevant regulatory authorities would likely have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including but not limited to: • levying fines; • revoking business licenses; • restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from our initial public offering and any future offerings to finance our business and operations in China; • requiring us to restructure the ownership structure or operations of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities; and/or • requiring us to discontinue all or a portion of our business. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our agreements with an affiliated entity to provide human resource related services and to act as an Internet content provider, and we rely on agreements with an affiliated entity and its shareholders to receive all of the beneficial interest of this entity. Current PRC laws and regulations limit foreign investment in entities providing human resource related services and in entities operating as Internet content providers. We currently provide technical, consulting and human resource related services in conjunction with our affiliated entity, RAL, which is indirectly wholly owned by David Weimin Jin and Tao Wang, two executive officers of our company. RAL holds a license to provide human resource related services and we rely on RAL to provide human resource related services to our clients under a contractual arrangement between RAL and our majority owned subsidiary Tech JV. Similarly, RAL holds a license to operate as an Internet content provider. While we provide all of our online recruitment services through Tech JV, we rely on RAL to provide certain Internet content provider services and human resources related services to support Tech JV’s online recruitment services through a contractual arrangement with RAL. We have entered into agreements with RAL’s shareholders which enable us to effectively control RAL. Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries recognize substantially all of our revenues. The minority interests in Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries, which are direct or indirect subsidiaries of Tech JV, are held by Qian Cheng, which is indirectly wholly owned by David Weimin Jin and Tao Wang. Through agreements with Qian Cheng and its shareholders, we have the substantial ability to control, bear all the economic risks of, and receive all the economic rewards from, Qian Cheng. As a result, we consolidate all of its interests for U.S. GAAP reporting purposes. As we rely on the agreements with RAL and Qian Cheng to enable us to provide certain critical services to our clients as well as to receive all the economic benefits of Qian Cheng, a significant disruption in these contractual relationships as a result of governmental sanction or otherwise could result in our being required to restructure our operations which could result in a significant expenditure of resources. If we are unable to restructure our operations to provide those services through a different entity, we may experience significant disruptions in our ability to provide online recruitment services or human resource related services to our customers. In addition, if we are unable to consolidate the minority interests in Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries, our results of operations would reflect Qian Cheng’s minority interest in these entities which, if not otherwise consolidated, would result in a significant reduction in our reported net income. For a description of our contractual arrangements with these entities, see “Item 7. — Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions — Contractual Arrangements Among Our Group Entities.” If our affiliated entity RAL is found to be operating in jurisdictions outside of Shanghai without a business license, we could be subject to sanctions and our revenues could be adversely affected. RAL’s existing human resource services license is limited to Shanghai. In 2008, revenues from human resource related services provided to customers outside Shanghai accounted for approximately 3% of our total revenues. It is possible that government authorities in jurisdictions outside Shanghai where certain of RAL’s customers are located may assert that RAL is providing human resource related services in such jurisdictions without a necessary license and is required to obtain a human resource services license in such jurisdictions. As a result, RAL could be required to cease providing human resource services to customers in such locations which could result in a reduction in human resource related revenues. In addition, RAL may be subject to sanctions in the form of forfeiture of profits, fines, or both. 16 Table of Contents Our contractual arrangements with RAL and Qian Cheng may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses. Because the percentage of foreign ownership in human resource and Internet content businesses in China is limited under PRC laws and regulations, we depend substantially on RAL, in which we have no direct ownership interest, and its contractual arrangements with us to provide those services. Similarly, we rely on our contractual arrangements with Qian Cheng, in which we have no direct ownership interest, to realize all of the economic rewards from Qian Cheng’s minority interests in Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries. Our contractual arrangements with RAL, Qian Cheng and their respective shareholders may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing control over their operations. RAL may fail to perform its contractual obligations required for us to operate our business, such as keeping in good standing under its business licenses. Qian Cheng and its shareholders may refuse to make payments or otherwise refuse to perform their contractual obligations necessary for us to realize the economic rewards relating to Qian Cheng’s minority interests in Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries. In addition, the contractual arrangements which provide us with the substantial ability to control these entities may be unenforceable and the shareholders of these entities may refuse to renew these contractual arrangements. In any such event, we will have to rely on the PRC legal system to enforce our rights. In many cases, the laws and regulations governing the enforcement and performance of contractual arrangements are significantly more limited than in the United States and many other countries and may afford us little or no effective protection. If we are unable to enforce our rights, we may be unable to operate our human resource and Internet content businesses through RAL or receive all of the economic rewards from Qian Cheng. As a result, we may be required to restructure our operations which would likely entail a significant expenditure of resources. We cannot assure you that any such restructuring would be effective or would not result in similar or other difficulties. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 7. — Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions — Related Party Transactions — Contractual Arrangements Among Our Group Entities.” If we or any of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities were found to be in violation of PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would likely have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including but not limited to: • levying fines; • revoking business licenses; • restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from our initial public offering and any future offerings to finance our business and operations in China; • requiring us to restructure the ownership structure or operations of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities; and/or • requiring us to discontinue all or a portion of our business. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations and contractual arrangements are uncertain, and if we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and our subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws, and, as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations, including those governing foreign ownership in the human resource services and Internet content industries. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. In addition, the PRC authorities retain broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses, permits and beneficial treatments issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time under contrary findings of higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. We cannot assure you that any such restructuring would be effective or would not result in similar or other difficulties. We may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations. As a result of these substantial uncertainties, we cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. 17 Table of Contents Under equity pledge agreements, the shareholders of our Chinese affiliated entities have pledged their respective equity interests to us. On March 16, 2007, the PRC Property Law was promulgated and took effect on October 1, 2007. According to the PRC Property Law, a pledge of the equity interest of a company in China cannot be legally established until it is duly registered with the relevant administration of industry and commerce. On September 1, 2008, the Measures on Registration of Pledge of Equity Interest with the Administration of Industry and Commerce was promulgated by the PRC State Administration of Industry and Commerce and took effect on October 1, 2008, which contains the procedure for registration of a pledge of the equity interest of a company. The pledges under the equity pledge agreements between WFOE and the shareholders of Qian Cheng, RAL and Run An are yet to be registered with the relevant administration of industry and commerce, and as such, we cannot assure you about the effectiveness of these pledges. We will make efforts to register the pledges when the administration as soon as practically possible. If we or any of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities or any of our contractual arrangements are found to be or to have been in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would likely have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including but not limited to: • levying fines; • revoking business licenses; • restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from our initial public offering and any future offerings to finance our business and operations in China; • requiring us to restructure the ownership structure or operations of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities; and/or • requiring us to discontinue all or a portion our business. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to quantify the likelihood that any sanctions would be imposed or the magnitude of the effect of any such sanctions on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to the People’s Republic of China Our business could be affected by changes in China’s economic, political or social conditions or government policies. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 30 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform, or that if there is a slowdown, such slowdown will not have a negative effect on our business. For example, the Chinese economy experienced high inflation in the second half of 2007 and the first half of 2008. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, the consumer price index increased 7.9% during the six months ended June 30, 2008 as compared to the same period in 2007. To restrain inflation and prevent the economy from overheating, the PRC government instituted a number of tightening macroeconomic measures and monetary policies, including increasing interest rates, raising statutory reserve rates for banks and controlling bank lending to certain industries. However, due in part to the impact of the current global economic and financial market crisis, the growth rate of China’s gross domestic product has decreased from previous levels and slowed to 6.8% and 6.1% in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009, respectively, representing the lowest level of growth since 2002. As a result, the PRC government has begun to loosen macroeconomic measures and monetary policies in recent months and announced an economic stimulus package of RMB4 trillion (US$586 billion) in November 2008. We cannot assure you that the various macroeconomic measures, monetary policies and economic stimulus package adopted by the PRC government to guide economic growth and the allocation of resources will be effective in sustaining the fast growth rate of the Chinese economy. In addition, even if these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, they may impact the hiring behavior of employers and reduce the level of expenditures on human resource services, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For example, the PRC government could determine to limit the extent to which government controlled entities may use private sector businesses such as ours to service their human resource requirements. The PRC government could determine to develop and support government owned or controlled human resource enterprises in direct competition with us. The PRC government could also determine to more closely regulate the advertising, Internet content delivery or human resource industries, which could impose additional regulatory costs and burdens on us. 18 Table of Contents PRC laws and regulations governing operators of Internet websites are unclear and the regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries may become more burdensome, and if we are found to be in violation of PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to sanctions. The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws and regulations, the stated positions of the main governing authority, the PRC Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT (formerly the Ministry of Information Industry), and the possibility of new laws or regulations being adopted, have created significant uncertainty regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, companies with Internet operations, including those of our company. In particular, the MIIT has stated that the activities of Internet content providers, or entities providing delivery of Internet content, are subject to regulation by various PRC government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. We cannot be certain that the commercial Internet content provider license issued by the local Shanghai Municipal Telecommunications Bureau and held by RAL will satisfy these requirements. For example, we may be required to obtain an inter-provincial Internet content provider license in order to operate online businesses in multiple provinces, autonomous regions and centrally administered municipalities. In addition, PRC government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries is burdensome and may become even more so. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. Our failure to comply with applicable PRC Internet regulations could subject us to severe sanctions. In July 2006, the MIIT issued the Notice on Strengthening the Administration of Foreign Investment in the Operation of Value Added Telecommunication Business, or the MIIT Notice. According to the MIIT Notice, foreign investors can only operate a telecommunications business in China by establishing a telecommunications enterprise with a valid telecommunications business operation license. Domestic value-added telecommunications services license holders are prohibited from leasing, transferring or selling telecommunications business operation licenses to foreign investors in any form, and from providing any resource, sites or facilities to foreign investors to facilitate the illegal operation of a telecommunications business in China. The MIIT Notice also requires that value-added telecommunications services license holders (including their shareholders) directly own the domain names and registered trademarks used by such value-added telecommunications services license holders in their daily operations. The MIIT Notice further requires each value-added telecommunications services license holder to have the necessary facilities for its approved business operations and to maintain such facilities in the regions covered by its license. In addition, all value-added telecommunications service providers are required to improve network and information security, draft relevant information safety administration regulations and set up networks and information safety emergency plans. The provincial communications administration bureaus in charge of telecommunications services are required to ensure that existing value-added telecommunications services license holders will conduct a self-assessment of their compliance with the MIIT Notice and submit status reports to the MIIT before November 1, 2006. For those who are not in compliance with the requirements above and fail to rectify the noncompliance within the limited period set by provincial communications administration bureaus, the provincial communications administration bureaus may revoke their operating licenses. We have made inquiries with relevant authorities regarding the MIIT Notice. However, due to the lack of clear interpretation guidelines, it is uncertain whether the MIIT would consider our corporate structure and contractual arrangements as a kind of foreign investment in telecommunication services. It remains unclear what impact the MIIT Notice will have on us or other companies that have adopted the same or similar corporate and contractual structures as ours at this time. The continued growth of the Chinese Internet market depends on the establishment of an adequate telecommunications infrastructure. Although private sector Internet service providers currently exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through China Telecom and China Unicom under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the MIIT. In addition, the national networks in China connect to the Internet through a government-controlled international gateway. This international gateway is the only channel through which a domestic user can connect to the international Internet network. We rely on this infrastructure and China Telecom and China Unicom to provide data communications capacity, primarily through local telecommunications lines. We cannot assure you that this infrastructure will be developed. We have no access to alternative networks or services, on a timely basis or if at all, in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure or telecommunications networks. The Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. 19 Table of Contents The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect us. The PRC legal system is based upon written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the PRC legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, the PRC has not developed a fully integrated legal system and the array of new laws and regulations may not be sufficient to cover all aspects of economic activities in the PRC. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, published government policies and internal rules may have retroactive effects and, in some cases, the policies and rules are not published at all. As a result, we may be unaware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time later. Our contractual arrangements with our affiliated entities are governed by the laws of the PRC. The enforcement of these contracts and the interpretation of the laws governing these relationships is subject to uncertainty. See “— Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure — The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations and contractual arrangements are uncertain, and if we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions.” You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us or our management. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and the majority of our assets are located in China. In addition, the majority of our directors and executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Under our current structure, our income will be primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries and other payments such as royalty and licensing fees. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated entities to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, royalty payments or other fees to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. In May 2007, the PRC government widened the daily trading band from 0.3% to 0.5%. These changes in policy resulted in an appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar of approximately 3.3% in 2006, 6.5% in 2007 and 6.5% in 2008, and we reported losses from foreign currency translation of RMB9.4 million in 2006, RMB18.1 million in 2007 and RMB17.7 million (US$2.6 million) in 2008. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in further and more significant revaluations of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. As a portion of our assets are denominated in U.S. dollars, any future upward revaluations of the Renminbi will result in charges to our income statement and reductions in the value of these U.S. dollar denominated assets when translated into Renminbi. 20 Table of Contents In addition, as we rely entirely on dividends, royalty payments and other fees paid to us in Renminbi by our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in the PRC, any significant downward revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. For further information on our foreign exchange risks and certain exchange rates, see “Item 3. — Key Information — Selected Financial Data — Exchange Rate Information” and “Item 11. — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign Exchange Risk.” Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents and employee stock options granted by overseas-listed companies may increase our administrative burden and adversely impact our business and prospects. If our shareholders who are PRC residents fail to make any required registrations or filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. As part of our growth strategy, we may decide to expand, in part, by acquiring certain complementary or new businesses in the future, including companies incorporated in the PRC. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, issued the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Round-trip Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies in October 2005, which became effective in November 2005, and an implementation rule in May 2007, or collectively the SAFE Rules. According to the SAFE Rules, PRC citizens and foreign citizens who reside in China, are required to register with the SAFE or its local branch office before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of financing the offshore company with their ownership interests in the assets of or their interests in any Chinese enterprise. The offshore companies are referred to in the SAFE Rules as “offshore special purpose companies.” In addition, a PRC resident that is a shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch with respect to the offshore special purpose company in connection with the injection of equity interests or assets of a Chinese enterprise in the offshore company or overseas fund raising by the offshore company, or any other material change in the capital of the offshore company, including any increase or decrease of capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, long-term equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. The SAFE Rules apply retroactively. As a result, Chinese residents who have established or acquired control of offshore companies that have made onshore investments in China in the past are required to complete the relevant registration procedures with the applicable local SAFE authority. If any resident of China fails to register with the SAFE with respect to its ownership of an existing offshore entity, dividends remitted by the onshore entity to its overseas parent may be considered an evasion of foreign exchange purchase rules, and therefore, may be subject to penalties under relevant PRC foreign exchange laws and regulations. In addition, failure to comply with registration procedures may result in restrictions on the relevant onshore entity, including prohibitions on the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent or affiliate and on capital inflow from the offshore entity. Current regulations are still uncertain and unclear. It is possible that the relevant government authorities may promulgate new legislation to interpret, amend or implement the SAFE Rules in various ways. As a result, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of any target PRC business we may acquire, as the case may be, will be able to complete the necessary approval, filings and registrations for a proposed acquisition. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and adversely affect our business and prospects. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas Listed Company, or the Stock Option Rule, to regulate foreign exchange procedures for PRC individuals participating in employee stock holding and stock option plans of overseas companies. Under the Stock Option Rule, a PRC domestic individual must comply with various foreign exchange procedures through a domestic agent institution when participating in any employee stock holding plan or stock option plan of an overseas listed company. Certain domestic agent institutions, such as the PRC subsidiaries of an overseas listed company, a labor union of such company that is a legal person or a qualified financial institution, among others things, shall file with the SAFE and be responsible for completing relevant foreign exchange procedures on behalf of PRC domestic individuals, such as applying to obtain the SAFE approval for exchanging foreign currency in connection with owning stock or stock option exercises. Concurrent with the filing of such applications with the SAFE, the PRC subsidiary, as a domestic agent must obtain approval from the SAFE to open a special foreign exchange account at a PRC domestic bank to hold the funds in connection with the stock purchase or option exercise, any returns based on stock sales, any stock dividends issued and any other income or expenditures approved by the SAFE. The PRC subsidiary also is required to obtain approval from the SAFE to open an overseas special foreign exchange account at an overseas trust bank to hold overseas funds used in connection with any stock purchase. 21 Table of Contents Under the Stock Option Rule, all proceeds obtained by PRC domestic individuals from sales of stock shall be fully remitted back to China after relevant overseas expenses are deducted. The foreign exchange proceeds from these sales can be converted into RMB or transferred to the individual’s foreign exchange savings account after the proceeds have been remitted back to the special foreign exchange account opened at the PRC domestic bank. If the stock option is exercised in a cashless exercise, the PRC domestic individuals are required to remit the proceeds to the special foreign exchange account. If we or our PRC optionees fail to comply with these regulations in the future, we or our PRC optionees and their local employers may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market prices of the securities of companies with Internet related and online businesses have been extremely volatile and may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes or revisions by us to previously released operating and financial targets; • announcements of new services by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • conditions in our industry, which is the market for recruitment advertising services and other human resource related services in China; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • release of transfer restrictions on our outstanding common shares or ADSs or sales of additional common shares or ADSs; and • pending or potential litigation or regulatory investigations. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies, such as during the current global economic and financial market crisis. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. The future sales, or perceived future sales, by our existing shareholders of a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market or through private transactions could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If our shareholders sell, or are perceived as intending to sell, substantial amounts of our common shares or ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market or through private transactions, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales, or perceived potential sales, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Common shares held by our existing shareholders and our affiliates may also be sold in the public market in the future under, and subject to the restrictions contained in, Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. In addition, see “Item 6. — Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Compensation — Stock-Based Compensation Plans” for a description of outstanding options to purchase our common shares. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution of your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not offer you those rights unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities is either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. 22 Table of Contents You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. As a holder of ADSs, you may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying common shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying common shares in accordance with these instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the shares. Under our fifth amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening either an annual meeting or a general meeting called to vote on matters requiring the approval of two thirds of the voting shares is 20 days. The minimum notice period for other general meetings is 14 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the shares to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. You may not receive distributions on common shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on common shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of common shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, common shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, common shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our common shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and the majority of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, a majority of our directors and executive officers are nationals or residents of jurisdictions other than the United States and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against our directors or executive officers. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (2007 Revision), as amended and revised from time to time, and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. 23 Table of Contents The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. 