Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Fluctuating demand in the tissue and specialty paper industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The market for tissue and specialty paper products is sensitive to changes in general business conditions, industry capacity, consumer preferences and other factors. Our business exhibits some of this sensitivity, particularly in the away-from-home tissue market. Demand is influenced by fluctuations in inventory levels held by customers and consumer preferences. Supply depends primarily on industry capacity and capacity utilization rates. In periods of economic weakness, reduced spending by consumers and businesses results in decreased demand, potentially causing downward price pressure. In particular, the away-from-home market has experienced a recent decline because of the slowdown in the travel and restaurant industries and an increase in lay-offs as a result of the current economic downturn. This decline has had an effect on our net sales throughout fiscal year 2010 and may continue to have an effect in the future. Industry participants may also, at times, add new capacity or increase capacity utilization rates, potentially causing supply to exceed demand and exerting downward price pressure. We have no control over these factors, and they can heavily influence our financial performance. Our operating results depend upon our wood pulp costs. An increase in wood pulp costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Pulp is the principal raw material used in the manufacture of our specialty paper and tissue products. It is purchased in highly competitive, price sensitive markets. We buy a significant amount of pulp and other raw materials either through supply agreements or on the spot market. For fiscal year 2010, we purchased approximately 322,000 metric tons of pulp and recycled fiber at a cost of $145 million, compared to 331,000 metric tons of pulp and recycled fiber in fiscal year 2009 at a cost of $185.7 million. Pulp prices continued to increase in fiscal 2010 from their low point in April 2009 and are expected to continue to increase into the second quarter of fiscal 2011. When pulp prices increase, we can generally pass most increases in the cost of pulp through to our customers, but price increases may not be passed to customers for three months or more after such increases in pulp prices occur. In some cases, the lag may be longer or we may not be able to pass through such cost increases at all. When pulp prices decline, we generally pass most decreases in the cost of pulp through to our tissue and machine-glazed tissue hardroll customers. For example, net sales in our machine-glazed tissue segment decreased 8.0% in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 in part because of a decrease in net selling price per ton following a decrease in pulp prices. In addition, many of our arrangements with away-from-home hardroll customers do not have price escalators relating to wood pulp prices, and consequently, in some instances, we are unable to pass along an increase in pulp costs to these customers. We have agreements with various pulp vendors to purchase various amounts of pulp over the next two years. These commitments require purchases of pulp up to approximately 178,000 metric tons per year at pulp prices below published list prices and allow us to shift a portion of our pulp purchases to the spot market to take advantage of spot market prices when such prices fall. We believe that our current commitment under these arrangements or their equivalent approximates 50% to 65% of our current budgeted pulp needs through fiscal year 2012. If upon expiration of these agreements, or upon failure of our suppliers to fulfill their obligations under these agreements, we are unable to obtain wood pulp on terms as favorable as those contained therein, our cost of goods sold may increase and results of operations will be impaired. As a result, our ability to satisfy customer demands and to manufacture products in a cost-effective manner may be materially adversely affected. In addition, the costs and availability of wood pulp have at times fluctuated greatly because of weather, economic global buying behaviors or general industry conditions. From time to time, timber 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements harvesting may be limited by natural events, such as fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, excessive rainfall and wind storms or by harvesting restrictions. Production levels within the forest products industry are also affected by such factors as currency fluctuations, duties and finished lumber prices. These factors may increase the price we have to pay to our existing or any new suppliers. In the presence of oversupply in the markets we serve, selling prices of our finished products may not increase in response to raw material price increases. If we are unable to pass any raw material price increases through to our customers, our business financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our significant debt obligations, or our incurrence of additional debt, could limit our flexibility in managing our business and could materially and adversely effect our financial performance. We are highly leveraged. As of February 28, 2010 we had approximately $243.3 million of long-term indebtedness outstanding. In addition, we are permitted under our revolving line of credit, which we refer to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as our working capital facility, and the indenture governing our senior secured notes to incur additional debt, subject to certain limitations. Our high degree of leverage may have important consequences, including the following: • we may have difficulty satisfying our obligations under our indebtedness and, if we fail to comply with these requirements, an event of default could result; • we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities (please refer to the table below under the heading “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Contractual Obligations,” which sets forth our payment obligations with respect to our existing long-term debt); • covenants relating to our debt may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; • covenants relating to our debt may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • we may be more vulnerable than our competitors to the impact of economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; and • we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage against any less leveraged competitors. The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. In addition, subject to restrictions in the indenture governing our senior secured notes and restrictions in our working capital facility, we may incur additional indebtedness. As of February 28, 2010, we had approximately $50.9 million of availability under our working capital facility, after giving effect to outstanding letters of credit having a face amount of approximately $4.6 million. The terms of the indenture governing our senior secured notes permit us to incur additional debt, including a limited amount of additional secured debt. Any additional indebtedness we incur could increase the risks associated with our already substantial indebtedness and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our energy costs may be higher than we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We use energy—mainly natural gas and electricity—to operate machinery and to generate steam, which we use in our production process. In the past, energy prices, particularly for natural gas and fuel 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements oil, have increased, with a corresponding effect on our production costs. Although energy prices have been decreasing recently, such costs may increase again in the future. During fiscal year 2010 and 2009, we spent approximately $45.3 million and $56.3 million, respectively, on electricity, natural gas, oil and coal. If our energy costs are greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Unforeseen or recurring operational problems and maintenance outages at any of our facilities may cause significant lost production, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our manufacturing process could be affected by operational problems that could impair our production capability. Each of our facilities contains complex and sophisticated machines that are used in our manufacturing process. Disruptions or shutdowns at any of our facilities could be caused by: • maintenance outages to conduct maintenance operations that cannot be performed safely during operations; • prolonged power failures or reductions, including the effect of lightning strikes on our electrical supply; • breakdowns, failures or substandard performance of any of our pulping machines, paper machines, recovery boilers, converting machines, de-inking facility or other equipment; • the effect of noncompliance with material environmental requirements or permits; • shortages of raw materials, a drought or lower than expected rainfall on our water supply; • disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including railroad tracks, bridges, tunnels or roads; • fires, floods, tornados, hurricanes, earthquakes or other catastrophic disasters; • labor difficulties; or • other operational problems. If our facilities are shut down, they may experience prolonged startup periods, regardless of the reason for the shutdown. Those startup periods could range from several days to several weeks, depending on the reason for the shutdown and other factors. Any prolonged disruption in operations of any of our facilities could cause significant lost production, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Labor disputes or increased labor costs could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. As of February 28, 2010, approximately 50% of our active full-time employees were represented by either the United Steelworkers of America or the Independent Paper Workers of Canada through various collective bargaining agreements. We are currently in collective bargaining negotiations with the United Steelworkers of America at our facilities in Gouverneur, New York and Menoniminee, Michigan and with the Independent Paperworkers of Canada at our facility in St. Catherines, Ontario. The collective bargaining agreements at: (i) Gouverneur, New York expired in October 2009; (ii) Menominee, Michigan expired in December 2009; and (iii) St. Catherines, Ontario expired in February 2010. The workers have proposed an increase in wages and benefits to be included in any new collective bargaining agreement. Any significant work stoppage in the future or any significant increase in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our collective bargaining agreements at the Wiggins, Mississippi and Neenah, Wisconsin facilities expire in June 2011 and June 2013, respectively. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We are dependent upon continued demand from our large customers. If we lose order volumes from any of our largest customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our largest customers account for a significant portion of our sales. Our ten largest customers represented 43.9% of our sales for fiscal year 2010 and 46.3% of our sales for the fiscal year 2009. Our largest single customer represented less than 10% of our sales in fiscal year 2010 and 2009. Some of our large customers (including four of our ten largest customers) have the capability of producing the products that they currently buy from us. The loss or significant reduction of orders from any of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Restrictive covenants in our working capital facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our working capital facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur additional debt and guarantees; • pay dividends and repurchase our stock; • make other restricted payments, including without limitation, investments; • create liens; • sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into agreements that restrict dividends from subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into new lines of business. The agreement governing our working capital facility also requires us to maintain compliance with a 1:1 fixed charge coverage ratio if the average monthly availability under the facility is less than 15% of the facility commitment. Although the average monthly availability as of February 28, 2010 was $52.8 million, which was significantly higher than the covenant trigger level of $9 million, our ability to comply with this ratio may be affected by events beyond our control. The restrictions contained in the indenture governing our senior secured notes and the agreement governing our working capital facility could: • limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans; and • adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, strategic acquisitions, investments or alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. Any failure on our part to comply with these restrictive covenants may result in an event of default. Such event of default may trigger an acceleration right for our lenders under our working capital facility or the holders of our senior secured notes. If our obligations to repay the indebtedness under our working capital facility or our senior secured notes were accelerated, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient assets to repay in full such indebtedness. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance, our obligations with respect to our indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn will be affected by general economic conditions and by financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future sources of capital will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds that may be realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. Our working capital facility and the indenture governing our senior secured notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We are subject to significant environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and compliance expenditures. The cost of compliance with, and liabilities under, such laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business is subject to a wide range of federal, state, local and foreign general and industry specific environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management and disposal and site remediation. We are also subject to frequent inspections and monitoring by government enforcement authorities. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. From time to time, we incur significant capital and operating expenditures to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations or permit requirements could result in substantial civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring remedial or corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Certain of our operations also require environmental permits or other approvals from governmental authorities, and certain of these permits and approvals are subject to expiration, denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with these permits and approvals, or with other environmental requirements, may subject us to civil or criminal enforcement proceedings that could lead to substantial fines and penalties being imposed against us, orders requiring us to take certain actions or temporary or permanent shutdown of our affected operations. Such enforcement proceedings could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, as an owner and operator of real estate, we may be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for the investigation, remediation and monitoring, as well as associated costs, expenses and third-party damages, including tort liability and natural resource damages, relating to past or present releases of hazardous substances on or from our properties. Liability under these laws may be imposed without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of those substances on our property, may be joint and several, meaning that the entire liability may be imposed on each party without regard to contribution, and retroactive and may not be limited to the value of the property. In addition, we or others may discover new material environmental liabilities, including 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements liabilities related to third-party owned properties that we or our predecessors formerly owned or operated, or at which we or our predecessors have disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of, certain materials. We may be involved in administrative or judicial proceedings and inquiries in the future relating to such environmental matters which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. New environmental laws or regulations (or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement) may be enacted that require significant expenditures by us. If the resulting expenses significantly exceed our expectations, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. For example, there has been a recent legislative focus on greenhouse gas emissions, which could lead to laws or regulations requiring expenditures at our coal-based Menominee, Michigan facility or at other of our facilities. We are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign requirements concerning safety and health conditions at our manufacturing facilities. We may also be subject to material financial penalties or liabilities for noncompliance with those safety and health requirements, as well as potential business disruption, if any of our facilities or a portion of any facility is required to be temporarily closed as a result of any noncompliance with those requirements. Such financial penalties, liabilities or business disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may expand through acquisitions of other companies, which may divert our management’s attention and result in unexpected operating difficulties, increased costs and dilution to our stockholders. We may make strategic acquisitions of other businesses. An acquisition may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures in assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies. Furthermore, future acquisitions may: • involve our entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience; • create difficulties in retaining the customers of any acquired business; • result in a delay or reduction of sales for both us and the company we acquire; and • disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our current business. To complete an acquisition, we may be required to use a substantial amount of our cash or engage in equity or debt financing. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital-raising activities and other financial and operational matters that make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all, which could limit our ability to engage in acquisitions. Moreover, we can make no assurances that the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, such as operating improvements or anticipated cost savings, would be realized or that we would not be exposed to unexpected liabilities. Further, an acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations because it may require us to incur charges and substantial debt or liabilities, may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation and amortization or deferred compensation charges, or may require the amortization, write-down or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill and other intangible assets, or may not generate sufficient financial return to offset acquisition costs. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We face many competitors, several of which have greater financial and other resources, and our customers may choose their products instead of ours. We face competition in each of our markets from companies that produce the same type of products that we produce or that produce alternative products that customers may use instead of our products. We currently compete in the tissue, converted paper and specialty paper markets. Some of our competitors may be able to produce certain of our products at lower cost than us. Additionally, several of our competitors are large, vertically integrated companies that are more strongly capitalized than us or have more financial resources than us. Any of the foregoing factors may enable our competitors to better withstand periods of declining demand and adverse operating conditions. In addition, changes within the paper industry, including the consolidation of our competitors and consolidation of companies in the distribution channels for our products, have occurred and may continue to occur and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We compete on the basis of product quality and performance, price, service, sales and distribution. Competing in our markets involves the following key risks: • our failure to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences and demographics; • our failure to develop new and improved products; • aggressive pricing by competitors, which may force us to decrease prices in an attempt to maintain market share; • consolidation of our customer base that diminishes our negotiating leverage; • the decision by our large customers to discontinue outsourcing the production of their products to us and to produce their products themselves; • acquisition of a customer by one of our competitors, who thereafter replaces us as a supplier for that customer; and • our failure to control costs. These competitive factors could cause our customers to shift to other products or attempt to produce products themselves. Additional competition could result in lost market share or reduced prices for our products. Excess supply in the markets we serve may reduce the prices we are able to charge for our products. Our competitors may build new machines or may activate idle machines, which would add more capacity to the tissue, specialty paper and converted paper and tissue product markets. Increased production capacity in any of these markets could cause an oversupply, resulting in lower market prices for our products and increased competition, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may lose business to competitors who underbid us, and we may be otherwise unable to compete favorably under declining market conditions. Demand for tissue, converted paper and tissue products and specialty paper products tends to be more price-sensitive during declining market conditions than during normal market conditions. When market conditions decline, our competitors are more likely to try to underbid our prices in markets where we enjoy a leading position to target some of our market share in those markets. This competitive behavior could drive market prices down and hinder our ability to pass on increases in raw 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements material costs to our customers. Because of the fixed-cost nature of our business, our overall profitability is sensitive to minor shifts in the balance between supply and demand. Competitors having lower operating costs than we do will have a competitive advantage over us with respect to products that are particularly price-sensitive. The loss of our key managers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future success depends, in significant part, upon the continued services of our management personnel. Our Chief Executive Officer, Russell C. Taylor, has over 25 years experience in the paper and paper products industry. Our senior executives have an average of over 25 years experience in the paper and paper products industry. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management or other key employees, should the need arise. Therefore, the loss of services of one or more of our key senior managers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Exposure to interest rate changes and other types of capital market volatility could increase our financing costs. We require both short-term and long-term financing to fund our operations, including capital expenditures. We are exposed to changes in interest rates with respect to our working capital facility and any new debt offerings. Changes in the capital markets, our credit rating or prevailing interest rates can increase or decrease the cost or availability of financing which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, because some of our operations and sales are in international markets, we could be adversely affected by unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in the political or economic conditions in the United States, Canada and, to a lesser extent, other countries in which our products are sold could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We sell our products in the United States, Canada, Mexico and South America. The economic and political climate of each of these regions has a significant impact on costs, prices and demand for our products in these areas. Changes in regional economies or political stability (including acts of war or terrorism) and changes in trade restrictions or laws (including tax laws and regulations, increased tariffs or other trade barriers) can affect the cost of manufacturing and distributing our products and the price and sales volume of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may develop unexpected legal contingencies, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. These proceedings primarily involve commercial claims, personal injury claims and workers’ compensation claims. We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, legal proceedings and claims with certainty. In the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolutions of such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, there may also be adverse publicity associated with legal proceedings that could negatively affect the perception of our business, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. As a result, legal proceedings may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may have material misstatements in our financial statements, and we may not be able to report our financial results in a timely and reliable manner. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management in our Form 10-K on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may be unable to provide financial information in a timely and reliable manner. Any such difficulties or failure may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 