ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The high level of competition in our industry, much of which comes from competitors with greater resources, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results from operations. The business of selling brand name consumer products in the OTC Healthcare and Household Cleaning categories is highly competitive. These markets include numerous manufacturers, distributors, marketers and retailers that actively compete for consumers’ business both in the United States and abroad. Many of these competitors are larger and have substantially greater resources than we do, and may therefore have the ability to spend more aggressively on research and development, advertising and marketing, and to respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions. If this were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. Certain of our product lines that account for a large percentage of our sales have a small market share relative to our competitors. For example, while Clear Eyes has a number two market share position of 16.2% within the allergy/redness eye drop segment, its top competitor, Visine®, has a market share of 31.4% in the same segment. In contrast, certain of our brands with number two market positions have a similar market share relative to our competitors. For example, Compound W has a number two market position of 36.0% and its top competitor, Dr. Scholl’s®, has a market position of 40.4% in the same category. Finally, while our New-Skin liquid bandage product has a number one market position of 55.8%, the size of the liquid bandage market is relatively small, particularly when compared to the much larger bandage category. See “Part I, Item 1. Business” section on page 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding market share calculations. We compete for customers’ attention based on a number of factors, including brand recognition, product quality, performance, price and product availability at the retail level. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging, the timing of new product introductions and line extensions also have a significant impact on consumer buying decisions and, as a result, on our sales. The structure and quality of our sales force, as well as sell-through of our products affect in-store position, wall display space and inventory levels in retail stores. If we are unable to maintain our current distribution network, inventory levels and in-store positioning of our products at our customers, our sales and operating results will be adversely affected. Our markets also are highly sensitive to the introduction of new products, which may rapidly capture a significant share of the market. An increase in the number of product innovations by our competitors or the failure of a new product launch by the Company could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In addition, competitors may attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those typically offered by us. Competitive pricing may require us to reduce prices which may result in lost sales or a reduction of our profit margins. Future price adjustments, product changes or new product introductions by our competitors or our inability to react with price adjustments, product changes or new product introductions of our own could result in a loss of market share which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. We depend on a limited number of customers with whom we have no long-term agreements for a large portion of our gross sales and the loss of one or more of these customers could reduce our gross sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For 2011, our top five and ten customers accounted for approximately 41.7% and 53.0%, respectively, of our sales, compared with approximately 45.6% and 57.3% for 2010 and 47.1% and 58.5% for 2009. Walmart, which itself accounted for approximately 20.3%, 24.4% and 25.5% of our sales in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, is our only customer that accounted for 10% or more of our sales. We expect that for future periods, our top five and ten customers, including Walmart, will, in the aggregate, continue to account for a large portion of our sales. The loss of one or more of our top customers, any significant decrease in sales to these customers, or a significant decrease in our retail display space in any of these customers’ stores, could reduce our sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In addition, our business is based primarily upon individual sales orders. We typically do not enter into long-term contracts with our customers. Accordingly, our customers could cease buying products from us at any time and for any reason. The fact that we do not have long-term contracts with our customers means that we have no recourse in the event a customer no longer wants to purchase products from us. If a significant number of our smaller customers, or any of our significant customers, elect not to purchase products from us, our business, financial condition and results from operations could be adversely affected. Our business has been and could continue to be adversely affected by a prolonged recession in the United States. The economic uncertainty surrounding the current United States recession has affected and could continue to materially affect our business because such economic challenges could adversely affect consumers, our customers and suppliers. Specifically:14 •Consumer spending may continue to be curtailed resulting in downward pressure on our sales, •Our customers may continue to rationalize the number of products that reach store shelves resulting in a reduction of the number of products that are carried at retail, particularly those that are not number one or two in their category, •Our customers may continue to reduce overall inventory levels to strengthen their working capital positions which could result in additional sales reductions for us during those periods that our customers implement such strategies, •Our customers may continue to increase the number and breadth of products that are sold via their “private label” to the detriment of our branded products, •Our customers may continue to rationalize store count, closing additional marginally performing stores resulting in sales reductions, potential working capital reductions, and an inability to repay amounts owed to us, and •Our suppliers may suffer from sales reductions which could diminish their working capital and impede their ability to provide product to us in a timely manner. We depend on third-party manufacturers to produce the products we sell. If we are unable to maintain these manufacturing relationships or fail to enter into additional relationships, as necessary, we may be unable to meet customer demand and our sales and profitability could suffer as a result. All of our products are produced by third-party manufacturers. Our ability to retain our current manufacturing relationships and engage in and successfully transition to new relationships is critical to our ability to deliver quality products to our customers in a timely manner. Without adequate supplies of quality merchandise, sales would decrease materially and our business would suffer. In the event that our primary third-party manufacturers are unable or unwilling to ship products to us in a timely manner, we would have to rely on secondary manufacturing relationships or identify and qualify new manufacturing relationships. We might not be able to identify or qualify such manufacturers for existing or new products in a timely manner and such manufacturers may not allocate sufficient capacity to us in order that we may meet our commitments to customers. In addition, identifying alternative manufacturers without adequate lead times can compromise required product validation and stability protocol, which may involve additional manufacturing expense, delay in production or product disadvantage in the marketplace. The consequences of not securing adequate and timely supplies of merchandise would negatively impact inventory levels, sales and gross margins, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. These manufacturers may also increase the cost of the products we purchase which could adversely affect our margins in the event we are unable to pass along these increased costs to our customers. A situation such as this could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. At March 31, 2011, we had relationships with over 40 third-party manufacturers. Of those, we had long-term contracts with 11 manufacturers that produced items that accounted for approximately 52.9% of our gross sales for each of 2011 and 2010. The fact that we do not have long-term contracts with certain manufacturers means that they could cease manufacturing these products at any time and for any reason, or initiate arbitrary and costly price increases which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. Price increases for raw materials, labor, energy and transportation costs could have an adverse impact on our margins. The costs to manufacture and distribute our products are subject to fluctuation based on a variety of factors. Increases in commodity raw material (including resins) and packaging component prices and labor, energy and fuel costs could have a significant impact on our 2012 results from operations. Consequently, if we are unable to increase the price for our products or continue to achieve cost savings in a rising cost environment, such cost increases would reduce our gross margins and could have a material adverse effect on our results from operations. If we increase the price for our products in order to maintain gross margins for our products, such increase may adversely affect demand for, and sales of, our products which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Disruption in our St. Louis distribution center may prevent us from meeting customer demand and our sales and profitability may suffer as a result. We manage our product distribution in the continental United States through one primary distribution center in St. Louis, Missouri. A serious disruption, such as a flood or fire, to our primary distribution center could damage our inventory and could 15 materially impair our ability to distribute our products to customers in a timely manner or at a reasonable cost. We could incur significantly higher costs and experience longer lead times during the time required to reopen or replace our primary distribution center. As a result, any serious disruption could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. Achievement of our strategic objectives requires the acquisition, or potentially the disposition, of certain brands or product lines. Efforts to effect and integrate such acquisitions or dispositions may divert our managerial resources away from our business operations. The majority of our growth has been driven by acquiring other brands and companies. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions with respect to possible acquisitions that are intended to enhance our product portfolio, enable us to realize cost savings and further diversify our category, customer and channel focus. Our ability to successfully grow through acquisitions depends on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisition candidates and to obtain any necessary financing. These efforts could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. If we complete acquisitions, we may also experience: •Difficulties achieving, or an inability to achieve, our expected returns, •Difficulties in integrating any acquired companies, personnel and products into our existing business, •Delays in realizing the benefits of the acquired company or products, •Higher costs of integration than we anticipated, •Difficulties in retaining key employees of the acquired business who are necessary to manage the business, •Difficulties in maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout our acquired companies, or •Adverse customer or stockholder reaction to the acquisition. In addition, any acquisition could adversely affect our operating results as a result of higher interest costs from the acquisition-related debt and higher amortization expenses related to the acquired intangible assets. The diversion of management’s attention to pursue acquisitions, or our failure to successfully integrate acquired companies into our business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In the event that we decide to sell a brand or product line, we may encounter difficulty finding, or be unable to find, a buyer on acceptable terms in a timely manner. The pursuit of divestitures could divert management's attention from our business operations and result in a delay in our efforts to achieve our strategic objectives. Our risks associated with doing business internationally increase as we expand our international footprint. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, approximately 4.2%, 4.3% and 3.6%, respectively, of our total revenues were attributable to our international business. We generally rely on brokers and distributors for the sale of our products in foreign countries. In addition to the risks associated with political instability, changes in the outlook for economic prosperity in these countries could adversely affect the sales of our products in these countries. Other risks of doing business internationally include: •Changes in the legislative or regulatory requirements of the countries or regions where we do business, •Currency controls which restrict or prohibit the payment of funds or the repatriation of earnings to the United States, •Fluctuating foreign exchange rates could result in unfavorable increases in the price of our products or cause increases in the cost of certain products purchased from our foreign third-party manufacturers, •Regulatory oversight and its impact on our ability to get products registered for sale in certain markets, •Potential trade restrictions and exchange controls, •Inability to protect our intellectual property rights in these markets, and 16 •Increased costs of compliance with general business and tax regulations in these countries or regions. Regulatory matters governing our industry could have a significant negative effect on our sales and operating costs. In both our United States and foreign markets, we are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and other constraints exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United States and at analogous levels of government in foreign jurisdictions. The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, sale and storage of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including (i) the Food and Drug Administration ("FDA"), (ii) the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"), (iii) the Consumer Products Safety Commission ("CPSC"), (iv) the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA"), and by (v) various agencies of the states, localities and foreign countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed, stored and sold. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to enforcement actions, significant penalties or claims, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results from operations. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or the cessation of product sales and may adversely affect the marketing of our products, resulting in a significant loss of revenues which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. The FDC Act and FDA regulations require that the manufacturing processes of our third-party manufacturers must also comply with the FDA’s GMP. The FDA inspects our facilities and those of our third-party manufacturers periodically to determine if we and our third-party manufacturers are complying with GMPs. A history of past compliance is not a guarantee that future GMPs will not mandate other compliance steps and associated expense. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable federal, state, local or foreign regulations, we could be required to: •Suspend manufacturing operations, •Modify product formulations or processes, •Suspend the sale of products with non-complying specifications, •Initiate product recalls, or •Change product labeling, packaging or advertising or take other corrective action. Any of the foregoing actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In addition, our failure to comply with FTC or any other federal and state regulations, or with similar regulations in foreign markets, that cover our product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise materially adversely affect the distribution and sale of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. Product liability claims and related negative publicity could adversely affect our sales and operating results. We may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by our products. From time-to-time we have been and may again be subjected to various product liability claims. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, our products contain contaminants, include inadequate instructions or warnings regarding their use or inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. Any product liability claims may result in negative publicity that may adversely affect our sales and operating results. Also, if one of our products is found to be defective we may be required to recall it. This may result in substantial costs and negative publicity which may adversely affect our sales and operating results. Although we maintain, and require our suppliers and third-party manufacturers to maintain, product liability insurance coverage, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance coverage or potential product liability claims may be excluded under the terms of the policy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In addition, in the future we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage or we may be required to pay higher premiums and accept higher deductibles in order to secure adequate insurance coverage. 17 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights our ability to compete effectively in the market for our products could be negatively impacted. The market for our products depends to a significant extent upon the goodwill associated with our trademarks, trade names and patents. Our trademarks and trade names convey that the products we sell are “brand name” products. We believe consumers ascribe value to our brands, some of which are over 100 years old. We own or license the material trademark, trade names and patents used in connection with the packaging, marketing and sale of our products. These rights prevent our competitors or new entrants to the market from using our valuable brand names and technologies. Therefore, trademark, trade name and patent protection is critical to our business. Although most of our material intellectual property is registered in the United States and in applicable foreign countries, we may not be successful in asserting protection. If we were to lose the exclusive right to use one or more of our intellectual property rights, the loss of such exclusive right could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may thereby dilute the value of our brands in the marketplace. Brand dilution or the introduction of competitive brands could cause confusion in the marketplace and adversely affect the value that consumers associate with our brands, and thereby negatively impact our sales. Any such infringement of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a commitment of our time and resources, financial or otherwise, to protect these rights through litigation or other means. In addition, third parties may assert claims against our intellectual property rights and we may not be able to successfully resolve those claims causing us to lose our ability to use our intellectual property that is the subject of those claims. Such loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. Furthermore, from time-to-time, we may be involved in litigation in which we are enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights which could require us to incur substantial fees and expenses and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. We license certain of our trademarks to third party licensees, who are bound by their respective license agreement to protect our trademarks from infringement and adhere to defined quality requirements. If a licensee of our trademarks fails to adhere to the contractually defined quality requirements, our financial results could be negatively impacted if one of our brands suffers a substantial impairment to its reputation due to real or perceived quality issues. Further, if a licensee fails to protect one of our licensed trademarks from infringement, we might be required to take action. Virtually all of our assets consist of goodwill and intangibles. As our financial statements indicate, virtually all of our assets consist of goodwill and intangibles, principally the trademarks, trade names and patents that we have acquired. We recorded charges in 2010 and 2009 for impairment of those assets and in the event that the value of those assets become further impaired or our business is materially adversely affected in any way, we would not have tangible assets that could be sold to repay our liabilities. As a result, our creditors and investors may not be able to recoup the amount of the indebtedness that they have extended to us or the amount they have invested in us. We depend on third parties for intellectual property relating to some of the products we sell, and our inability to maintain or enter into future license agreements may result in our failure to meet customer demand, which would adversely affect our operating results. We have licenses or manufacturing agreements with third parties that own intellectual property (e.g., formulae, copyrights, trademarks, trade dress, patents and other technology) used in the manufacture and sale of certain of our products. In the event that any such license or manufacturing agreement expires or is otherwise terminated, we will lose the right to use the intellectual property covered by such license or agreement and will have to develop or obtain rights to use other intellectual property. Similarly, our rights could be reduced if the applicable licensor or third-party manufacturer fails to maintain or protect the licensed intellectual property because, in such event, our competitors could obtain the right to use the intellectual property without restriction. If this were to occur, we might not be able to develop or obtain replacement intellectual property in a timely or cost effective manner. Additionally, any modified products may not be well-received by customers. The consequences of losing the right to use or having reduced rights to such intellectual property could negatively impact our sales due to our failure to meet consumer demand for the affected products or require us to incur costs for development of new or different intellectual property, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In addition, development of replacement products may be time-consuming and ultimately may not be feasible. 18 We depend on our key personnel and the loss of the services provided by any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business and results of operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our senior management, many of whom would be difficult to replace. These employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. We may not be able to successfully retain existing personnel or identify, hire and integrate new personnel. While we believe we have developed depth and experience among our key personnel, our business may be adversely affected if one or more of these key individuals were to leave. We do not maintain any key-man or similar insurance policies covering any of our senior management or key personnel. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and the significant amount of cash we need to service our debt will not be available to reinvest in our business. At March 31, 2011, our total indebtedness, including current maturities, is approximately $492.0 million. Our indebtedness could: •Increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, •Limit our ability to engage in strategic acquisitions, •Require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations toward repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes, •Limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate, •Place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt, and •Limit, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds on favorable terms or at all. The terms of the indenture governing the 8.25% senior notes and the credit agreement governing the senior credit facility allow us to issue and incur additional debt upon satisfaction of conditions set forth in the respective agreements. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the related risks described above could increase. At March 31, 2011, we had $40.0 million of borrowing capacity available under the Revolving Credit Facility to support our operating activities. We also have the ability to borrow up to an additional $75.0 million for acquisitions pursuant to our senior credit facility. Our operating flexibility is limited in significant respects by the restrictive covenants in our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes. Our senior credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes impose restrictions that could impede our ability to enter into certain corporate transactions, as well as increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in our business and industry. These restrictions limit our ability to, among other things: •Borrow money or issue guarantees, •Pay dividends, repurchase stock from or make other restricted payments to stockholders, •Make investments or acquisitions, •Use assets as security in other transactions, •Sell assets or merge with or into other companies, •Enter into transactions with affiliates, •Sell stock in our subsidiaries, and19 •Direct our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments to us. Our ability to engage in these types of transactions is generally limited by the terms of the senior credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes, even if we believe that a specific transaction would positively contribute to our future growth, operating results or profitability. However, if we are able to enter into these types of transactions under the terms of the senior credit facility and the indenture, or if we obtain a waiver with respect to any specific transaction, that transaction may cause our indebtedness to increase, may not result in the benefits we anticipate or may cause us to incur greater costs or suffer greater disruptions in our business than we anticipate, and could therefore, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. In addition, the senior credit facility requires us to maintain certain leverage and interest coverage ratios and not to exceed annual capital expenditures of $3.0 million. Although we believe we can continue to meet and/or maintain the financial covenants contained in our credit agreement, our ability to do so may be affected by events outside our control. Covenants in our senior credit facility also require us to use 100% of the proceeds we receive from debt issuances to repay outstanding borrowings under our senior credit facility. Any failure by us to comply with the terms and conditions of the credit agreement and the indenture governing the senior notes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. The senior credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes contain cross-default provisions that could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. The senior credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes contain provisions that allow the respective creditors to declare all outstanding borrowings under one agreement to be immediately due and payable as a result of a default under the other agreement. Consequently, under the senior credit facility, failure to make a payment required by the indenture governing the senior notes, among other things, may lead to an event of default under the senior credit facility. Similarly, an event of default or failure to make a required payment at maturity under the senior credit facility, among other things, may lead to an event of default under the indenture governing the senior notes. If the debt under the senior credit facility and indenture governing the senior notes were to both be accelerated, the aggregate amount immediately due and payable as of March 31, 2011 would have been approximately $492.0 million. We presently do not have sufficient liquidity to repay these borrowings in the event they were to be accelerated, and we may not have sufficient liquidity in the future to do so. Additionally, we may not be able to borrow money from other lenders to enable us to refinance the indebtedness. At March 31, 2011, the book value of our current assets was $107.6 million. Although the book value of our total assets was $1,056.9 million, approximately $941.3 million was in the form of intangible assets, including goodwill of $154.9 million, a significant portion of which is illiquid and may not be available to satisfy our creditors in the event our debt is accelerated. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of the senior credit facility, the indenture governing the senior notes or any other subsequent financing agreements may result in an event of default. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, as well as any other debt to which the cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions apply. In addition, the lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with additional funding. As a result, any default by us under our credit agreement, indenture governing the senior notes or any other financing agreement, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results from operations. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, customers, consumers, suppliers, stockholders or others through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend current and future litigation may be significant. There may also be adverse publicity associated with litigation that could decrease customer acceptance of our products, regardless of whether the allegations are valid or whether we are ultimately found liable. Conversely, we may be required to initiate litigation against others to protect the value of our intellectual property and the goodwill associated therewith or enforce an agreement or contract that has been breached. These matters are extremely time consuming and expensive, but absolutely necessary to maintain enterprise value, protect our assets and realize the benefits of the agreements and contracts that we have negotiated and safeguard our future. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations in response to several factors, some of which are beyond our control, including (i) general stock market volatility, (ii) variations in our quarterly operating results, (iii) our leveraged financial position, (iv) potential sales of additional shares of our common stock, (v) perceptions associated with the identification of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, (vi) general trends in the consumer products industry, (vii) changes by securities analysts in their estimates or investment ratings, (viii) the relative illiquidity of our common stock, (ix) voluntary withdrawal or recall of products, (x) news regarding litigation in which we are or become involved, and (xi) general marketplace conditions brought on by economic recession. We have no current intention of paying dividends to holders of our common stock. We presently intend to retain our earnings, if any, for use in our operations, to facilitate strategic acquisitions, or to repay our outstanding indebtedness and have no current intention of paying dividends to holders of our common stock. In addition, our debt instruments limit our ability to declare and pay cash dividends on our common stock. As a result, your only opportunity to achieve a return on your investment in our common stock will be if the market price of our common stock appreciates and you sell your shares at a profit. Our annual and quarterly results from operations may fluctuate significantly and could fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, resulting in a decline in the price of our securities. Our annual and quarterly results from operations may fluctuate significantly because of several factors, including: •Increases and decreases in average quarterly revenues and profitability, •The rate at which we make acquisitions or develop new products and successfully market them, •Our inability to increase the sales of our existing products and expand their distribution, •Adverse regulatory or market events in our international markets, •Litigation matters, •Changes in consumer preferences, spending habits and competitive conditions, including the effects of competitors’ operational, promotional or expansion activities, •Seasonality of our products, •Fluctuations in commodity prices, product costs, utilities and energy costs, prevailing wage rates, insurance costs and other costs, •Our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, and the costs associated with those activities, •Changes in advertising and promotional activities and expansion to new markets, •Negative publicity relating to us and the products we sell, •Unanticipated increases in infrastructure costs, •Impairment of goodwill or long-lived assets, •Changes in interest rates, and •Changes in accounting, tax, regulatory or other rules applicable to our business. Our quarterly operating results and revenues may fluctuate as a result of any of these or other factors. Accordingly, results for any one quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any year, and revenues for any particular future period may decrease. In the future, operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and 21 investors. In that event, the market price of our outstanding securities could be adversely impacted. We can be adversely affected by the implementation of new, or changes in the interpretation of existing, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). Our financial reporting complies with GAAP which is subject to change over time. If new rules or interpretations of existing rules require us to change our financial reporting, our financial condition and results from operations could be adversely affected. Identification of a material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting may adversely affect our financial results. We are subject to the ongoing internal control provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the regulations promulgated thereunder. Those provisions provide for the identification and reporting of material weaknesses in our system of internal controls over financial reporting. If such a material weakness is identified, it could indicate a lack of controls adequate to generate accurate financial statements. We routinely assess our internal controls over financial reporting, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to timely remediate any material weaknesses that may be identified in future periods, or maintain all of the controls necessary for continued compliance. Likewise, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain sufficient skilled finance and accounting personnel, especially in light of the increased demand for such personnel among publicly-traded companies. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may discourage potential acquirers of our company, which could adversely affect the value of our securities. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors is authorized to issue from time to time, without further stockholder approval, up to 5.0 million shares of preferred stock in one or more series of preferred stock issuances. Our board of directors may establish the number of shares to be included in each series of preferred stock and determine, as applicable, the voting and other powers, designations, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions for such series of preferred stock. The shares of preferred stock could have preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. We may issue additional preferred stock in ways which may delay, defer or prevent a change in control of the Company without further action by our stockholders. The shares of preferred stock may be issued with voting rights that may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock by increasing the number of outstanding shares having voting rights, and by the creation of class or series voting rights. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, contains additional provisions that may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire or attempt to acquire control of our company. In addition, we are subject to certain provisions of Delaware law that limit, in some cases, our ability to engage in certain business combinations with significant stockholders. These provisions, either alone, or in combination with each other, give our current directors and executive officers the ability to significantly influence the outcome of a proposed acquisition of the Company. These provisions would apply even if an acquisition or other significant corporate transaction was considered beneficial by some of our stockholders. If a change in control or change in management is delayed or prevented by these provisions, the market price of our outstanding securities could be adversely impacted. 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 