Item 1A. Risk Factors Fluctuating demand in the tissue and specialty paper industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The market for tissue and specialty paper products is sensitive to changes in general business conditions, industry capacity, consumer preferences and other factors. Our business exhibits some of this sensitivity particularly in the away-from-home tissue market. Demand is influenced by fluctuations in inventory levels held by customers and consumer preferences. Supply depends primarily on industry capacity and capacity utilization rates. In periods of economic weakness, reduced spending by consumers and businesses results in decreased demand, potentially causing downward price pressure. In particular, the away-from-home market has experienced a recent decline because of the slow down in the travel and restaurant industries and an increase in lay-offs as a result of the current economic downturn. Industry participants may also, at times, add new capacity or increase capacity utilization rates, potentially causing supply to exceed demand and exerting downward price pressure. We have no control over these factors, and they can heavily influence our financial performance. Our operating results depend upon our wood pulp costs. An increase in wood pulp costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Pulp is the principal raw material used in the manufacture of our specialty paper and tissue products. It is purchased in highly competitive, price sensitive markets. We buy a significant amount of pulp and other raw materials either through supply agreements or on the spot market. For fiscal year 2009, we purchased approximately 307,000 metric tons of pulp and recycled fiber at a cost of $189.9 million compared to 315,000 metric tons in fiscal year 2008 at a cost of $182.1 million. When pulp prices increase, we can generally pass most increases in the cost of pulp through to our customers, price increases may not be passed to customers for three months or more after such increases in pulp prices occur. When pulp prices decline, we generally pass most decreases in the cost of pulp through to our tissue and machine-glazed hard roll customers. For example, net sales in our machine-glazed segment decreased 8.0% in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009 because of a decrease in tonnage sold and a decrease in net selling price per ton. Price decreases may not be passed to customers for three months or more after such decreases in pulp occur. In some cases, the lag may be longer or we may not be able to pass through such cost increases at all. In addition, many of our arrangements with away-from-home hard roll customers do not have price escalators relating to wood pulp prices, and consequently, in some instances, we are unable to pass along an increase in pulp costs to these customers. 14 Table of Contents We have agreements with various pulp vendors to purchase various amounts of pulp over the next two years. These commitments require purchases of pulp up to approximately 153,000 metric tons per year at pulp prices below published list prices and allow us to shift a portion of our pulp purchases to the spot market to take advantage of spot market prices when such prices fall. We believe that our current commitment under these arrangements or their equivalent approximates 50% of our current budgeted pulp needs. If upon expiration of these agreements, or upon failure of our suppliers to fulfill their obligations under these agreements, we are unable to obtain wood pulp on terms as favorable as those contained therein, our cost of goods sold may increase and results of operations will be impaired. As a result, our ability to satisfy customer demands and to manufacture products in a cost-effective manner may be materially adversely affected. In addition, the costs and availability of wood pulp have at times fluctuated greatly because of weather, economic global buying behaviors or general industry conditions. From time to time, timber harvesting may be limited by natural events, such as fire, insect infestation, disease, ice storms, excessive rainfall and wind storms or by harvesting restrictions. Production levels within the forest products industry are also affected by such factors as currency fluctuations, duties and finished lumber prices. These factors may increase the price we have to pay to our existing or any new suppliers. In the presence of oversupply in the markets we serve, selling prices of our finished products may not increase in response to raw material price increases. If we are unable to pass any raw material price increases through to our customers, our business financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our energy costs may be higher than we anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We use energy, mainly natural gas, electricity and fuel oil, to operate machinery and to generate steam, which we use in our production process. In the past, energy prices, particularly for natural gas and fuel oil, have increased, with a corresponding effect on our production costs. Although energy prices have been decreasing recently, such costs may increase again in the future. We spent approximately $56.3 million in fiscal year 2009 on electricity, natural gas, oil and coal, compared to approximately $50.7 million in fiscal year 2008. If our energy costs are greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Unforeseen or recurring operational problems and maintenance outages at any of our facilities may cause significant lost production, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our manufacturing process could be affected by operational problems that could impair our production capability. Each of our facilities contains complex and sophisticated machines that are used in our manufacturing process. Disruptions or shutdowns at any of our facilities could be caused by: •maintenance outages to conduct maintenance operations that cannot be performed safely during operations; •prolonged power failures or reductions, including the effect of lightning strikes on our electrical supply; •breakdowns, failures or substandard performance of any of our pulping machines, paper machines, recovery boilers, converting machines, de-inking facility or other equipment; •the effect of noncompliance with material environmental requirements or permits; •shortages of raw materials, a drought or lower than expected rainfall on our water supply; •disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including railroad tracks, bridges, tunnels or roads; 15 Table of Contents •fires, floods, tornados, hurricanes, earthquakes or other catastrophic disasters; •labor difficulties; or •other operational problems. If our facilities are shut down, they may experience prolonged startup periods, regardless of the reason for the shutdown. Those startup periods could range from several days to several weeks, depending on the reason for the shutdown and other factors. Any prolonged disruption in operations of any of our facilities could cause significant lost production, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Labor disputes or increased labor costs could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. As of February 28, 2009, approximately 54% of our active full-time employees were represented by either the United Steelworkers of America or the Independent Paper Workers of Canada through various collective bargaining agreements. The collective bargaining agreements for our facilities expire between October 2009 and June 2013. It is likely that our workers will seek an increase in wages and benefits at the expiration of each of those contracts. Any significant work stoppage in the future or any significant increase in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are dependent upon continued demand from our large customers. If we lost order volumes from any of our largest customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our largest customers account for a significant portion of our sales. Our ten largest customers represented 54.9% of our sales for fiscal year 2007, 51.3% of our sales for fiscal year 2008 and 46.3% of our sales for the fiscal year 2009. Our largest single customer represented 13.4% of our sales in fiscal year 2008 and less than 10% of our sales in fiscal year 2009. Some of our large customers (including four of our ten largest customers) have the capability of producing the products that they currently buy from us. The loss or significant reduction of orders from any of our largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to significant environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and compliance expenditures. The cost of compliance with, and liabilities under, such laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business is subject to a wide range of federal, state, local and foreign general and industry specific environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management and disposal and site remediation. We are also subject to frequent inspections and monitoring by government enforcement authorities. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. From time to time, we incur significant capital and operating expenditures to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations or permit requirements could result in substantial civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring remedial or corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Certain of our operations also require environmental permits or other approvals from governmental authorities, and certain of these permits and approvals are subject to expiration, denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with these permits 16 Table of Contents and approvals, or with other environmental requirements, may subject us to civil or criminal enforcement proceedings that could lead to substantial fines and penalties being imposed against us, orders requiring us to take certain actions or temporary or permanent shutdown of our affected operations. Such enforcement proceedings could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, as an owner and operator of real estate, we may be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for the investigation, remediation and monitoring, as well as associated costs, expenses and third-party damages, including tort liability and natural resource damages, relating to past or present releases of hazardous substances on or from our properties. Liability under these laws may be imposed without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of those substances on our property, may be joint and several, meaning that the entire liability may be imposed on each party without regard to contribution, and retroactive and may not be limited to the value of the property. In addition, we or others may discover new material environmental liabilities, including liabilities related to third-party owned properties that we or our predecessors formerly owned or operated, or at which we or our predecessors have disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of, certain materials. We may be involved in administrative or judicial proceedings and inquiries in the future relating to such environmental matters which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. New environmental laws or regulations (or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement) may be enacted that require significant expenditures by us. If the resulting expenses significantly exceed our expectations, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign requirements concerning safety and health conditions at our manufacturing facilities. We may also be subject to material financial penalties or liabilities for noncompliance with those safety and health requirements, as well as potential business disruption, if any of our facilities or a portion of any facility is required to be temporarily closed as a result of any noncompliance with those requirements. Such financial penalties, liabilities or business disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to implement our business strategies, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our future operating results will depend in part on the extent to which we can successfully implement our business strategies on a cost-effective basis. However, our strategies are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully implement our business strategies, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We may not realize the expected benefits from future acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We have completed several acquisitions in recent years and may seek additional acquisition opportunities in the future. There can be no assurance that we will successfully be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete and finance acquisitions or integrate acquired operations into our existing operations. Acquired operations may not achieve levels of revenues, profitability or productivity comparable with those of our existing operations, or otherwise perform as expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 17 Table of Contents We face many competitors, several of which have greater financial and other resources and our customers may choose their products instead of ours. We face competition in each of our markets from companies that produce the same type of products that we produce or that produce alternative products that customers may use instead of our products. We currently compete in the tissue, converted paper and specialty paper markets. Some of our competitors may be able to produce certain of our products at lower cost than us. Additionally, several of our competitors are large, vertically integrated companies that are more strongly capitalized than us or have more financial resources than us. Any of the foregoing factors may enable our competitors to better withstand periods of declining demand and adverse operating conditions. In addition, changes within the paper industry, including the consolidation of our competitors and consolidation of companies in the distribution channels for our products, have occurred and may continue to occur and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We compete on the basis of product quality and performance, price, service, sales and distribution. Competing in our markets involves the following key risks: •our failure to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences and demographics; •our failure to develop new and improved products; •aggressive pricing by competitors, which may force us to decrease prices in an attempt to maintain market share; •consolidation of our customer base that diminishes our negotiating leverage; •the decision by our large customers to discontinue outsourcing the production of their products to us and to produce their products themselves; •acquisition of a customer by one of our competitors, who thereafter replaces us as a supplier for that customer; and •our failure to control costs. These competitive factors could cause our customers to shift to other products or attempt to produce products themselves. Additional competition could result in lost market share or reduced prices for our products. Excess supply in the markets we serve may reduce the prices we are able to charge for our products. Our competitors may build new machines or may activate idle machines, which would add more capacity to the tissue, specialty paper and converted paper and tissue product markets. Increased production capacity in any of these markets could cause an oversupply resulting in lower market prices for our products and increased competition, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may lose business to competitors who underbid us, and we may be otherwise unable to compete favorably under declining market conditions. Demand for tissue, converted paper and tissue products and specialty paper products tends to be more price-sensitive during declining market conditions than during normal market conditions. When market conditions decline, our competitors are more likely to try to underbid our prices in markets where we enjoy a leading position to target some of our market share in those markets. This competitive behavior could drive market prices down and hinder our ability to pass on increases in raw material costs to our customers. Because of the fixed-cost nature of our business, our overall profitability is sensitive to minor shifts in the balance between supply and demand. Competitors having 18 Table of Contents lower operating costs than we do will have a competitive advantage over us with respect to products that are particularly price-sensitive. The loss of our key managers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future success depends, in significant part, upon the continued services of our management personnel. Our chief executive officer, Russell C. Taylor, has over 25 years experience in the paper and paper products industry. Our senior executives have an average of over 20 years experience in the paper and paper products industry. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management or other key employees, should the need arise. Therefore, the loss of services of one or more of our key senior managers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Exposure to interest rate changes and other types of capital market volatility could increase our financing costs. We require both short-term and long-term financing to fund our operations, including capital expenditures. We are exposed to changes in interest rates with respect to our working capital facility and any new debt offerings. Changes in the capital markets, our credit rating or prevailing interest rates can increase or decrease the cost or availability of financing which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, because some of our operations and sales are in international markets, we could be adversely affected by unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in the political or economic conditions in the United States, Canada and, to a lesser extent, other countries in which our products are sold, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We sell our products in the United States, Canada, Mexico and South America. The economic and political climate of each of these regions has a significant impact on costs, prices and demand for our products in these areas. Changes in regional economies or political stability (including acts of war or terrorism) and changes in trade restrictions or laws (including tax laws and regulations, increased tariffs or other trade barriers) can affect the cost of manufacturing and distributing our products and the price and sales volume of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may develop unexpected legal contingencies, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are, from time to time, party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of our business. These proceedings primarily involve commercial claims, personal injury claims and workers' compensation claims. We are also a defendant in a lawsuit in which the plaintiffs are seeking $250 million in damages in connection with our purchase of American Tissue Co's Neenah, Wisconsin plant in 2002 as described under "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." We cannot predict the outcome of these lawsuits, legal proceedings and claims with certainty. In the event of unexpected future developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolutions of such matters, if unfavorable, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are controlled by Weston Presidio V, L.P. whose interests may not always be aligned with ours. As our controlling owner, Weston Presidio V, L.P. is able to elect a majority of our board of directors, select our management team, determine our corporate and management policies and make 19 Table of Contents decisions relating to fundamental corporate actions. In addition, subject to applicable law, Weston Presidio V, L.P. will be able to control actions to be taken by us, including amendments to our organizational documents and approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers. Additionally, Weston Presidio V, L.P. is in the business of making investments in companies and it, or its affiliates, may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Weston Presidio V, L.P. or its affiliates may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as Weston Presidio V, L.P. continues to own, or hold proxies with respect to, a significant amount of our common stock, even if such amount is less than 50%, Weston Presidio V, L.P. will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our obligations with respect to, our indebtedness, including the $162,000,000 aggregate principal amount of our 93/4% senior secured notes due 2010 that we issued in March 2004, referred to as the Original Notes, the approximately $20 million aggregate principal amount of our 93/4% senior secured notes in conjunction with the CityForest purchase due 2010 that we issued in March 2007, referred to as the Additional Notes, the approximately $40 million aggregate principal amount of our 93/4% senior secured notes in conjunction with the APF Acquisition due 2010 that we issued in July 2008, referred to as the Second Additional Notes (and together with the Original Notes and the Additional Notes, referred to herein as the Notes), or to fund our other liquidity needs will depend on our financial and operational performance which in turn will be affected by general economic conditions and by financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of sales and the amount of proceeds that may be realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Notes. Our significant debt obligations could limit our flexibility in managing our business and expose us to certain risks. We are highly leveraged. As of February 28, 2009, we had $243.1 million of indebtedness outstanding, which includes the Notes and $17.1 million of industrial revenue bonds assumed in connection with the acquisition of CityForest. In addition, we are permitted under our working capital facility and the indenture governing the Notes to incur additional debt, subject to certain limitations. Furthermore, at February 28, 2009, we had $18.5 million outstanding under our working capital facility. Our high degree of leverage may have important consequences to investors, including the following: •we may have difficulty satisfying our obligations under the Notes or other indebtedness and, if we fail to comply with these requirements, an event of default could result; •we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; •covenants relating to our debt may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; •covenants relating to our debt may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •we may be more vulnerable than our competitors to the impact of economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; and •we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage against any less leveraged competitors. 20 Table of Contents If we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, we may have material misstatements in our financial statements and we may not be able to report our financial results in a timely and reliable manner. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to provide a report by management in our Form 10-K on internal control over financial reporting, including management's assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may be unable to provide financial information in a timely and reliable manner. We had a material weakness in our internal control related to the application of GAAP as it relates to complex purchase accounting issues and accounting for derivatives. Such material weakness was remediated as of February 28, 2009. Any such difficulties or failure may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 