Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to the Business and Operations of the Company We may have difficulty managing our growth which may divert resources and limit our ability to successfully expand our operations. We expect to continue to experience significant growth in the amount of our assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Our future profitability will depend in part on our continued ability to grow; however, we may not be able to sustain our historical growth rate or even be able to grow at all. In our first years of operation, we incurred substantial expenses to build our management team and personnel, develop our delivery systems and establish our infrastructure to support our future growth. Our future success will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, and manage a growing number of customer relationships. We may not implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Consequently, our continued growth may place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Any such strain could increase our costs, reduce or eliminate our profitability and reduce the price at which our common shares trade. Changes in interest rates could reduce our income, cash flows and asset values. Our consolidated income and cash flows and the value of our consolidated assets will depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and 8 Table of Contents borrowings. We discuss the effects of interest rate changes on the market value of our portfolio equity and net interest income in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asset and Liability Management.” Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence not only the interest we receive on our loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits, it will also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and our costs in doing so. If the rate of interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans and other investments, our consolidated net interest income, and therefore our consolidated earnings, could decline or we could sustain losses. Our earnings could also decline or we could sustain losses if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. We are subject to lending risks. There are risks inherent in making all loans. These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid and changes in the national economy or the economy of our regional market that impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or the value of the collateral securing those loans. Our loan portfolio contains a high percentage of commercial, construction and commercial mortgage loans in relation to our total loans and total assets. At December 31, 2005, commercial loans were 15.3% of total loans, construction loans were 24.7% of total loans and commercial mortgage loans were 30.2% of total loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial, construction and commercial mortgage loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans would cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. On a consolidated basis, an increase in nonperforming loans could result in an increase in our provision for loan losses or in loan charge-offs and a consequent reduction of our earnings. Lack of seasoning of our loan portfolio may increase the risk of credit defaults in the future. All of the loans in our loan portfolio were originated within the past five years. In general, loans do not begin to show signs of credit deterioration or default until they have been outstanding for some period of time, a process referred to as “seasoning.” As a result, a portfolio of older loans will usually behave more predictably than a portfolio of recently originated loans. Because our loan portfolio is relatively unseasoned, the current level of delinquencies and defaults may be below the level that will prevail when the portfolio becomes more seasoned. Until our portfolio becomes more seasoned, we must rely in part on the historical loan loss experience of other financial institutions and our management’s past experience in determining the allowance for loan and lease losses, which may result in our having inadequate reserves. Because most of our loans were originated relatively recently, our loan portfolio does not provide an adequate history of loan losses for management to rely upon in establishing its allowance for loan and lease losses. We therefore rely to a significant extent upon other financial institutions’ histories of loan losses and their allowance for loan and lease losses, as well as management’s estimates based on their experience in the banking industry, when determining our loss allowance. The history of loan and lease losses, the reserving policies of other financial institutions and management’s judgment may not result in reserving policies that will be adequate for our consolidated business and operations. 9 Table of Contents Our operations are concentrated in the Philadelphia-Wilmington metropolitan area. Our loan activities are largely based in the Philadelphia-Wilmington metropolitan area. To a lesser extent, our deposit base is also generated from this area. As a result, our consolidated financial performance depends largely upon economic conditions in this area. Adverse local economic conditions could cause us to experience an increase in loan delinquencies, a reduction in deposits, an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, all of which would adversely affect our consolidated profitability. We depend to a significant extent upon wholesale and brokered deposits to satisfy funding needs. We have relied to a significant extent on funds provided by wholesale and brokered deposits to support the growth of our loan portfolio. These funding sources amounted to 33.8% of our total deposits at December 31, 2005. If we are not successful in obtaining wholesale funding or increasing our current deposit base to a level commensurate with our funding needs, we may be unable to continue our growth, or could experience contraction in our total assets. Moreover, to the extent that we are unable to match the maturities of the interest rates we pay for wholesale and brokered funds to the maturities of the loans we make using those funds, increases in the interest rates we pay for such funds could decrease our consolidated net interest income. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive market and geographic area. We will face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors, including commercial banks and their holding companies, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, factoring companies, insurance companies and money market mutual funds. Competition for financial services in the Philadelphia-Wilmington metropolitan area, which is our principal service area, is very strong. This geographic area includes offices of many of the largest financial institutions in the nation. Most of those competing institutions have much greater financial and marketing resources than we have and, because we are a relatively newly-formed entity, far greater name recognition. Due to their size, many of our competitors can achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing structures for those products and services. Moreover, because we are smaller and less well-established, we may have to pay higher rates on our deposits or offer more free or reduced-cost services in order to attract and retain customers. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as federally-insured and regulated financial institutions such as ours. As a result, those competitors may be able to access funding and provide various services more easily or at less cost than we can. Our affinity group marketing strategy has been adopted by other institutions with which we compete. As a result of the high costs encountered by Internet banks in acquiring customers through traditional marketing and advertising or for other reasons, several online banking operations as well as the online banking programs of conventional banks have instituted affinity group marketing strategies similar to ours. As a consequence, we have encountered competition in this area and anticipate that we will continue to do so in the future. This competition may, on a consolidated basis, increase our costs, reduce our revenues or revenue growth or, because we are a relatively new banking operation without the name recognition of other, more established banking operations, make it difficult for us to compete effectively in obtaining affinity group relationships. 10 Table of Contents Our lending limit may adversely affect our competitiveness. Our regulatory lending limit as of December 31, 2005 to any one customer or related group of customers was $19.1 million. Our lending limit is substantially smaller than those of most financial institutions with which we compete. While we believe that our lending limit is sufficient for our targeted market of small to mid-size businesses, individuals and affinity group members, it may affect our ability to attract or maintain customers or to compete with other financial institutions. Moreover, to the extent that we incur losses and do not obtain additional capital, our lending limit, which depends upon the amount of our capital, will decrease. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit use of properties we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. As a financial institution whose principal medium for delivery of banking services is the internet, we are subject to risks particular to that medium. We operate an independent Internet bank, as distinguished from the Internet banking service of an established conventional bank. Independent Internet banks often have found it difficult to achieve profitability and revenue growth. Several factors contribute to the unique problems that Internet banks face. These include concerns for the security of personal information, the absence of personal relationships between bankers and customers, the absence of loyalty to a conventional hometown bank, the customer’s difficulty in understanding and assessing the substance and financial strength of an Internet bank, a lack of confidence in the likelihood of success and permanence of Internet banks and many individuals’ unwillingness to trust their personal assets to a relatively new technological medium such as the Internet. As a result, many potential customers may be unwilling to establish a relationship with us. Conventional financial institutions, in growing numbers, are offering the option of Internet banking and financial services to their existing and prospective customers. The public may perceive conventional financial institutions as being safer, more responsive, more comfortable to deal with and more accountable as providers of their banking and financial services, including their Internet banking services. We may not be able to offer Internet banking and financial services and personal relationship characteristics that have sufficient advantages over the Internet banking and financial services and other characteristics of established conventional financial institutions to enable us to compete successfully. Moreover, both the Internet and the financial services industry are undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving the ability to serve customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to implement effectively new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. 11 Table of Contents Our operations may be interrupted if our network or computer systems, or those of our providers, fail. Because we deliver our products and services over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, our operations depend on our ability, as well as that of our service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against interruptions in service due to damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins, computer hacking or similar catastrophic events. Our operations also depend upon our ability to replace a third-party provider if it experiences difficulties that interrupt our operations or if an operationally essential third-party service terminates. Service interruptions to customers may adversely affect our ability to obtain or retain customers and could result in regulatory sanctions. Moreover, if a customer were unable to access his or her account or complete a financial transaction due to a service interruption, we could be subject to a claim by the customer for his or her loss. While our accounts and other agreements contain disclaimers of liability for these kinds of losses, we cannot predict the outcome of litigation if a customer were to make a claim against us. Security concerns may adversely affect internet banking. A significant barrier to on-line financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. The systems we use rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms used to protect customer transaction data. If we, or another provider of financial services through the Internet, were to suffer damage from a security breach, public acceptance and use of the Internet as a medium for financial transactions could suffer. Any security breach could deter potential customers or cause existing customers to leave, thereby impairing our ability to grow and maintain profitability and, possibly, our ability to continue delivering our products and services through the Internet. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent security breaches, these measures may not be successful. We outsource many essential services to third-party providers who may terminate their agreements with us, resulting in interruptions to our banking operations. We obtain essential technological and customer services support for the systems we use from third-party providers. We outsource our check processing, check imaging, electronic bill payment, statement rendering, internal audit and other services to third party vendors. For a description of these services, you should read “—Other Operations—Third Party Service Providers.” Our agreements with each service provider are generally cancelable without cause by either party upon specified notice periods. If one of our third-party service providers terminates its agreement with us and we are unable to replace it with another service provider, our operations may be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our earnings could decrease, we could experience losses and we could lose customers. We may be affected by government regulation. We are subject to extensive federal and state banking regulation and supervision. The regulations are intended primarily to protect our depositors’ funds, the federal deposit insurance funds and the safety and soundness of the Bank, not our shareholders. Regulatory requirements affect lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. A failure by either the Bank or us to meet minimum capital requirements will result in the imposition of limitations on our operations and could, if capital levels drop significantly, result in our being required to cease operations. Changes in governing law, regulations or regulatory practices could impose additional costs on us or impair our ability to obtain deposits or make loans and, as a consequence, our consolidated revenues and profitability. 12 Table of Contents As a Delaware-chartered bank whose depositors and financial services customers are located in several states, the Bank may be subject to additional licensure requirements or other regulation of its activities by state regulatory authorities and laws outside of Delaware. If the Bank’s compliance with licensure requirements or other regulation becomes overly burdensome, we may seek to convert its state charter to a federal charter in order to gain the benefits of federal preemption of some of those laws and regulations. Conversion of the Bank to a federal charter will require the prior approval of the relevant federal bank regulatory authorities, which we may not be able to obtain. Moreover, even if we obtain approval, there could be a significant period of time between our application and receipt of the approval, and/or any approval we do obtain may be subject to burdensome conditions or restrictions. Our success will depend on our ability to retain Betsy Z. Cohen, our Chief Executive Officer. We believe that our future success will depend upon the expertise of, and customer relationships established by Betsy Z. Cohen, our chief executive officer. If Mrs. Cohen were to become unavailable for any reason, or if we are unable to hire highly qualified and experienced personnel with similar relationships to replace her, our ability to attract deposits or loan customers may be materially adversely affected. We do not have key man life insurance on Mrs. Cohen. Regulation Under Banking Law We are extensively regulated under both federal and state banking law. We are a Delaware corporation and a registered bank holding company that is also a registered financial holding company. We are subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Reserve and the Delaware State Bank Commissioner. The Bank, as a state-chartered depository institution, is supervised by the Delaware State Bank Commissioner, as well as the Federal Deposit Insurance Company, or FDIC. The Bank is subject to requirements and restrictions under federal and state law, including requirements to maintain reserves against deposits, restrictions on the types and amount of loans that may be made and the interest that may be charged, and limitations on the types of investments that may be made and the types of services that may be offered. Various consumer laws and regulations also affect the Bank’s operations. Federal Regulation As a bank holding company, we must file annual reports with the Federal Reserve, provide any additional information that the Federal Reserve may request, and are subject to regular examination by it. Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, or GLBA, made extensive changes in the rules governing the financial services industry, particularly banking. It eliminated many of the restrictions placed upon the activities of bank holding companies and established a new type of bank holding company called a financial holding company. We were registered as a financial holding company in 2004. Financial holding companies are granted the authority to engage in “financial activities” that are beyond those of conventional bank holding companies and to affiliate with entities engaged in financial activities. While the Federal Reserve (together with the Treasury Secretary) is authorized to determine what a financial activity is, the GLBA provides that financial activities include: • lending, investing for others or safeguarding money or securities; • Underwriting insurance and annuities as principal, agent or broker; 13 Table of Contents • providing financial, investment or economic advisory services; • issuing or selling interests in pools of assets permissible for a bank to hold directly; • engaging in any activity that the Federal Reserve found before the act to be a proper incident to banking; and • insurance portfolio investing. The GLBA directs the Federal Reserve to define the following activities as financial in nature and the extent to which they are financial in nature: • lending, exchanging, transferring, investing for others or safeguarding financial assets other than money or securities; and • arranging financial transactions for the account of third parties. The banking and nonfinancial subsidiaries of a financial holding company may not cross sell each other’s products and services where the financial holding company owns the non-financial subsidiary through the financial holding company’s merchant banking authority or through its insurance subsidiary under its investment portfolio authority. However, insurance products or services may be marketed by Internet websites or statement inserts with Federal Reserve approval if there is no illegal tying arrangement. A bank also may not engage in a “covered transaction” with a controlled affiliate of a financial holding company. A “covered transaction” includes loans to, investments in, purchases of assets from or guaranteeing loans of the affiliate, or accepting securities of the affiliate as collateral for a loan. Transactions with Affiliates. There are various legal restrictions on the extent to which a bank holding company and certain of its nonbank subsidiaries can borrow or otherwise obtain credit from banking subsidiaries or engage in certain other transactions with or involving those banking subsidiaries. In general, these restrictions require that any such transactions must be on terms that would ordinarily be offered to unaffiliated entities and secured by designated amounts of specified collateral. Transactions between a banking subsidiary and its holding company or any nonbank subsidiary are limited to 10% of the banking subsidiary’s capital stock and surplus and, as to the holding company and all such nonbank subsidiaries in the aggregate, up to 20% of the bank’s capital stock and surplus. Regulatory Restrictions on Dividends. It is the policy of the Federal Reserve that bank holding companies should pay cash dividends on common stock only out of income available over the past year and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization’s expected future needs and financial condition. The policy provides that bank holding companies should not maintain a level of cash dividends that undermines the bank holding company’s ability to serve as a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries. See “—Holding Company Liability,” below. Federal Reserve policies also affect the ability of a bank holding company to pay in kind dividends. Various federal and state statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends that subsidiary banks can pay to their holding companies without regulatory approval. The Bank is also subject to limitations under state law regarding the payment of dividends, including the requirement that dividends may be paid only out of net profits. See “—Delaware Regulation.” In addition to these explicit limitations, federal and state regulatory agencies are authorized to prohibit a banking subsidiary or bank holding company from engaging in an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Depending upon the circumstances, the agencies could take the position that paying a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. Because we are a legal entity separate and distinct from the Bank, our right to participate in the distribution of assets of the Bank, or any other subsidiary, upon the Bank’s or the subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization will be subject to the prior claims of the Bank’s or subsidiary’s creditors. In the event of a liquidation or other resolution of an insured depository institution, the claims of depositors and other general or subordinated creditors have priority of payment over the claims of holders of any obligation of the institution’s holding company or any of its shareholders or creditors. 14 Table of Contents Holding Company Liability. Under Federal Reserve policy, a bank holding company is expected to act as a source of financial strength to each of its banking subsidiaries and commit resources to their support. Such support may be required at times when, absent this Federal Reserve policy, a holding company may not be inclined to provide it. As discussed below under “—Prompt Corrective Action,” a bank holding company in certain circumstances could be required to guarantee the capital plan of an undercapitalized banking subsidiary. In the event of a bank holding company’s bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, the trustee will be deemed to have assumed, and is required to cure immediately, any deficit under any commitment by the debtor holding company to any of the federal banking agencies to maintain the capital of an insured depository institution, and any claim for breach of such obligation will generally have priority over most other unsecured claims. Capital Adequacy. The Federal Reserve and FDIC have issued standards for measuring capital adequacy for bank holding companies and banks. These standards are designed to provide risk-based capital guidelines and to incorporate a consistent framework. The risk-based guidelines are used by the agencies in their examination and supervisory process, as well as in the analysis of any applications to them to obtain approvals, including our applications for approval of the reorganization and for registration as a financial holding company. As discussed under “—Prompt Corrective Action,” a failure to meet minimum capital requirements could subject us or the Bank to a variety of enforcement remedies available to federal regulatory authorities, including, in the most severe cases, termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and placing the Bank into conservatorship or receivership. In general, the risk-related standards require banks and bank holding companies to maintain capital based on “risk-adjusted” assets so that the categories of assets with potentially higher credit risk will require more capital backing than categories with lower credit risk. In addition, banks and bank holding companies are required to maintain capital to support off-balance sheet activities such as loan commitments. The standards classify total capital for this risk-based measure into two tiers, referred to as Tier 1 and Tier 2. Tier 1 capital consists of common stockholders’ equity, certain non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less certain adjustments. Tier 2 capital consists of the allowance for loan and lease losses (within certain limits), perpetual preferred stock not included in Tier 1, hybrid capital instruments, term subordinate debt, and intermediate-term preferred stock, less certain adjustments. Together, these two categories of capital comprise a bank’s or bank holding company’s “qualifying total capital.” However, capital that qualifies as Tier 2 capital is limited in amount to 100% of Tier 1 capital in testing compliance with the total risk-based capital minimum standards. Banks and bank holding companies must have a minimum ratio of 8% of qualifying total capital to risk-weighted assets, and a minimum ratio of 4% of qualifying Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. At December 31, 2005, we and the Bank had a total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratios of 18.69% and 17.20%, respectively, and Tier 1 capital to risk-adjusted assets ratios of 17.94% and 16.46%, respectively. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The principal objective of these guidelines is to constrain the maximum degree to which a financial institution can leverage its equity capital base. It is intended to be used as a supplement to the risk-based capital guidelines. These guidelines provide for a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to adjusted average total assets of 3% for bank holding companies that meet certain specified criteria, including those having the highest regulatory rating. Other financial institutions generally must maintain a leverage ratio of at least 3% plus 100 to 200 basis points. The guidelines also provide that financial institutions experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above minimum supervisory levels, without significant reliance on intangible assets. Furthermore, the banking agencies have indicated that they may consider other indicia of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. At December 31, 2005, we and the Bank had leverage ratios of 15.90% and 14.65%, respectively. 15 Table of Contents The federal banking agencies’ standards provide that concentration of credit risk and certain risks arising from nontraditional activities, as well as an institution’s ability to manage these risks, are important factors to be taken into account by them in assessing a financial institution’s overall capital adequacy. The risk-based capital standards also provide for the consideration of interest rate risk in the agency’s determination of a financial institution’s capital adequacy. The standards require financial institutions to effectively measure and monitor their interest rate risk and to maintain capital adequate for that risk. These standards can be expected to be amended from time to time. Prompt Corrective Action. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, federal banking agencies must take prompt supervisory and regulatory actions against undercapitalized depository institutions. Depository institutions are assigned one of five capital categories—”well capitalized,” “adequately capitalized,” “undercapitalized,” “significantly undercapitalized,” and “critically undercapitalized”—and subjected to differential regulation corresponding to the capital category within which the institution falls. Under certain circumstances, a well capitalized, adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution may be treated as if the institution were in the next lower capital category. As we describe in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources,” an institution is deemed to be well capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.0% and a leverage ratio of at least 5.0% . An institution is adequately capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.0%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 4.0% and a leverage ratio of at least 4.0%. At December 31, 2005, our total risk-based capital ratio was 18.69%, our Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 17.94% and our leverage ratio was 15.90%, while the Bank’s ratios were 17.20%, 16.46% and 14.65%, respectively. A depository institution is generally prohibited from making capital distributions (including paying dividends) or paying management fees to a holding company if the institution would thereafter be undercapitalized. Adequately capitalized institutions cannot accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits except with a waiver from the FDIC, and are subject to restrictions on the interest rates that can be paid on such deposits. Undercapitalized institutions may not accept, renew, or roll over brokered deposits. As of December 31, 2005, both we and the Bank were “well capitalized” within the meaning of the regulatory categories. Banking regulatory agencies are permitted or, in certain cases, required to take action with respect to institutions falling within one of the three undercapitalized categories. Depending on the level of an institution’s capital, the agency’s corrective powers include, among other things: • prohibiting the payment of principal and interest on subordinated debt; • prohibiting the holding company from making distributions without prior regulatory approval; • placing limits on asset growth and restrictions on activities; • placing additional restrictions on transactions with affiliates; • restricting the interest rate the institution may pay on deposits; • prohibiting the institution from accepting deposits from correspondent banks; and • in the most severe cases, appointing a conservator or receiver for the institution. A banking institution that is undercapitalized must submit a capital restoration plan. This plan will not be accepted unless, among other things, the banking institution’s holding company guarantees the plan up to an agreed-upon amount. Any guarantee by a depository institution’s holding company is entitled to a priority of payment in bankruptcy. Failure to implement a capital plan, or failure to have a capital restoration plan accepted, may result in a conservatorship or receivership. Community Reinvestment Act. Under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, which we refer to as the CRA, a federally-insured institution has a continuing and affirmative obligation to help meet the credit 16 Table of Contents needs of its community, including low-and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution. The CRA requires the board of directors of federally-insured institutions, such as the Bank, to adopt a CRA statement for its assessment area that, among other things, describes its efforts to help meet community credit needs and the specific types of credit that the institution is willing to extend. The CRA further requires that a record be kept of whether a financial institution meets its community’s credit needs, which record will be taken into account when evaluating applications for, among other things, domestic branches and mergers and acquisitions. The regulations promulgated pursuant to the CRA contain three evaluation tests: • a lending test which compares the institution’s market share of loans in low-and moderate-income areas to its market share of loans in its entire service area and the percentage of the institution’s outstanding loans to low-and moderate-income areas or individuals; • a services test, which evaluates the provision of services that promote the availability of credit to low-and moderate-income areas; and • an investment test, which evaluates an institution’s record of investments in organizations designed to foster community development, small-and minority-owned businesses and affordable housing lending, including state and local government housing or revenue bonds. The Bank was examined for CRA compliance in 2002 and received a “satisfactory” rating. Control Acquisitions. The Change in Bank Control Act, which we refer to as the CBCA, prohibits a person or group of persons from acquiring “control” of a bank holding company unless the Federal Reserve has been notified and has not objected to the transaction. Under a rebuttable presumption established by the Federal Reserve, the acquisition of 10% or more of any class of voting securities of a bank holding company is presumed to be an acquisition of control of the holding company if: • the bank holding company has a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or • no other person will own or control a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the transaction. An acquisition of 25% or more of the outstanding shares of any class of voting securities of a bank holding company is conclusively deemed to be the acquisition of control. In determining percentage ownership for a person, Federal Reserve policy is to count securities obtainable by that person through option or warrant exercise, even if the options or warrants have not then vested. Insurance of Deposit Accounts. The Bank’s deposits are insured to the maximum extent permitted by the Bank Insurance Fund, or BIF. As the insurer, the FDIC is authorized to conduct examinations of, and to require reporting by, FDIC-insured institutions. It also may prohibit any FDIC-insured institution from engaging in any activity the FDIC determines by regulation or order to pose a serious threat to the FDIC. The FDIC also has the authority to initiate enforcement actions against banks. The FDIC has implemented a risk-based assessment system under which FDIC-insured depository institutions pay annual premiums at rates based on their risk classification. A bank’s risk classification is based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the bank poses to the regulators. Institutions assigned to higher risk classifications (that is, institutions that pose a greater risk of loss to the BIF) pay assessments at higher rates than institutions that pose a lower risk. A decrease in a bank’s capital ratios or the occurrence of events that have an adverse effect on a bank’s asset quality, management, earnings or liquidity could result in a substantial increase in deposit insurance premiums paid by a bank, which would adversely affect earnings. In addition, the FDIC can impose special assessments in certain instances. The range of assessments in the risk-based system is a function of the reserve ratio in the BIF. The current range of BIF assessments is between 0% and 0.27% of deposits because the BIF reserve ratio was greater than 1.25% when the ratios were set. In 2002, the BIF reserve ratio fell below 1.25%, creating the possibility that the FDIC would raise assessment rates, but in 2003 the ratio was slightly above 1.25%. At December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, the Bank’s BIF 17 Table of Contents assessment rate was 0%. If the BIF reserve ratio were to fall below 1.25% again, the FDIC would consider whether to levy higher assessments. Congress has also in the past considered proposals that would increase assessments on certain types of rapidly growing institutions. Federal Deposit Insurance Reform. On February 8, 2006, President Bush signed the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (“FDIRA”). The FDIC must adopt rules implementing the various provisions of FDIRA by November 5, 2006. Among other things, FDIRA changes the Federal deposit insurance system by: • raising the coverage level for retirement accounts to $250,000; • indexing deposit insurance coverage levels for inflation beginning in 2012; • prohibiting undercapitlzed financial institutions from accepting employee benefit plan deposits; • merging the Bank Insurance Fund and Savings Association Insurance Fund into a new Deposit Insurance Fund (the “DIF”); and • providing credits to financial institutions that capitalized the FDIC prior to 1996 to offset future assessment premiums. FDIRA also authorizes the FDIC to revise the current risk-based assessment system, subject to notice and comments, and caps the amount of the DIF at 1.50% of domestic deposits. The FDIC must issue cash dividends, awarded on a historical basis, for the amount of the DIF over the 1.50% ratio. Additionally, if the DIF exceeds 1.35% of domestic deposits at year-end, the FDIC must issue cash dividends, awarded on a historical basis, for half of the amount of the excess. Loans-to-One Borrower. Generally, a bank may not make a loan or extend credit to a single or related group of borrowers in excess of 15% of its unimpaired capital and surplus. An additional amount may be lent, equal to 10% of unimpaired capital and surplus, if such loan is secured by specified collateral, generally readily marketable collateral (which is defined to include certain financial instruments and bullion) and real estate. At December 31, 2005, the Bank’s limit on loans-to-one borrower was $19.1 million ($31.9 million for secured loans). At December 31, 2005, the Bank’s largest aggregate outstanding balance of loans-to-one borrower was $17.6 million, which was secured. As a general policy, the Bank seeks to limit secured loans-to-one borrower to a maximum of $10.0 million. Transactions with Related Parties. The Bank’s authority to engage in transactions with related parties or “affiliates” (that is, any company that controls or is under common control with an institution, including us and our non-bank subsidiaries) is limited by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation W promulgated thereunder. Section 23A restricts the aggregate amount of covered transactions with any individual affiliate to 10% of the Bank’s capital and surplus. At December 31, 2005, we did not owe anything to the Bank. The aggregate amount of covered transactions with all affiliates is limited to 20% of the Bank’s capital and surplus. Certain transactions with affiliates are required to be secured by collateral in an amount and of a type described in Section 23A and the purchase of low quality assets from affiliates is generally prohibited. Section 23B generally provides that certain transactions with affiliates, including loans and asset purchases, must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that are substantially the same or at least as favorable to the institution as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with non-affiliated companies. Enforcement. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC has the authority to bring actions against a bank and all affiliated parties, including stockholders, attorneys, appraisers and accountants, who knowingly or recklessly participate in wrongful action likely to have an adverse effect on the bank. Formal enforcement action may range from the issuance of a capital directive or cease and desist order to removal of officers and/or directors to institution of receivership, conservatorship or termination of deposit insurance. Civil penalties cover a wide range of violations and can amount to $25,000 per day, or even $1 million per day in especially egregious cases. Federal law also establishes criminal penalties for certain violations. 18 Table of Contents Standards for Safety and Soundness. The Federal Deposit Insurance Act requires each federal banking agency to prescribe for all insured depository institutions standards relating to, among other things, internal controls, information and audit systems, loan documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate risk exposure, asset growth, and compensation, fees, benefits and such other operational and managerial standards as the agency deems appropriate. The federal banking agencies have adopted final regulations and Interagency Guidelines Prescribing Standards for Safety and Soundness to implement these safety and soundness standards. The guidelines set forth the safety and soundness standards that the federal banking agencies use to identify and address problems at insured depository institutions before capital becomes impaired. If the appropriate federal banking agency determines that an institution fails to meet any standard prescribed by the guidelines, the agency may require the institution to submit to the agency an acceptable plan to achieve compliance with the standard. Federal Reserve System. Federal Reserve regulations require banks to maintain non-interest bearing reserves against their transaction accounts (primarily NOW and regular checking accounts). Federal Reserve regulations generally required for 2004 that reserves be maintained against aggregate transaction accounts as follows: for accounts aggregating $45.4 million or less (subject to adjustment by the Federal Reserve), the reserve requirement is 3%; and, for accounts aggregating greater than $45.4 million, the reserve requirement is $1.164 million plus 10% (subject to adjustment by the Federal Reserve between 8% and 14%) of that portion of total transaction accounts in excess of $45.4 million. The first $6.6 million of otherwise reservable balances (subject to adjustments by the Federal Reserve) are exempt from the reserve requirements. At December 31, 2005, the Bank met these requirements. USA Patriot Act. The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act was intended to detect, and prevent, the use of the United States’ financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing activities. The Act requests financial institutions, such as banks, to prohibit correspondent accounts with foreign shell banks, to establish an anti-money laundering program that includes employee training and an independent audit, to follow minimum standards for identifying customers and maintaining records of the identification information, and to make regular comparisons of customers against agency lists of suspected terrorists, terrorist organizations and money launderers. Delaware Regulation General. As a Delaware bank holding company, we are subject to the supervision of and periodic examination by the Delaware State Bank Commissioner and must comply with the reporting requirements of the Delaware State Bank Commissioner. The Bank, as a banking corporation chartered under Delaware law, is subject to comprehensive regulation by the Delaware State Bank Commissioner, including regulation of the conduct of its internal affairs, the extent and exercise of its banking powers, the issuance of capital notes or debentures, any mergers, consolidations or conversions, its lending and investment practices and its revolving and closed-end credit practices. The Bank also is subject to periodic examination by the Delaware State Bank Commissioner and must comply with the reporting requirements of the Delaware State Bank Commissioner. The Delaware State Bank Commissioner has the power to issue cease and desist orders prohibiting unsafe and unsound practices in the conduct of a banking business. Limitation on Dividends. Under Delaware banking law, the Bank’s directors may declare dividends on common or preferred stock of so much of its net profits as they judge expedient, but the Bank must, before the declaration of a dividend on common stock from net profits, carry 50% of its net profits of the preceding period for which the dividend is paid to its surplus fund until its surplus fund amounts to 50% of its capital stock and thereafter must carry 25% of its net profits for the preceding period for which the dividend is paid to its surplus fund until its surplus fund amounts to 100% of its capital stock. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 