Item 1A. Risk Factors. We may have difficulty managing our growth which may divert resources and limit our ability to expand our operations successfully. We expect to continue to experience significant growth in the amount of our assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Our future profitability will depend in part on our continued ability to grow; however, we may not be able to sustain our historical growth rate or even be able to grow at all. Our future success will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, and manage a growing number of customer relationships. We may not implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Consequently, our continued growth may place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Any such strain could increase our costs, reduce or eliminate our profitability and reduce the price at which our common shares trade. 18 Table of Contents Changes in interest rates could reduce our income, cash flows and asset values. Our consolidated income and cash flows and the value of our consolidated assets will depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates we earn on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. We discuss the effects of interest rate changes on the market value of our portfolios equity and net interest income in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asset and Liability Management.” Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence not only the interest we receive on our loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits, it will also affect our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and our costs in doing so. If the rate of interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans and other investments, our consolidated net interest income, and therefore our consolidated earnings, could decline or we could sustain losses. Our earnings could also decline or we could sustain losses if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. We are subject to lending risks. There are risks inherent in making all loans. These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid and changes in the national economy or the economy of our regional market that impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or the value of the collateral securing those loans. Our loan portfolio contains a high percentage of commercial, construction and commercial mortgage loans in relation to our total loans and total assets. At December 31, 2007, commercial loans were 25.27% of total loans, construction loans were 23.91% of total loans and commercial mortgage loans were 28.69% of total loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial, construction and commercial mortgage loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans would cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans. While there have been unprecedented disruptions in the credit markets beginning in the second half of 2007, and we have experienced some increase in loan delinquencies, these disruptions have not had a material effect on us to date. We cannot assure you, however, that we will not experience further increases in delinquencies and defaults or that any such increases will not be material. On a consolidated basis, an increase in nonperforming loans could result in an increase in our provision for loan losses or in loan charge-offs and a consequent reduction of our earnings. Our operations are concentrated in the Philadelphia-Wilmington metropolitan area. Our loan activities are largely based in the Philadelphia-Wilmington metropolitan area. To a lesser extent, our deposit base is also generated from this area. As a result, our consolidated financial performance depends largely upon economic conditions in this area. Adverse local economic conditions could cause us to experience an increase in loan delinquencies, a reduction in deposits, an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, all of which would adversely affect our consolidated profitability. We depend to a significant extent upon wholesale and brokered deposits to satisfy funding needs. We have relied to a significant extent on funds provided by wholesale and brokered deposits to support the growth of our loan portfolio. These funding sources amounted to 30.6% of our total deposits at December 31, 2007 a decrease from 43.6% of total deposits at December 31, 2006. If we are not successful in obtaining wholesale funding, we may be unable to continue our growth, or could experience contraction in our total assets. In addition, to the extent that we are unable to match the maturities of the interest rates we pay for wholesale and brokered funds to the maturities of the loans we make using those funds, increases in the interest rates we pay for 19 Table of Contents such funds could decrease our consolidated net interest income. Moreover, if the Bank ceases to be categorized as “well capitalized” under banking regulations, it will be prohibited from accepting, renewing or rolling over brokered deposits except with a waiver from FDIC. Although the Bank is currently deemed to be well capitalized, a failure to continue to be well capitalized could also hurt our growth or cause our total assets to contract. Our future success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in a highly competitive market and geographic area. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors, including commercial banks and their holding companies, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, consumer finance companies, factoring companies, insurance companies and money market mutual funds. Competition for financial services in the Philadelphia-Wilmington metropolitan area, which is our principal service area, is very strong. This geographic area includes offices of many of the largest financial institutions in the nation. Most of those competing institutions have much greater financial and marketing resources than we have and, because we are a relatively newly-formed entity, far greater name recognition. Due to their size, many of our competitors can achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing structures for those products and services. Moreover, because we are smaller and less well-established, we may have to pay higher rates on our deposits or offer more free or reduced-cost services in order to attract and retain customers. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as federally-insured and regulated financial institutions such as ours. As a result, those competitors may be able to access funding and provide various services more easily or at less cost than we can. Our affinity group marketing strategy has been adopted by other institutions with which we compete. Several online banking operations as well as the online banking programs of conventional banks have instituted affinity group marketing strategies similar to ours. As a consequence, we have encountered competition in this area and anticipate that we will continue to do so in the future. This competition may increase our costs, reduce our revenues or revenue growth or, because we are a relatively new banking operation without the name recognition of other, more established banking operations, make it difficult for us to compete effectively in obtaining affinity group relationships. Our lending limit may adversely affect our competitiveness. Our regulatory lending limit as of December 31, 2007 to any one customer or related group of customers was $20.3 million for unsecured loans and $33.8 million for secured loans. Our lending limit is substantially smaller than those of most financial institutions with which we compete. While we believe that our lending limit is sufficient for our targeted market of small to mid-size businesses, individuals and affinity group members, it may affect our ability to attract or maintain customers or to compete with other financial institutions. Moreover, to the extent that we incur losses and do not obtain additional capital, our lending limit, which depends upon the amount of our capital, will decrease. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may 20 Table of Contents materially limit use of properties we acquire through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. As a financial institution whose principal medium for delivery of banking services is the internet, we are subject to risks particular to that medium. We operate an independent Internet bank, as distinguished from the Internet banking service of an established conventional bank. Independent Internet banks often have found it difficult to achieve profitability and revenue growth. Several factors contribute to the unique problems that Internet banks face. These include concerns for the security of personal information, the absence of personal relationships between bankers and customers, the absence of loyalty to a conventional hometown bank, the customer’s difficulty in understanding and assessing the substance and financial strength of an Internet bank, a lack of confidence in the likelihood of success and permanence of Internet banks and many individuals’ unwillingness to trust their personal assets to a relatively new technological medium such as the Internet. As a result, many potential customers may be unwilling to establish a relationship with us. Conventional financial institutions, in growing numbers, are offering the option of Internet banking and financial services to their existing and prospective customers. The public may perceive conventional financial institutions as being safer, more responsive, more comfortable to deal with and more accountable as providers of their banking and financial services, including their Internet banking services. We may not be able to offer Internet banking and financial services and personal relationship characteristics that have sufficient advantages over the Internet banking and financial services and other characteristics of established conventional financial institutions to enable us to compete successfully. Moreover, both the Internet and the financial services industry are undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving the ability to serve customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to implement effectively new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Our operations may be interrupted if our network or computer systems, or those of our providers, fail. Because we deliver our products and services over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, our operations depend on our ability, as well as that of our service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against interruptions in service due to damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins, computer hacking or similar catastrophic events. Our operations also depend upon our ability to replace a third-party provider if it experiences difficulties that interrupt our operations or if an operationally essential third-party service terminates. Service interruptions to customers may adversely affect our ability to obtain or retain customers and could result in regulatory sanctions. Moreover, if a customer were unable to access his or her account or complete a financial transaction due to a service interruption, we could be subject to a claim by the customer for his or her loss. While our accounts and other agreements contain disclaimers of liability for these kinds of losses, we cannot predict the outcome of litigation if a customer were to make a claim against us. Security concerns may adversely affect internet banking. A significant barrier to on-line financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. The systems we use rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of 21 Table of Contents cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms used to protect customer transaction data. If we, or another provider of financial services through the Internet, were to suffer damage from a security breach, public acceptance and use of the Internet as a medium for financial transactions could suffer. Any security breach could deter potential customers or cause existing customers to leave, thereby impairing our ability to grow and maintain profitability and, possibly, our ability to continue delivering our products and services through the Internet. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent security breaches, these measures may not be successful. We outsource many essential services to third-party providers who may terminate their agreements with us, resulting in interruptions to our banking operations. We obtain essential technological and customer services support for the systems we use from third-party providers. We outsource our check processing, check imaging, electronic bill payment, statement rendering, internal audit and other services to third party vendors. For a description of these services, you should read Item 1, “Business—Other Operations—Third Party Service Providers.” Our agreements with each service provider are generally cancelable without cause by either party upon specified notice periods. If one of our third-party service providers terminates its agreement with us and we are unable to replace it with another service provider, our operations may be interrupted. If an interruption were to continue for a significant period of time, our earnings could decrease, we could experience losses and we could lose customers. We may be affected by government regulation. We are subject to extensive federal and state banking regulation and supervision. The regulations are intended primarily to protect our depositors’ funds, the federal deposit insurance funds and the safety and soundness of the Bank, not our shareholders. Regulatory requirements affect lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. A failure by either the Bank or us to meet regulatory capital requirements will result in the imposition of limitations on our operations and could, if capital levels drop significantly, result in our being required to cease operations. Changes in governing law, regulations or regulatory practices could impose additional costs on us or impair our ability to obtain deposits or make loans and, as a consequence, our consolidated revenues and profitability. As a Delaware-chartered bank whose depositors and financial services customers are located in several states, the Bank may be subject to additional licensure requirements or other regulation of its activities by state regulatory authorities and laws outside of Delaware. If the Bank’s compliance with licensure requirements or other regulation becomes overly burdensome, we may seek to convert its state charter to a federal charter in order to gain the benefits of federal preemption of some of those laws and regulations. Conversion of the Bank to a federal charter will require the prior approval of the relevant federal bank regulatory authorities, which we may not be able to obtain. Moreover, even if we obtain approval, there could be a significant period of time between our application and receipt of the approval, and/or any approval we do obtain may be subject to burdensome conditions or restrictions. Our success will depend on our ability to retain Betsy Z. Cohen, our Chief Executive Officer. We believe that our future success will depend upon the expertise of, and customer relationships established by Betsy Z. Cohen, our chief executive officer. If Mrs. Cohen were to become unavailable for any reason, or if we are unable to hire highly qualified and experienced personnel with similar relationships to replace her, our ability to attract deposits or loan customers may be materially adversely affected. We do not have key person life insurance on Mrs. Cohen. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 22 Table of Contents 