Risk Factors The cyclical nature of the paper industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The market for tissue and other paper products is highly cyclical and sensitive to changes in general business conditions, industry capacity, consumer preferences and other factors. We have no control over these factors and they can heavily influence our financial performance. Beginning in 2001, prices for tissue and machine-glazed paper end products experienced significant declines. In particular, the away-from-home converted tissue products market has been adversely impacted by a generally weak economy and, specifically, reduced travel and entertainment. The prices for our products may fluctuate substantially in the future, and continued weakness in prices or downturns in market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our operating results depend upon our wood pulp costs. An increase in wood pulp costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Wood pulp is the principal raw material used in the manufacture of our tissue and machine-glazed paper products. It is purchased in highly competitive, price sensitive markets. We do not own or control any timberlands or chip mills or manufacture pulp at any of our facilities. Therefore, we must buy our wood pulp and other raw materials either through supply agreements or on the open spot market. We have agreements with six pulp suppliers with the last agreement expiring in December 2006. We believe that these supply agreements or equivalent ones will enable us to purchase 65% of our total pulp requirements for fiscal year 2006. These agreements require minimum purchases at prices that are discounted from published list prices. The balance of our pulp requirements must be purchased in the open market. If any of our supply agreements were to be terminated for any reason, or not renewed upon expiration, or if market conditions were to substantially change, we may not be able to find alternative, comparable suppliers or suppliers capable of providing our wood pulp needs on terms or in amounts satisfactory to us. As a result, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. In addition, the spot market price and availability of wood pulp have at times fluctuated greatly because of weather, economic or general industry conditions. These factors can increase the price we must pay for wood pulp from our existing suppliers, any new suppliers or on the spot market. Selling prices of our products may not increase in response to raw material price increases. Our operating results may be seriously harmed if we are unable to pass raw material price increases through to our customers. We face significant competition and additional capacity entering the market. We may not be able to compete successfully in the markets we serve, which could reduce our market share and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive. We currently compete in the hard roll tissue, consumer and away-from-home converted tissue products and machine-glazed paper markets. Some of our competitors are able to produce tissue products at a lower cost than we are. Additionally, many of our competitors are large, vertically integrated companies that are more strongly capitalized than we are or have more financial resources than we do. Any of the foregoing factors may enable our competitors to better withstand periods of declining prices and adverse operating conditions in the tissue industry. In addition, changes within the paper industry, including the consolidation of our competitors and consolidation of companies in the distribution channels for our products, have occurred and may continue to occur and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 12 New machines may be built or idle machines activated which would also add more capacity to the tissue market. Increased production capacity in the tissue market could cause an oversupply resulting in lower prices and increased competition, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We compete on the basis of product quality and performance, price, service, sales and distribution. Competing in our markets involves the following key risks: •our failure to anticipate and respond to changing customer preferences and demographics; •our failure to develop new and improved products; •aggressive pricing by competitors, which may force us to decrease prices in an attempt to maintain market share; •consolidation of our customer base that diminishes our negotiating leverage; •the decision by our larger customers to discontinue outsourcing the production of their products to us and to produce their products themselves; •acquisition of a customer by one of our competitors, who thereafter replaces us as a supplier for that customer; and •our failure to control costs. Because we do not have long-term contracts with many of our customers, these competitive factors could cause our customers to shift to other producers. Additional competition could result in lost market share or reduced prices, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our energy costs may be higher than we anticipated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We spent approximately $33.5 million in fiscal year 2005 on electricity, natural gas and coal. Our Mississippi and Wisconsin facilities operate in regulated energy markets. Our other four facilities operate in deregulated energy markets. If our energy costs are greater than anticipated, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Unforeseen or recurring operational problems at any of our facilities may cause significant lost production, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our manufacturing process could be affected by operational problems that could impair our production capability. Each of our facilities contain complex and sophisticated machines that are used in our manufacturing process. Disruptions at any of our facilities could be caused by: •maintenance outages; •prolonged power failures or reductions, including the effect of lightning strikes on our electrical supply; •a breakdown, failure or substandard performance of any of our paper machines, converting machines or other equipment; •the effect of noncompliance with material environmental requirements or permits; •the effect of a drought or lower than expected rainfall on our water supply; •disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, including railroad tracks, bridges, tunnels or roads; •fires, floods, earthquakes or other catastrophic disasters; 13 •labor difficulties; or •other operational problems. Any prolonged disruption in operations at any of our facilities could cause significant lost production, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The market for our machine-glazed converted paper products may decline more rapidly than we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our machine-glazed converted paper products accounted for 19.4% of our total machine-glazed products tonnage in fiscal year 2003, 12.1% of our total machine-glazed products tonnage in fiscal year 2004 and 9.2% of our total machine-glazed products tonnage in fiscal year 2005. The North American market for converted machine-glazed paper products is declining as demand declines. If the market for converted machine-glazed paper products declines more rapidly than expected or if we are unable to maintain our share of the converted machine-glazed paper market or the prices of our machine-glazed converted paper products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are dependent upon continued demand from our large customers. If we lost order volumes from any of our largest customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our largest customers account for a significant portion of our sales. Our 10 largest customers represented 62.9% of our sales in fiscal year 2003, 64.4% of our sales for fiscal year 2004 and 64.2% of our sales for fiscal year 2005. Some of our large customers (including four of our 10 largest customers) have the capability of producing the products that we currently manufacture for them. The loss or significant reduction of orders from any of our 10 largest customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not realize the long-term expected benefits from our acquisition of the Wisconsin facility, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Before we acquired the Wisconsin facility in August 2002, the facility had been idle for approximately nine months. Our long-term success at our Wisconsin facility will depend, in part, on our ability to fully implement our growth strategy. We may be unsuccessful in fully achieving the access to the value-added consumer and away-from-home converted tissue products market that we expect to result from the acquisition. Our efforts to implement our long-term strategy could be affected by a number of factors beyond our control, such as increased competition, general economic conditions and regulatory developments. Any failure to effectively implement our long-term strategy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Labor disputes could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Approximately 62% of our active full-time employees are represented by either the Paper, Allied-Industrial, Chemical and Energy Workers International Union or Independent Paper Workers of Canada through various collective bargaining agreements that expire between August 2008 and February 2010. Historically, we have not experienced any strikes or work stoppages. It is likely that our workers will seek an increase in wages and benefits at the expiration of each of these contracts. 14 We are subject to significant environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and compliance expenditures. The cost of compliance with, and liabilities under, such laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business is subject to a wide range of federal, state, local and foreign general and industry specific environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those relating to air emissions, wastewater discharges, solid and hazardous waste management and disposal and site remediation. We are also subject to frequent inspections and monitoring by government enforcement authorities. Compliance with these laws and regulations is a significant factor in our business. From time to time, we incur significant capital and operating expenditures to achieve and maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations or permit requirements could result in substantial civil or criminal fines or penalties or enforcement actions, including regulatory or judicial orders enjoining or curtailing operations or requiring remedial or corrective measures, installation of pollution control equipment or other actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Certain of our operations also require environmental permits or other approvals from governmental authorities, and certain of these permits and approvals are subject to expiration, denial, revocation or modification under various circumstances. Failure to obtain or comply with these permits and approvals, or with other environmental requirements, may subject us to civil or criminal enforcement proceedings that can lead to substantial fines and penalties being imposed against us, orders requiring us to take certain actions or temporary or permanent shutdown of our affected operations. Such enforcement proceedings could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, as an owner and operator of real estate, we may be responsible under environmental laws and regulations for the investigation, remediation and monitoring, as well as associated costs, expenses and third-party damages, including tort liability and natural resource damages, relating to past or present releases of hazardous substances on or from our properties. Liability under these laws may be imposed without regard to whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of those substances on our property, may be joint and several, meaning that the entire liability may be imposed on each party without regard to contribution, and retroactive and may not be limited to the value of the property. In addition, we or others may discover new material environmental liabilities, including liabilities related to third-party owned properties that we or our predecessors formerly owned or operated, or at which we or our predecessors have disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of, certain materials. We may be involved in administrative or judicial proceedings and inquiries in the future relating to such environmental matters which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. New environmental laws or regulations (or changes in existing laws or regulations or their enforcement) may be enacted that require significant expenditures by us. If the resulting expenses significantly exceed our expectations, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We are also subject to various federal, state, local and foreign requirements concerning safety and health conditions at our manufacturing facilities. We may also be subject to material financial penalties or liabilities for noncompliance with those safety and health requirements, as well as potential business disruption, if any of our facilities or a portion of any facility is required to be temporarily closed as a result of any noncompliance with those requirements. Such financial penalties or liabilities or business disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 15 If we are unable to implement our business strategies, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our future operating results will depend in part on the extent to which we can successfully implement our business strategies on a cost-effective basis. However, our strategies are subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully implement our business strategies, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. The loss of our key managers could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our future success depends, in significant part, upon the continued services of our management personnel. The market for qualified individuals is highly competitive and we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel to replace or succeed members of our senior management or other key employees, should the need arise. Therefore, the loss of services of one or more of our key senior management could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Exposure to interest rate changes and other types of capital market volatility could increase our financing costs. We require both short-term and long-term financing to fund our operations, including capital expenditures. We are exposed to changes in interest rates with respect to our working capital facility and any new debt issues. Changes in the capital markets, our credit rating or prevailing interest rates can increase or decrease the cost or availability of financing which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, because some of our operations and sales are in international markets, we could be adversely affected by unfavorable fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in the political or economic conditions in the United States, Canada and, to a lesser extent, other countries in which our products are sold, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We sell our products in the United States, Canada, Mexico and South America. The economic and political climate of each of these regions has a significant impact on costs, prices and demand for our products in these areas. Changes in regional economies or political stability, including acts of war or terrorism, and changes in trade restrictions or laws (including tax laws and regulations, increased tariffs or other trade barriers) can affect the cost of manufacturing and distributing our products and the price and sales volume of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or to refinance our obligations with respect to, our indebtedness, including the $162,000,000 aggregate principal amount of our 93/4% senior secured notes due 2010 that we issued in March 2004, referred to as the Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. In addition, the guarantee of the Notes by our Canadian subsidiary resulted in the inclusion of the earnings of that subsidiary in our U.S. taxable income and an increase in our U.S. income taxes that was substantial. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing would be possible, that any assets could be sold, or, if sold, of the timing of 16 sales and the amount of proceeds that may be realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms, if at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Notes. Our significant debt obligations could limit our flexibility in managing our business and expose us to certain risks. We are highly leveraged. As of February 28, 2005, we had $161.1 million of indebtedness outstanding. In addition, we are permitted under our working capital facility and the indenture governing the Notes to incur additional debt, subject to certain limitations. Our high degree of leverage may have important consequences to you, including the following: •we may have difficulty satisfying our obligations under the Notes or other indebtedness and, if we fail to comply with these requirements, an event of default could result; •we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to required payments on indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; •covenants relating to our debt may limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate activities; •covenants relating to our debt may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; •we may be more vulnerable than our competitors to the impact of economic downturns and adverse developments in our business; and •we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage against any less leveraged competitors. The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy our obligations under the Notes. 