ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks set forth below may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to the risks set forth below and the factors affecting specific business operations identified with the description of these operations elsewhere in this report, there may also be risks of which we are currently unaware, or that we currently regard as immaterial based on the information available to us that later prove to be material. Risks Relating to Our Business Our success is dependent on sales of our mineral-based foundation. A change in consumer preferences for such products could harm our business. During the year ended December 28, 2008, approximately 71.0% of our net sales were derived from our sales of foundation products. We are vulnerable to shifting consumer tastes and demands and cannot be certain that our foundation will maintain its popularity and market acceptance. Our growth and future success will depend, in part, upon consumer preferences for our mineral-based foundation products. A decline in consumer demand for our mineral-based foundation would result in decreased net sales of our products and harm our business. Moreover, we are identified as a mineral-based cosmetics company, and it would likely damage our reputation were these products to fall out of favor with consumers. The current volatility in global economic conditions and the financial markets may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. The current volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets has reached nearly unprecedented levels and has significantly adversely impacted global economic conditions, resulting in additional significant recessionary pressures and further declines in consumer confidence and economic growth. These conditions have and could further lead to pricing pressures and reduced consumer spending in the foreseeable future. Reduced consumer spending may cause changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations, and changes in the level of inventory at our customers, which may adversely affect our industry, business and results of operations. These conditions have also resulted in a substantial tightening of the credit markets, including lending by financial institutions which is a source of capital for our borrowing and liquidity. This tightening of the credit markets has increased the cost of capital and reduced the availability of credit. It is difficult to predict how long the current economic and capital and credit market conditions will continue, the extent to which they will continue to deteriorate and which aspects of our products or business may be adversely affected. However, if current levels of economic and capital and credit market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we are likely to experience an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, the cost of and access to capital and credit markets, and our results of operations. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our significant customers, and a decrease or interruption in their business with us would reduce our sales and profitability. We depend on sales to specialty beauty retailers and QVC, Inc. for a significant portion of our net sales. Sales to Sephora, Ulta and QVC accounted for an aggregate of 40.5% of our net sales for the year ended December 28, 2008, with sales to each of these customers accounting for greater than 10% of our net sales for the year ended December 28, 2008. Our arrangement with QVC does not obligate QVC to make any purchases of our products or to undertake any efforts to promote our products on air or otherwise, and our arrangements with each of Sephora and Ulta are by purchase order and are terminable at will at the option of either party. A substantial decrease or interruption in business from these significant customers could result in inventory write- 14 Table of Contents offs or in the loss of future business and could reduce our liquidity and profitability. In addition, our appearances on QVC enhance our brand awareness and drive sales both on QVC and in our other sales channels. As a result, a decision by QVC to reduce the number of times per year it features our products on air or the type of such appearances would cause a decline in our sales to QVC and could cause sales in our other channels to suffer. In the future, our significant customers may undergo restructurings or reorganizations, or realign their affiliations, any of which could decrease their orders for our products. Any severe adverse impact on the business operations of our significant customers may have a corresponding negative effect on us. One or more of these customers may decide to exclusively feature a competitor’s mineral-based products, develop their own store-brand mineral-based products or reduce the number of brands of cosmetics and beauty products they sell, any of which could affect our ability to sell our products to them on favorable terms, if at all. Our loss of significant customers would impair our sales and profitability and harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The beauty industry is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively it could significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The beauty industry is highly competitive and at times changes rapidly due to consumer preferences and industry trends. Our products face, and will continue to face, competition for consumer recognition and market share with products that have achieved significant national and international brand name recognition and consumer loyalty, such as those offered by global prestige beauty companies Avon Products, Inc., Elizabeth Arden, Inc., The Estée Lauder Companies, Inc., L’Oréal S.A. and Neutrogena, each of which have launched and are promoting mineral-based makeup brands. These companies have significantly greater resources than we have and are less leveraged than we are. These competitors typically devote substantial resources to promoting their brands through traditional forms of advertising, such as print media and television commercials. Because of such mass marketing methods, these competitors’ products may achieve higher visibility and recognition than our products. In addition, these competitors may duplicate our marketing strategy and distribution model to increase the breadth of their product sales. The total market for prestige cosmetics was not growing rapidly prior to the current recession. As a result, competition for market share in this cosmetics category is especially intense, even when economic conditions are favorable. In order to succeed, we must continue to take market share from our competitors across all of our sales channels. We compete with prestige cosmetics companies primarily in department store and specialty beauty retail channels, but prestige cosmetics companies also recently have increased their sales through infomercial and home shopping television channels. Mass cosmetics brands are sold primarily though channels in which we do not sell our products, such as mass merchants, but mass cosmetics companies are increasingly making efforts to acquire market share in the higher-margin prestige cosmetics category by introducing brands and products that address this market. If we are unable to maintain or improve the inventory levels and in-store positioning of our products in third-party retailers or maintain and increase sales of our products through our other distribution channels, including infomercials, home shopping television and other direct-to-consumer methods, our ability to achieve and maintain significant market acceptance for our products could be severely impaired. Further, the trend toward consolidation in the retail industry, particularly in developed markets such as the United States and Western Europe, could result in our becoming increasingly dependent upon some retailers, who have increased their respective bargaining strength. Advertising, promotion, merchandising and packaging, and the timing of new product introductions and line extensions have a significant impact on consumers’ buying decisions and, as a result, our net sales. These factors, as well as demographic trends, economic conditions and discount pricing strategies by competitors, could result in increased competition and could harm our net sales and profitability. 15 Table of Contents The mineral-based makeup category has become increasingly competitive and we may be unable to differentiate our product from other mineral-based makeup brands which would adversely affect our ability to acquire new customers and harm our sales. In addition to global prestige beauty companies such as Avon Products, Inc., Elizabeth Arden, Inc., The Estee Lauder Companies, Inc., L’Oreal S.A. and Neutrogena launching their own mineral-based makeup brands, a number of smaller companies have also launched mineral-based makeup lines given that the process for production of mineral-based cosmetics is not subject to patent protection and there is a low barrier to entry into the market for such products. Some of these competitors have significant experience using infomercials to market and sell cosmetics and skin care products and have employed marketing strategies and distribution models similar to ours. If these smaller companies’ products prove successful or if global prestige beauty companies were to significantly increase production and marketing of their mineral-based cosmetics, our net sales could suffer. If, through our marketing efforts, such as our infomercial and foundation sampling initiative, we are unable to successfully differentiate the quality of our mineral-based makeup from our competitors’ products, our ability to acquire new customers will suffer. If consumers prefer our competitors’ products over ours, we would lose market share and our net sales will decline. New products that we develop might not generate sufficient consumer interest and sales to become profitable or to cover the costs of their development. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to grow our international business. Our future success depends on our ability to continue to grow our international business, which increased from approximately 7.9% of our net sales in 2007 to approximately 12.1% of our net sales in 2008. In order to successfully grow our international business, we need to develop successful retail and distribution partnerships in each international market and effectively translate the appeal of our products within those markets. As other global prestige beauty companies have more experience developing, marketing and selling their products for and to markets outside of the U.S., we are competing against well-established brands with sophisticated international operations and significantly greater resources than us. Achieving growth in our international business will require investment in product development, marketing initiatives, distribution channels, information technology, operating infrastructure and the hiring and training of additional international employees. For example, in 2009 we plan to increase the number of international customers who will be supported through our distribution facility in the United Kingdom, which will require investment in information technology infrastructure and the hiring and training of additional employees who will manage the new distribution process. In addition to the monetary investment required to grow our international business, time and energy spent by our executive team on our international business may distract them from our core domestic business and operations. Our ability to grow our international business involves significant risks and uncertainties. Our efforts to increase sales of our products outside the U.S. may not be successful and may not achieve higher sales or gross margins or otherwise contribute to profitability. We are subject to risks related to our international operations. As we seek to expand our international operations, we will be increasingly susceptible to the following risks associated with international operations: • import and export license requirements; • trade restrictions; • changes in tariffs and taxes; • restrictions on repatriating foreign profits back to the United States; • the imposition of foreign and domestic governmental controls; • unfamiliarity with foreign laws and regulations; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; 16 Table of Contents • product registration, permitting and regulatory compliance; • thefts and other crimes; and • geopolitical conditions, such as terrorist attacks, war or other military action. In addition, we plan to develop formal and informal marketing and distribution relationships with existing and new local business partners who can provide local expertise and sales and distribution infrastructure to support our expansion in our target international markets, which will be time-consuming and costly. Several of the risks associated with our international business may be within the control (in whole or in part) of these local business partners with whom we have established relationships or may be affected by the acts or omissions of these local business partners. No assurances can be provided that these local business partners will effectively help us in their respective markets or that they will act in compliance with foreign laws and regulations in providing us with services. The failure of these local business partners to assist us in their local markets and the other risks set forth above could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to sustain our growth or profitability, which could impair our future success and ability to make investments in our business. Our ability to succeed depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to grow our business while maintaining profitability. We may not be able to sustain our growth or profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in future periods. Our future growth and profitability has in the past and will in the future depend upon a number of factors, including, without limitation: • the level of competition in the beauty industry; • our ability to continue to execute successfully our strategic initiatives and growth strategy; • general economic conditions and consumer confidence, • our ability to sell our products effectively through our various distribution channels in volumes sufficient to drive growth and leverage our cost structure and media spending; • our ability to improve our products continuously in order to offer new and enhanced consumer benefits and better quality; • our ability to maintain efficient, timely and cost-effective production and delivery of our products; • the efficiency and effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, including through infomercials and QVC, in building product and brand awareness, driving traffic to our various distribution channels and increasing sales; • our ability to identify and respond successfully to emerging trends in the beauty industry; • our ability to maintain and intensify our consumers’ emotional connection with our brand, including through friendly and effective customer service and contacts; • our ability to maintain public association of our brand with prestige beauty products; • the level of consumer acceptance of our products. We may not be successful in executing our growth strategy, and even if we achieve our strategic plan, we may not be able to sustain profitability. Failure to execute any material part of our strategic plan or growth strategy successfully could significantly impair our ability to service our indebtedness and make investments in our business. 17 Table of Contents We may be unable to manage our growth effectively, which could cause our liquidity and profitability to suffer. We have grown rapidly, with our net sales increasing from approximately $141.8 million for the year ended January 2, 2005 to approximately $556.2 million for the year ended December 28, 2008. Sales in international markets have contributed to our rapid growth as our net sales in international markets has increased from approximately $8.7 million for the year ended January 2, 2005 to approximately $67.2 million for the year ended December 28, 2008. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our management team, information systems and other resources. To manage growth effectively, we must: • continue to enhance our operational, financial and management systems, including our warehouse management, inventory control and in-store point-of-sale systems both in the U.S. and abroad; • maintain and improve our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures; and • expand, train and manage our employee base both in the U.S. and abroad. We may not be able to effectively manage this expansion in any one or more of these areas, and any failure to do so could significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Our rapid growth also makes it difficult for us to adequately predict the expenditures we will need to make in the future. If we do not make the necessary overhead expenditures to accommodate our future growth, we may not be successful in executing our growth strategy, and our prospects and results of operations would suffer. A prolonged continuation of the current economic climate or further decline in general economic conditions could create pricing pressures and lead to reduced consumer demand for our products and/or the financial strength of our customers that are retailers, which could adversely affect our net sales, liquidity and profitability. Since purchases of our merchandise are dependent upon discretionary spending by our consumers, our financial performance is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that affect consumer spending. Consumer spending habits are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. The current crises in the United States economy and the economies of other countries where we sell our products and increased uncertainty as to the economic outlook, could further reduce discretionary spending or cause a shift in consumer discretionary spending to other products or a shift in the mix of our products purchased by consumers. Consumer purchases of discretionary items tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, and may impact sales of our products. A decline in consumer purchases of discretionary items may also impact our customers that are retailers. We generally extend credit to a retailer based on an evaluation of its financial condition, generally without requiring any collateral. Financial difficulties of a retailer could cause us to limit or terminate business with that customer. We may also assume more risk associated with receivables from that retailer and our inability to collect the receivable from one of our larger customers or a group of customers could harm our financial condition. Any of these factors would likely cause us to delay or slow our expansion plans, result in lower net sales and excess inventories and hinder our ability to raise prices in line with costs, which could, in turn, lead to increased merchandise markdowns and impairment charges, adversely affecting our profitability. If we are unable to retain key executives and other personnel, particularly Leslie Blodgett, our Chief Executive Officer and primary spokesperson, and recruit additional executives and personnel, we may not be able to execute our business strategy and our growth may be hindered. Our success largely depends on the performance of our management team and other key personnel and our ability to continue to recruit qualified senior executives and other key personnel. Our future operations could be harmed if any of our senior executives or other key personnel ceased working for us. Competition for senior management personnel is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our personnel or 18 Table of Contents attract additional qualified personnel. The loss of a member of senior management may require the remaining executive officers to divert immediate and substantial attention to fulfilling his or her duties and to seeking a replacement. We may not be able to continue to attract or retain such personnel in the future. Any inability to fill vacancies in our senior executive positions on a timely basis could harm our ability to implement our business strategy, which would harm our business and results of operations. We are particularly dependent on Leslie Blodgett, our Chief Executive Officer and primary spokesperson, as her talents, efforts, personality and leadership have been, and continue to be, critical to our success. Many of our customers identify our products by their association with Ms. Blodgett, and she greatly enhances the success of our sales and marketing. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining her services. We maintain key executive life insurance policies with respect to Ms. Blodgett totaling approximately $34 million, which is payable to the lenders under our senior secured credit facility in the event we collect payments on the policy. A diminution or loss of the services of Ms. Blodgett would significantly harm our net sales, and as a result, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our senior management team has limited experience working together as a group, and may not be able to manage our business effectively. Many members of our senior management team, including our President of Retail, Senior Vice President and General Merchandising Manager for North America, and Vice President Controller have been hired since June 2008. As a result, our senior management team has limited experience working together as a group. This lack of shared experience could harm our senior management team’s ability to quickly and efficiently respond to problems and effectively manage our business. Our success also depends on our ability to continue to attract, manage and retain other qualified senior management members as we grow. Our planned expansion of our boutique operations will result in increased expenses with no guarantee of increased earnings. In addition, we may close boutiques that are not profitable or incur other costs, which could cause our results of operations to suffer. We opened a total of 45 new boutiques in 2008, and we plan to open approximately 25 new boutiques in 2009. We expect our total capital expenditures associated with opening these new boutiques to be approximately $12.0 million in 2009. However, we may not be able to attain our target number of new boutique openings, and any of the new boutiques that we open may not be profitable, either of which could cause our financial results to suffer. Our ability to expand by opening new boutiques will depend in part on the following factors: • the availability of attractive boutique locations; • our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms; • our ability to identify customer demand in different geographic areas; • general economic conditions; and • availability of sufficient funds for expansion. In order to continue our expansion of boutiques, we will need to hire additional management and staff for our corporate offices and employees for each new boutique. In addition, we will need to continue to invest in our information technology systems to accommodate the growth of our operations. If we are unable to hire necessary personnel or support our existing information technology systems, our expansion efforts may not succeed and our results of operations may suffer. Some of our expenses will increase with the opening of new boutiques, such as headcount and lease occupancy expenses as well as information technology system expenses. Moreover, as we stock new boutiques with product inventory, our inventory expenditures will increase. We may not be able to manage these increased expenses without decreasing our earnings. If any of our boutiques fails to generate attractive financial returns or 19 Table of Contents otherwise does not serve our strategic goals, we may be required to close that boutique. If we were to close any boutique, we likely would incur expenses and impairment charges in connection with such closing, would be unable to recover our investment in leasehold improvements at that boutique and would be liable for remaining lease obligations, which could harm our results of operations. We depend on third parties to manufacture all of the products we sell and we do not have long-term contracts with all of these manufacturers. If we are unable to maintain these manufacturing relationships, if the economic climate adversely affects our third party manufacturers or we enter into additional or different arrangements, we may fail to meet customer demand and our net sales and profitability may suffer as a result. All of our products are contract manufactured or supplied by third parties who are located in both the U.S. and China. We do not have long-term contracts with all of these manufacturers of our products. The fact that we do not have long-term contracts with all of our other third-party manufacturers means that they could cease manufacturing these products for us suddenly and unpredictably. In addition, our third-party manufacturers are generally not restricted from manufacturing our competitors’ products, including mineral-based products. We source some of our products through a supplier agent that purchases products from third-party manufacturers and some of the ingredients in certain products are sole-sourced. Also, the current economic climate or further decline in general economic conditions may cause our third party manufacturers to experience liquidity problems which may result in their inability to continue as going concerns or to produce the quantity of products that we require. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of suitable products or ingredients because of the loss of one or more key vendors or manufacturers or our supplier agent or otherwise, our business and results of operations would suffer because we would be missing products from our merchandise mix unless and until we could make alternative supply arrangements. In addition, identifying and selecting alternative vendors would be time-consuming and expensive, and we might experience significant delays in production during this selection process. Our inability to secure adequate and timely supplies of merchandise would harm inventory levels, net sales and gross profit, and ultimately our results of operations. Some of our products are currently being produced by third-party manufacturers located in China. Due to cost advantages, we expect that our dependence on third-party manufacturers located in China will continue to increase. Recently there have been concerns regarding the quality and safety of goods manufactured in China. If our China-based manufacturers fail to produce quality products on time, at expected cost targets and in sufficient quantities, or if any of our products are found to be tainted or otherwise raise health or safety concerns, our reputation and operating results would suffer. Any of our manufacturers also may increase the cost of the products we purchase from them. If our manufacturers increase our costs, our margins would suffer unless we were able to pass along these increased costs to our customers. We may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors and manufacturers, and even if we do establish such relationships, such new vendors and manufacturers might not allocate sufficient capacity to us to meet our requirements. Furthermore, products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality or more expensive than those we currently purchase. In addition, if we increase our product orders significantly from the amounts we have historically ordered from our manufacturers, our manufacturers might be unable to meet this increased demand. To the extent we fail to obtain additional products from our manufacturers, we may not be able to meet customer demand, which could harm our net sales and profitability. Our third-party manufacturers may not continue to produce products that are consistent with our quality and safety standards or applicable regulatory requirements, which could harm our brand, cause customer dissatisfaction and require us to find alternative suppliers of our products. Our third-party manufacturers may not maintain adequate controls with respect to product specifications and quality and may not continue to produce products that are consistent with our standards or applicable regulatory requirements, as described below. If we are forced to rely on products of inferior quality, then our customer satisfaction and brand reputation would likely suffer, which would lead to reduced net sales, or products may 20 Table of Contents become subject to liability claims. In addition, we may be required to find new third-party manufacturers to supply our products. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in finding third-party manufacturers that make products meeting our standards of quality or safety. In accordance with the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA), and FDA regulations, our products may not be sold if they are deemed to be adulterated or misbranded. Our third party manufacturers may deviate from good manufacturing practices or, through their action or inaction, otherwise render our product misbranded. Labeling and claims made for products must follow specific requirements to avoid being deemed misbranded. The FDA may inspect our facilities and those of our third-party manufacturers periodically to determine if we and our third-party manufacturers are complying with the FDCA. Certain claims may subject our products to being deemed an illegal new drug. Some of our competitors may currently be making these claims at their own risk. We have limited control over the FDA compliance of our third-party manufacturers. A history of past compliance is not a guarantee that future FDA regulatory manufacturing requirements will not mandate other compliance steps with associated expense. If we or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with federal, state or foreign regulations, we could be required to suspend manufacturing operations, change product formulations, suspend the sale of products with non-complying specifications, initiate product recalls, change product labeling, packaging or advertising or take other corrective action. In addition, sanctions under the FDCA may include seizure of products, injunctions against future shipment of products, restitution and disgorgement of profits, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. If any of the above events occurs, we would be required to expend significant resources on compliance, fines, and/or legal fees and we might need to seek the services of alternative third-party manufacturers. A prolonged interruption in the manufacturing of one or more of our products as a result of non-compliance could decrease our supply of products available for sale which could reduce our net sales, gross profits and market share, as well as harm our overall business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Our manufacturers ship a significant portion of the product we order to our distribution centers in Obetz, Ohio and Hayward, California, and any significant disruption of the operations of the centers would hurt our ability to make timely delivery of our products. We distribute products to our domestic channels from our facility in Obetz, Ohio. Approximately 88% of our net sales for the year ended December 28, 2008 were derived from these sales channels. We distribute products primarily in support of our international business from our facility in Hayward, California. Approximately 12% of our net sales for the year ended December 28, 2008 were derived from these sales channels. A natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as a fire, flood, severe storm, break-in, terrorist attack or other comparable event could cause interruptions or delays in our business and loss of inventory and could render us unable to accept or fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. Hayward, California is located on a major fault line, increasing our susceptibility to the risk that an earthquake could significantly harm the operations of our distribution facility. The impact of any of these natural disasters or other catastrophic events on our business may be exacerbated by the fact that we are still in the process of developing our formal disaster recovery plan, and we do not have a final plan currently in place. In addition, our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. In the event that an earthquake, fire, natural disaster or other catastrophic event were to destroy a significant part of either facility or interrupt our operations for an extended period of time, our net sales would be reduced and our results of operations would be harmed. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate due to the timing of customer orders, the number of QVC appearances we make, new boutique openings, as well as limited seasonality and other factors. We may experience variability in net sales and net income on a quarterly basis as a result of a variety of factors, including the timing of orders from our premium wholesale customers, the timing and number of our appearances on QVC, the timing of new boutique openings, seasonality and other factors. We make sales to our premium wholesale customers on a purchase order basis, and we receive new orders when and as these customers need replenishment product. As a result, their orders typically are not evenly distributed through the course of the 21 Table of Contents year. In addition, our sales to QVC are largely dependent on the timing and number of our on-air appearances, with our greatest sales generated through appearances where our products are featured as “Today’s Special Value” or “TSV.” As such, we expect our quarterly results to continue to fluctuate based on the number of shows in a quarter and whether a particular quarter includes a TSV or not. We opened a total of 45 new boutiques in 2008 and we plan to open approximately 25 new boutiques in 2009. The timing of these boutique openings will impact both our net sales and our selling, general and administrative expenses. For example, if we were to open a number of new boutiques at the end of a quarter, our results of operations for that quarter would include limited net sales from the new boutiques but substantially all of the pre-opening expenses associated with such boutiques. In addition, our plans to open a number of new boutiques and expand our retail presence could have the effect of increasing the percentage of sales driven through these sales channels. While we believe our overall business is not currently subject to significant seasonal fluctuations, we have experienced limited seasonality in our specialty beauty retail and company-owned boutique channels as a result of increased demand for our products in anticipation of and during the holiday season. To the extent our sales to specialty beauty retailers and through our boutiques increase as a percentage of our total sales, we may experience increased seasonality. Our operations may be impaired as a result of disasters, business interruptions or similar events. A natural disaster such as an earthquake, fire, flood, or severe storm, or a catastrophic event such as a terrorist attack, an epidemic affecting our operating activities, major facilities, or a computer system failure could cause an interruption or delay in our business and loss of inventory and/or data or render us unable to accept and fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, we are located in areas that are susceptible to an earthquake or other similar event could prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner. We do not currently have a disaster recovery plan, other than with respect to our information technology systems, and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. In the event that an earthquake, natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event were to destroy any part of our facilities or interrupt our corporate headquarters or any of our distribution facilities operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and operating results could be seriously harmed. Our computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption, which could harm our business. Our ability to receive and fulfill orders successfully is critical to our success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Our primary computer systems and operations are located at a co-location facility in San Francisco, California and our corporate headquarters also in San Francisco, California and are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events and errors in usage by our employees and customers. Systems integration issues are complex, time-consuming and expensive. We outsource the hosting of our websites bareescentuals.com, bareminerals.com and mdformulations.com. In the event that any of our website service providers experiences any interruption in its operations or ceases operations for any reason or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for a continued hosting relationship, we would be forced to enter into a relationship with another service provider or take over hosting responsibilities ourselves. In the event it becomes necessary to switch hosting facilities in the future, we may not be successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting our websites ourselves. Any significant interruption in the availability or functionality of our website or our sales processing, distribution or communications systems, for any reason, could seriously harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents We are required to evaluate our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and are exposed to future risks of non-compliance. We were required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the years ended December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007. Such report contains, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year, including a statement as to whether or not our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Such report must also contain a statement that our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report on management’s assessment of such internal control. We completed the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, for the fiscal years ended December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007. Our assessment, testing and evaluation resulted in our conclusion that as of December 28, 2008 and December 30, 2007, our internal control over financial reporting was effective. However, we cannot predict the outcome of our testing in future periods and if our internal controls are ineffective in future periods, our financial results or the market price of our stock could be adversely affected. In any event, we will incur additional expenses and commitment of management’s time in connection with further evaluations, which may adversely affect our future operating results and financial condition. Our indebtedness could limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy significant debt service obligations or to refinance the obligations on acceptable terms, or at all. Our consolidated long-term indebtedness as of December 28, 2008 was $241.0 million. As of December 28, 2008, we may borrow up to an additional $24.9 million under our revolving credit facility, subject to compliance with a maximum leverage ratio covenant. Our senior secured credit facilities, as amended in March 2007, contain a number of significant covenants, which limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay dividends, make distributions, or redeem or repurchase capital stock and grant liens on our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries. For example, we are restricted from incurring additional indebtedness from a third party unless we satisfy the maximum leverage ratio covenant in our credit facility. Our senior secured credit facilities also require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy financial condition tests at the end of each fiscal quarter. Our ability to meet these financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facilities. If the lenders accelerate amounts owing under our senior secured credit facilities because of a default and we are unable to pay such amounts, the lenders have the right to foreclose on substantially all of our assets. In addition, our substantial indebtedness and the fact that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be used to make principal and interest payments on this indebtedness could have important consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, placing us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less leveraged; • reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions or other corporate requirements; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; and • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future that we may need to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development, acquisitions or other corporate requirements. Our ability to incur significant future indebtedness, whether to finance capital expenditures, product development, potential acquisitions or for general corporate purposes, will depend on our ability to generate cash 23 Table of Contents flow. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us under our senior secured credit facilities in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. If we cannot make scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures or seek additional equity financing. If we are unable to refinance this or any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or to effect any other action relating to our indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all, our business may be harmed. Our debt obligations have variable interest rates, which makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates and could cause our interest expense to increase and decrease cash available for operations and other purposes. As of December 28, 2008, we had $241.0 million of consolidated indebtedness that was subject to variable interest rates. Interest rates in the U.S. recently have been near historic lows, and any increase in these rates would increase our interest expense and reduce our funds available for operations and other purposes. We have entered into an interest rate swap agreement through August 2009 covering a portion of our variable rate debt intended to hedge our exposure to adverse fluctuations in interest rates. Nevertheless, we may experience material increases in our interest expense as a result of increases in interest rate levels generally. Based on the $241.0 million of variable interest rate indebtedness outstanding as of December 28, 2008, excluding the impact of our interest rate swap agreement currently in place, a hypothetical 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would result in a change of approximately $2.4 million change to our annual interest expense. Our products may cause unexpected and undesirable side effects that could limit their use, require their removal from the market or prevent further development. In addition, we are vulnerable to claims that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be. Unexpected and undesirable side effects caused by our products for which we have not provided sufficient label warnings could result in our recall or discontinuance of sales of our products. Unexpected and undesirable side effects could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected products or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing new products. In addition, consumers or industry analysts may assert claims that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be. Unexpected and undesirable side effects associated with our products or assertions that our products are not as effective as we claim them to be also could cause negative publicity regarding our company, brand or products, which could in turn harm our reputation and net sales. We are particularly susceptible to these risks because our marketing campaign heavily relies on the assertion that our products are “pure”, “healthy” and ideal for women who have skin conditions that can be exacerbated by traditional cosmetics. We may face product liability claims and may be required to recall products, either of which could result in unexpected costs and damage to our reputation. Our business exposes us to potential liability risks that arise from the testing, manufacture and sale of our beauty products. Plaintiffs in the past have received substantial damage awards from other cosmetics companies based upon claims for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their products. We currently maintain general liability insurance with an annual aggregate coverage limit of $20.0 million. Any claims brought against us may exceed our existing or future insurance policy coverage or limits. Any judgment against us that is in excess of our policy limits would have to be paid from our cash reserves, which would reduce our capital resources. Further, we may not have sufficient capital resources to pay a judgment, in which case our creditors could levy against our assets. Any product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could harm our business significantly, particularly if a claim were to result in adverse publicity or damage awards outside or in excess of our insurance policy limits. In addition, in the past, we have recalled certain of our products, and in the future, it may be necessary for us to recall products that do not meet approved specifications or because of the side effects 24 Table of Contents resulting from the use of our products, which would result in adverse publicity, potentially significant costs in connection with the recall and a loss of net sales from such products. We do not currently own any patents on our products. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our ability to compete could be harmed. We regard our trademarks, trade dress, copyrights, trade secrets, know-how and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. Our principal intellectual property rights include the registered trademarks, “bareMinerals,” “Buxom”, “md formulations,” “Bare Escentuals” and “RareMinerals,” among others, copyrights in our infomercial broadcasts and website content rights to our domain names bareescentuals.com, bareminerals.com and mdformulations.com and trade secrets and know-how with respect to product formulations, product sourcing, sales and marketing and other aspects of our business. As such, we rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers, and others to protect our proprietary rights. We have not received patent protection on any of our products, though we have licenses for the proprietary formulations and ingredients used in some of our md formulations and RareMinerals products. If we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. Although many of our brands are registered in the United States and in certain foreign countries in which we operate, we may not be successful in asserting trademark or trade name protection. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The costs required to protect our trademarks and trade names may be substantial. In addition, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks, copyright, and advertising is evolving. Therefore, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Other parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights and may dilute our brands in the marketplace. Any such infringement or dilution of our intellectual property rights would also likely result in a commitment of our time and resources to protect these rights through litigation or otherwise. For example, we currently are pursuing claims in litigation against M/D Skin Care LLC and its founder Dr. Dennis Gross regarding its use of the trademark “MD Skincare.” M/D Skin Care LLC has also filed claims against us in the case. We are also pursuing claims in litigation against L’Oréal USA, Inc. regarding its use of the trademark “Bare Naturale” and for false advertising of this brand. We have sued Intelligent Beauty LLC over false advertising and trademark infringement arising from its marketing of “Raw Minerals” brand products. We have incurred and expect to incur significant legal fees and other expenses in pursuing these claims. In each case, we believe the competing marks infringe our trademark rights and create confusion in the marketplace and that false advertising harms our reputation. If we receive an adverse judgment in either of these matters or in any other cases we may bring in the future to protect our intellectual property rights, we may suffer further dilution of our trademarks and other rights, which could harm our ability to compete as well as our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Legal proceedings or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement may require us to spend time and money and could prevent us from developing or commercializing products. We currently sell our md formulations products in sales channels that arguably exceed the permitted field of use. Our technologies, products or potential products in development may infringe rights under patents, patent applications, trademark, copyright or other intellectual property rights of third parties in the United States and abroad. These third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successful, could cause us to pay substantial damages. Further, if a third party were to bring an intellectual property infringement suit against us, we could be forced to stop or delay development, manufacturing, or sales of the product that is the subject of the suit. 25 Table of Contents Our MD Formulations, Inc. subsidiary acquired rights to the md formulations trademarks and some of our md formulations product rights from a large specialty pharmaceutical company in 1999. For some time we have sold, and we currently sell our md formulations products in sales channels that arguably exceed the permitted field of use specified in the purchase agreement. The agreement provides for the sale to MD Formulations of md formulations product rights for use in a field of use defined as the research, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of alpha hydroxy acid, or AHA, skin care products to “skin care aestheticians” worldwide and to physicians outside of the United States. During the past five years we have sold md formulations products in our premium wholesale channels, through our own boutiques, on our mdformulations.com website, to spas and salons and to international distributors. The party from which we purchased the md formulations product rights is aware of our sales in these channels and has not requested that we discontinue sales in these channels, although it has to date refused our requests to expand the permitted field of use to explicitly cover all of these sales. However, if it were to challenge our rights to sell md formulations products in these distribution channels, we could be required to engage in litigation or negotiation with the objective of obtaining these rights. Any such litigation would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if we were unsuccessful, could cause us to lose the right to sell our products in one or more of our existing distribution channels or to pay damages, either of which could significantly harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we may choose to seek, or be required to seek, a license from the third party and might be required to pay license fees or royalties or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be non-exclusive, which would give our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened intellectual property infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This inability to enter into licenses could harm our business significantly. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other patent or trademark litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, proceedings before the USPTO’s Trademark Trial and Appeal Board and opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office or in patent or trademark offices of other jurisdictions, regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology. The cost to us of any intellectual property litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings better than us because of their substantially greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property litigation or other proceedings could impair our ability to compete in the marketplace. Intellectual property litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time and resources. We may be subject to liability for the content that we publish. As a publisher of infomercial broadcasts and online content, we face potential liability for intellectual property infringement and other similar claims based on the information and other content contained in our infomercials, website and instructional DVDs and videos. In the past, parties have brought these types of claims and sometimes successfully litigated them against other online services. If we incur liability for our infomercial or online content, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. The regulatory status of our cosmetics or skin care products could change, and we may be required to conduct clinical trials to establish efficacy and safety or cease to market these products. The FDA does not have a premarket approval system for cosmetics, and we believe we are permitted to market our cosmetics and have them manufactured without submitting safety or efficacy data to the FDA. However, the FDA may in the future determine to regulate our cosmetics or the ingredients included in our 26 Table of Contents cosmetics as drugs or biologics. If certain of our bareMinerals products, RareMinerals products or our other products are deemed to be drugs or biologics, rather than cosmetics, we would be required to conduct clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of these products in order to continue to market and sell them. In such event, we may not have sufficient resources to conduct any required clinical trials, and we may not be able to establish sufficient efficacy or safety data to resume the sale of these products. Any inquiries by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authorities into the regulatory status of our cosmetics and any related interruption in the marketing and sale of these products could severely damage our brand reputation and image in the marketplace, as well as our relationships with customers, which would harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our products intended to treat acne or otherwise affect the structure or function of the body are considered over-the-counter, or OTC, drug products by the FDA. The FDA regulates the formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling and distribution of OTC drug products pursuant to a “monograph” system that specifies active drug ingredients and concentrations and acceptable product claims. If any of our products that are OTC drugs are not in compliance with the applicable FDA monograph, we could be required to (i) reformulate such product, (ii) cease to make certain use claims relating to such product and/or (iii) cease to sell such product until we receive further FDA approval. There can be no assurance that, if more stringent regulations are promulgated, we will be able to comply with such statutes or regulations without incurring substantial expense or at all. In addition, OTC drug products must be manufactured in accordance with drug good manufacturing practice regulations. Our OTC drug manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies to ensure strict compliance with good manufacturing practices and other government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over third-party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. If the FDA finds a violation of drug good manufacturing practices, it may enjoin the manufacturer’s operations, seize products, or criminally prosecute the manufacturer, any of which could require us to find alternative manufacturers, resulting in additional time and expense. Regulatory matters governing our industry could decrease our net sales and increase our operating costs. In both our U.S. and foreign markets, we are affected by extensive laws, governmental regulations, administrative determinations, court decisions and similar constraints. Such laws, regulations and other constraints may exist at the federal, state or local levels in the United States and at analogous levels of government in foreign jurisdictions. The formulation, manufacturing, packaging, labeling, distribution, importation, sale and storage of our products are subject to extensive regulation by various federal agencies, including the FDA, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, state attorneys general in the U.S., the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare in Japan, as well as by various other federal, state, local and international regulatory authorities in the countries in which our products are manufactured, distributed or sold. If we or our manufacturers fail to comply with those regulations, we could become subject to significant penalties or claims, which could harm our results of operations or our ability to conduct our business. In addition, the adoption of new regulations or changes in the interpretations of existing regulations may result in significant compliance costs or discontinuation of product sales and may impair the marketing of our products, resulting in significant loss of net sales. Our failure to comply with federal or state regulations, or with regulations in foreign markets that cover our product claims and advertising, including direct claims and advertising by us, may result in enforcement actions and imposition of penalties or otherwise harm the distribution and sale of our products. Further, our business is subject to laws governing our accounting, tax, and import and export activities. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in legal and/or financial consequences that might adversely affect our sales and profitability. In addition, changes in the laws, regulations and policies that affect our business, or the interpretations thereof, and actions we may take in response to such changes, could have an adverse effect on our financial results. 27 Table of Contents Our media spending might not result in increased net sales or generate the levels of product and brand name awareness we desire, and we might not be able to increase our net sales at the same rate as we increase our advertising expenditures. Our future growth and profitability will depend in part on the effectiveness and efficiency of our media spending, including our ability to: • create greater awareness of our products and brand name; • determine the appropriate creative message and media mix for future expenditures; and • effectively manage advertising costs, including creative and media costs, to maintain acceptable costs per sale and operating margins. Our infomercials and advertising may not result in increased sales or generate desired levels of product and brand name awareness, and we may not be able to increase our net sales at the same rate as we increase our advertising expenditures. We periodically update the content of our infomercials and revise our product offerings and pricing. If customers are not as receptive to new infomercial content or product offerings, our sales through our infomercial sales channel will continue to decline. In addition, if there is a marked increase in the price we pay for our media time, the cost-effectiveness of our infomercials will decrease. If our infomercials are broadcast during times when viewership is low, this could also result in a decrease of the cost-effectiveness of such broadcasts, which could cause our results of operations to suffer. Also, to the extent we have committed in advance for broadcast time for our infomercials, we would have fewer resources available for potentially more effective distribution channels. We may need to raise additional funds to pursue our growth strategy or continue our operations, and we may be unable to raise capital when needed. From time to time, we may seek additional equity or debt financing to provide for the capital expenditures required to finance working capital requirements, to increase the number of our boutiques or to make acquisitions. In addition, if our business plans change, if general economic, financial or political conditions in our markets change, or if other circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow, the anticipated cash needs of our business as well as our conclusions as to the adequacy of our available sources of capital could change significantly. Any of these events or circumstances could result in significant additional funding needs, requiring us to raise additional capital to meet those needs. We cannot predict the timing or amount of any such capital requirements at this time. If financing is not available on satisfactory terms or at all, we may be unable to expand our business or to develop new business at the rate desired and our results of operations may suffer. This problem may be especially acute in light of the current liquidity crisis. Our plans to expand our product offerings and launch new brands or brand extensions may not be successful, and implementation of these plans may divert our operational, managerial and administrative resources, which could impact our competitive position. We plan to grow our business by expanding our product offerings and developing new brands or brand extensions, as we did when we launched our RareMinerals brand and line of products in 2007. These plans involve various risks, including: • if our expanded product offerings or new brands or brand extensions fail to maintain and enhance our distinctive brand identity, our brand image may be diminished and our net sales may decrease; and • the implementation of these plans may divert management’s attention from other aspects of our business and place a strain on our management, operational and financial resources, as well as our information systems. 28 Table of Contents The development and launch of a new product line or brand or brand extension could be delayed or abandoned, could cost more than anticipated and could divert resources from other areas of our business, any of which could impact our competitive position and reduce our net sales and profitability. We have and will continue to enhance our core systems which might disrupt our supply chain operations. We have and will continue to enhance our information technology systems supporting our financial management and reporting, inventory and purchasing management, order management, warehouse management and forecasting. There are inherent risks associated with enhancing our core systems, including supply chain disruptions that may affect our ability to deliver products to our customers. We may not be able to successfully transition these new systems or transition them without supply chain disruptions in the future. Any resulting supply chain disruptions could harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We may make acquisitions and strategic investments, which will involve numerous risks. We may not be able to address these risks without substantial expense, delay or other operational or financial problems. Although we have a limited history of making acquisitions or strategic investments, we may acquire or make investments in related businesses or products in the future. Acquisitions or investments involve various risks, such as: • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business, including the diversion of management time and attention; • the possible inability to obtain the desired financial and strategic benefits from the acquisition or investment; • assumption of unanticipated liabilities; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • impairment in relationships with key suppliers and personnel of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; • the loss of key employees of an acquired business; and • the possibility of our entering markets in which we have limited prior experience. Our common stock has only been publicly traded since 2006, and the price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially. Our common stock has only been publicly traded since September 29, 2006, and we expect that the price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate substantially. From our initial public offering through February 20, 2009, the trading price of our common stock has ranged from a low of $2.89 to a high of $43.22. Many factors could cause the market price of our common stock to rise and fall, including the following: • introductions of new products or new pricing policies by us or by our competitors; • the gain or loss of significant customers or product orders; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results; • the announcement of acquisitions or strategic alliances by us or by our competitors; • recruitment or departure of key personnel; • the level and quality of securities research analyst coverage for our common stock; 29 Table of Contents • changes in the estimates of our operating performance or changes in recommendations by us or any research analysts that follow our stock or any failure to meet the estimates made by research analysts; and • market conditions in our industry and the economy as a whole. In addition, public announcements by our competitors concerning, among other things, their performance, strategy, accounting practices, or legal problems could cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of our actual operating performance. Our operating and financial performance in any given period might not meet the guidance that we have provided to the public. We provide public guidance on our expected operating and financial results for future periods. Such guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. Our guidance may not always be accurate. If, in the future, our operating or financial results for a particular period do not meet our guidance or the expectations of investment analysts or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. Our current principal stockholders have significant influence over us, and they could delay, deter, or prevent a change of control or other business combination or otherwise cause us to take action that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. As of February 13, 2009, affiliates of Berkshire Partners LLC beneficially own approximately 19.8% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, two of our directors are affiliated with Berkshire Partners LLC. As a result, these stockholders have significant influence over our decision to enter into any corporate transaction and may have the ability to prevent any transaction that requires the approval of stockholders regardless of whether or not other stockholders believe that such transaction is in their own best interests. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change of control or other business combination that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, the significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning shares in companies with controlling stockholders. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to repay existing indebtedness and to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of our senior secured credit facilities currently, and any future debt or credit facility may, restrict our ability to pay any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of gain from your purchase of our common stock for the foreseeable future. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law may discourage or prevent a change in control, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, which could cause our stock price to decline and prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and harm the market price of our common stock and diminish the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: • dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock and additional shares of our common stock without stockholder approval; 30 Table of Contents • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; • prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; • prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws except with 662/3% stockholder approval; and • requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders’ meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years after the stockholder becomes a 15% stockholder, subject to specified exceptions. Together, these provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and of Delaware law could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 