D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Because we face significant competition, including intense competition in several of our markets, we may lose market share and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition in our 51job Weekly and www.51job.com businesses as well as in our executive search and other human resource businesses. 51job Weekly currently faces intense competition in many of our largest markets. Competitors of 51job Weekly primarily consist of local newspaper publishers and specialized recruitment advertising publications. In addition, 51job Weekly faces competition from online job search websites and other online businesses seeking to expand into print recruitment advertising. Our online recruitment services face competition from other dedicated job search websites such as ChinaHR.com, Cjol.com and Zhaopin.com, as well as from local job search websites and to a lesser extent, from national Internet portals in China, such as NetEase.com, Sina.com, Sohu.com and Tom.com. In 2005, it was reported that business collaborations had been formed between dedicated job search websites and national Internet portals with a partnership between ChinaHR.com and Sina.com and one between Zhaopin.com and Sohu.com. In addition, many executive search firms and other competitors currently engaged in print advertising have started to internally develop or acquire online capabilities. Our executive search and other human resource related businesses face significant competition from a variety of Chinese and foreign firms in all of our markets, including certain firms that compete with us in the market for online recruitment advertising. Many of our competitors or potential competitors have long operating histories, may have greater financial, management, technological development, sales, marketing and other resources than we do, and may be able to adopt our business model. As a result of competition, we may experience reduced margins, loss of market share or less use of our services by job seekers and businesses. We cannot assure you that existing or future competitors will not develop or offer 4 Table of Contents services and products which provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over our services. If we are unable to compete effectively with current or future competitors as a result of these or other factors, our market share and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. New competitors face low entry barriers to our industries, and successful entry by new competitors may cause us to lose market share and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In the future, we may face competition from new entrants in the recruitment advertising industry and other human resource industries in which we operate. We may face greater competition from Internet portals, newspapers, dedicated recruitment advertising websites and publications, and other human resource services providers who may enter the market for any or all of our services. Our businesses are characterized by relatively low start-up and fixed costs, modest capital requirements, short start-up lead times and an absence of significant proprietary technology that would prevent or significantly inhibit the entry of competitors. As a result, potential market entrants, both in China and from abroad, face relatively low barriers to entry to all of our businesses and in all of our markets. In addition, we believe that there are relatively low existing penetration rates in our markets, and that competitors could acquire significant numbers of clients and establish significant market share within a relatively short period. Furthermore, the newspaper and print media industry in China is highly regulated at present which may have the effect of limiting competition and keeping prices, including print advertising prices, at higher levels. Any deregulation of this industry may result in increased competition and a material decrease in advertising rates, including prices we charge for our print advertising services. Increased competition could result in loss of market share and revenues, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to achieve or maintain economies of scale with respect to our recruitment advertising businesses, our results of operations from these businesses may be materially and adversely affected. We incur fixed costs such as printing, distribution, direct marketing, advertising, management, staff, office, infrastructure and utilities in each of our geographic markets in connection with operating our print advertising business. In addition, we incur fixed costs relating to website maintenance, design and operation in our online businesses. Our ability to realize our desired margins in our recruitment advertising businesses depends largely on our success in posting a high volume of print and online recruitment advertisements to generate sufficient revenues to offset associated fixed costs. Further, we need to reach and maintain a critical mass of recruitment advertisements in order for 51job Weekly and www.51job.com to build and maintain acceptance among employers and job seekers as attractive vehicles for posting and seeking jobs. In some of our markets, 51job Weekly has not achieved the necessary economies of scale and these operations have not achieved profitability despite our having operated in these markets for a significant period of time. We believe that this is due primarily to significant competition from rival print advertising publications. We may be unable to achieve and maintain sufficient economies of scale in any or all of our geographic markets in connection with our recruitment advertising businesses. Any failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our results of operations from these businesses. A slowdown or other adverse developments in the PRC economy may materially and adversely affect our customers, demand for our services and our business. Substantially all of our operations are conducted in China and substantially all of our revenues are generated from providing recruitment advertising and search services for PRC businesses or divisions of firms operating in China. Although the PRC economy has grown significantly in recent years, we cannot assure you that such growth will continue. Print advertising, online recruitment services, executive search and our other human resource related businesses are all relatively new industries in China, and we do not know with any degree of certainty how sensitive we are to a slowdown in economic growth or other adverse changes in the PRC economy. In response to adverse economic developments, employers might hire fewer permanent employees, engage in hiring freezes, lay off employees, or reduce spending on print advertising, online recruitment services and executive search services. Employers may decide to rely more heavily on traditional recruitment methods such as referrals and job fairs, and utilize more “in-house” resources to conduct training and perform other human resource functions, or otherwise modify their behavior in ways that may have a significant negative impact on our business. As a result, a slowdown in overall economic growth, an economic downturn or recession or other adverse economic developments in China may materially reduce the demand for our services and materially and adversely affect our business. 5 Table of Contents If the use of advertising to conduct recruitment does not achieve broader acceptance in China, we may be unable to expand our recruitment advertising businesses. The use of advertising services to recruit employees is relatively new in China. Due to significant control and regulation by the national and local governments, the private sector recruiting process in China continues to be largely characterized by the use of personal referrals and large job fairs. We believe that the use of advertising by employers and job seekers remains relatively low. As a result, we face considerable challenges in promoting greater use of advertising, which involves, among other things, significant changes in the way that employers disseminate information about jobs, the way that prospective employees search and apply for jobs, and the way in which hiring decisions are made. We cannot assure you that recruitment advertising will achieve broader acceptance in China. Any significant failure of advertising to gain acceptance among employers and job seekers may substantially limit our ability to expand our recruitment advertising businesses. If the Internet, and online advertising in particular, does not achieve broad acceptance in China as a medium for recruitment, our online recruitment services business may be adversely affected. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from online recruitment services, which are targeted toward employers and job seekers who use the Internet. As part of our online recruitment services, we offer general online advertising on our website, which is an important element in our ability to sell online recruitment advertisements to employers and which generates a material portion of our revenues. China has only recently begun to develop the Internet as a commercial medium and has a relatively low Internet penetration rate compared to most developed countries. Our future results of operations from online recruitment services will depend substantially upon an increase in Internet penetration and an increase in acceptance and use of the Internet for the distribution of services and for the facilitation of commerce in China. In addition, unless they are resolved, telecommunication capacity constraints may impede further development of the Internet to the extent that users experience delays, transmission errors and other difficulties. Any negative perceptions as to the effectiveness of online recruitment services, or online advertising generally, or any significant failure of the Internet to gain acceptance as a medium for recruitment may adversely affect our online recruitment services business and our ability to further integrate our online and print recruitment advertising businesses. The markets for executive search services and business process outsourcing are still in the development stage in China and we may be unable to expand these businesses. Many employers in China are not familiar with the executive search model or may not accept the value of a targeted, professional search. Many employers may be unwilling to pay a commission of up to 30% of a candidate’s annual compensation. Similarly, the market for the third party outsourcing of business processes is also still developing in China. Companies may not be willing to use third parties for significant administrative functions and may instead choose to continue to perform such operations in-house. If these services do not gain wider acceptance in China, we may be unable to expand these businesses. We are dependent on local newspaper contractors in each of our geographic markets to publish and distribute 51job Weekly. In the PRC, entities engaged in publishing activities are required by the government to have a publishing license. We do not have any publishing licenses and we are, and will continue to be, dependent on contractual arrangements with local newspapers in each of our geographic markets in order to publish and distribute 51job Weekly. Our arrangements with our local newspaper contractors require them to print, publish and distribute 51job Weekly as an insert in their newspaper, and in some cases to contribute marketing support. The successful execution of our business plan is highly dependent on establishing and maintaining relationships with newspapers in all of our existing markets as well as the new markets in which we intend to offer recruitment advertising services. The term of our agreements with local newspaper contractors is generally two years, and six of these agreements will expire in 2006. In addition, certain of these agreements are subject to early termination by either party on various grounds. We cannot assure you that our local newspaper contractors will conduct their activities in full compliance with applicable laws and regulations governing the publishing, distribution and sale of newspapers. In addition, we cannot assure you that: • our local newspaper contractors will fulfill their obligations under our agreements; • the agreements will be renewed on terms acceptable to us or at all; 6 Table of Contents • our current contractors will not, upon termination of our agreements, seek to compete directly against us or establish relationships with one or more of our competitors; or • in the event that we wish to do so or it is necessary to do so, we will be able to locate and enter into an agreement with a suitable alternative local newspaper on a timely basis or at all. In addition, we may experience lower levels of readership and circulation if we lose the marketing support of a local newspaper contractor. Any adverse developments involving our local newspaper contractors could significantly disrupt or impair the publication, promotion and distribution of 51job Weekly, which in turn could damage our 51job Weekly brand name and materially and adversely affect our recruitment advertising business and our results of operations. We are dependent on our Internet service provider, and we are vulnerable to failures of the Internet, fixed line telecommunications networks in China and our technology platform. Our online businesses are heavily dependent on the performance and reliability of China’s Internet infrastructure, the continual accessibility of bandwidth and servers to our service providers’ networks, and the continuing performance, reliability and availability of our technology platform. We rely on affiliates of China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom, to provide us with bandwidth and server custody service for our services. We are unlikely to have any access to alternative networks or services in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure or China Telecom’s fixed telecommunications networks, or if China Telecom or its affiliates otherwise fail to provide such services. In addition, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by China Telecom or its affiliates. If China Telecom or its affiliates fail to provide these services, we would be required to seek other providers, and there is no assurance that we will be able to find alternative providers willing or able to provide high quality services and there is no assurance that such providers will not charge us higher prices for their services. If the prices that we are required to pay for Internet services rise significantly, our results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to protect or promote our brand names and reputation, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to generate a high volume of recruitment advertisements, maintain our relationships with local newspaper contractors, successfully promote and develop the perception of www.51job.com as a “destination site,” undertake effective marketing and promotional activities, and generally provide high quality services, we may not be successful in protecting or promoting our brand names and reputation in a cost-effective manner or at all. We may dedicate significantly greater resources in the future to advertising, marketing and other promotional efforts aimed at building awareness of our brands. Any significant damage to our reputation, the perceived quality or awareness of our brand names or services, or any significant failure on our part to promote and protect our brand names and reputation could make it more difficult for us to successfully attract job seekers, compete for customers or retain qualified personnel, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to prevent others from using our intellectual property, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our intellectual property has been, and will continue to be, subject to various forms of theft and misappropriation. Competitors copy and distribute content from our www.51job.com website, from 51job Weekly and from the training materials that we use, and utilize misleadingly similar Internet domain names and URLs in an effort to divert Internet traffic away from our website. We are also susceptible to others copying our business model and methods. The legal protection of trademarks, trade names, copyrighted material, domain names, trade secrets, know-how and other forms of intellectual property in the PRC is significantly more limited than in the United States and many other countries and may afford us little or no effective protection. Preventing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, time consuming and expensive, and may divert significant management and staff resources from our business operations, and yield limited and uncertain results. Misappropriation of our content, trademarks and other intellectual property could divert significant business to our competitors, damage our brand name and reputation, and require us to initiate litigation that could be expensive and require us to divert management resources from the operation of our businesses. We rely heavily on our senior management team and key personnel, and the loss of any of their services could severely disrupt our business. Our future success is highly dependent on the ongoing efforts of the members of our senior management and key personnel, in particular on Rick Yan, our chief executive officer. We rely heavily on his management skills, his expertise 7 Table of Contents in consumer products, marketing and technology, and his relationships with many of our clients and local contractors. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our senior management or key personnel, other than Mr. Yan and Kathleen Chien, our chief financial officer. The loss of the services of one or more of our senior executives or key personnel, Mr. Yan in particular, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for senior management and key personnel is intense, and the pool of suitable candidates is very limited, and we may not be able to retain the services of our senior executives or key personnel, or attract and retain senior executives or key personnel in the future. In addition, if Mr. Yan, any other members of our senior management or any of our other key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may not be able to replace them easily and we may lose customers, business partners, key professionals and staff members. Each of our senior executives and key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains confidentiality and non-competition provisions. In the event of a dispute between any of our senior executives or key personnel and us, we cannot assure you as to the extent, if any, that these provisions may be enforceable in the PRC due to uncertainties involving the PRC legal system. Our business may suffer if we do not successfully manage our current and potential future growth. We have experienced rapid expansion since we commenced operations in 1998 and we intend to continue to expand in size and increase the number of services we provide. We have established 11 new offices from the beginning of 2003 to the date of this annual report. Our anticipated future growth will place significant demands on our management and operations. Our success in managing this growth will depend to a significant degree on the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to operate effectively both independently and as a group, and on our ability to improve and develop our financial and management information systems, controls and procedures. In addition, we will have to successfully adapt our existing systems and introduce new systems, expand, train and manage our workforce, and improve and expand our sales and marketing capabilities. Mismanagement of any of our services in our new or existing markets or the deterioration of the quality of our services could significantly damage our brand name and reputation, adversely affecting our ability to expand our client base. As a “one-stop” human resource services provider, we will be required to provide high quality executive search and other human resource related services. As we are currently in the process of developing many of these businesses, we may encounter initial difficulties in ensuring the high quality of our services. In particular, we may be unable to provide our eSearch clients with acceptable candidates, we may provide clients with candidates whom they subsequently perceive as poor performers, and/or we may provide clients with candidates whom they subsequently fail to retain. With respect to our business process outsourcing service, we may be unable to establish a substantial nationwide capability, accurately monitor ongoing changes in PRC laws and regulations, acquire, develop and use up-to-date business and management technology and software, including sophisticated computer and technology systems that could require significant capital expenditures, and maintain the integrity and security of our systems. If we are unable to provide high quality services, if material mistakes occur, or if we are unable to price these services properly, our brand name and reputation could be damaged and we could incur legal liability to our clients and their employees. The management of our business involves the collection by our employees and agents of cash payments from our customers, which constitute a significant portion of our total revenues. As a result, we are exposed to theft, embezzlement and other criminal and fraudulent activity by our employees, our agents and third parties. If we are unable to successfully detect and prevent such activity, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. We began operations in 1998. Our limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis on which to evaluate our business. Although our revenues have grown rapidly since inception, we incurred net losses prior to 2002. We cannot assure you that we will maintain our profitability or that we will not incur net losses in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase as we expand. Any significant failure to realize anticipated revenue growth could result in significant operating losses. We will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies at a similar stage of development, including our potential failure to: • implement our business model and strategy and adapt and modify them as needed; • increase awareness of our brands, protect our reputation and develop customer loyalty; 8 Table of Contents • anticipate with any degree of certainty the behavioral and operational changes of our customers that have a significant impact on our business from time to time as they respond to evolving social, economic and political changes in China; • manage our expanding operations and service offerings, including the integration of any future acquisitions; • maintain adequate control of our expenses; • adequately and efficiently operate, maintain, upgrade and develop our website and the other systems and equipment we utilize in providing our services; • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; • maintain our current, and develop new, contractual arrangements with local newspapers and other important operational relationships; and • anticipate and adapt to changing conditions in the print, online and other markets in which we operate as well as the impact of any changes in government regulation, mergers and acquisitions involving our competitors, technological developments and other significant competitive and market dynamics. If we are not successful in addressing any or all of these risks, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on our print advertising business to provide a significant majority of our revenues and any adverse development in this business could materially and adversely affect our overall results of operations. We generate a significant majority of our revenues from 51job Weekly, which generated approximately 62.3% of our revenues in 2003, 62.7% of our revenues in 2004 and 59.8% of our revenues in 2005. While we have experienced significant growth in our 51job Weekly business in recent years, online advertisement may cause print media such as 51job Weekly to become less desirable as a form of advertising. To the extent this occurs and if we are not able to generate sufficient revenues from our online recruitment services to offset any loss of revenues from our print advertisement business, our overall results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our recruitment advertising business is subject to weekly fluctuations which hamper our ability to predict when revenue will ultimately be recognized, if at all. Due to the nature of recruitment advertising, we are not able to predict future revenue streams with any degree of certainty. More specifically, the majority of our revenues is derived from print advertising and we do not recognize advertising revenue until an advertisement is actually printed. Orders for print advertisements are generally placed week-to-week and advertisers may cancel or postpone their print advertisements within days of publication. Delays or cancellations by advertisers hamper our ability to predict when revenue will ultimately be recognized, if at all. Such uncertainty makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast revenues for a particular quarter. Therefore, actual results may differ significantly from our targets or estimated quarterly results, which could cause the price of our ADSs to fall. Due to seasonal variations in demand for human resource services, we experience significant fluctuations in our revenue streams which affect our ability to predict our quarterly results and which may also cause quarterly results to vary from period to period. Significant fluctuations in our revenue streams, particularly during the peak hiring periods around the Chinese New Year holidays and the beginning of May and October, affect our ability to predict quarterly results. During these peak periods, demand for recruitment advertising and other human resource related services may or may not rise significantly depending on the needs of employers as well as their perceptions of the job market. In addition, the dates of the Chinese New Year holidays vary from year to year. We have also experienced a trend of lower fourth quarter revenues as compared to revenues from the immediately preceding third quarter in recent years. As a result of these factors, our revenues may vary from quarter to quarter and quarterly results may not be comparable to the corresponding quarters of prior years. Such uncertainty makes it difficult for us to predict revenues for a particular quarter. Therefore, actual results may differ significantly from our targets or estimated quarterly results, which could cause the price of our ADSs to fall. We may not be able to successfully execute future acquisitions or efficiently manage any acquired business. We may decide to expand, in part, by acquiring certain complementary businesses in the future. The success of any material acquisition will depend upon several factors, including: • our ability to identify and acquire businesses on a cost-effective basis; 9 Table of Contents • our ability to integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our organization effectively; and • our ability to retain and motivate key personnel and to retain the clients of acquired firms. Any such acquisition may require a significant commitment of management time, capital investment and other management resources. There is a possibility that we will not be successful in identifying and negotiating acquisitions on terms favorable to us. In addition, we cannot be certain that any acquisition, if completed, will be successfully integrated into our existing operations. If we are unable to effectively integrate an acquired business, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, if we use our equity securities as consideration for acquisitions, we may dilute the value of your common shares or ADSs. We have not engaged in any material acquisitions. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, our executive search, training and business process outsourcing businesses may be materially and adversely affected. The success of our executive search, training and business process outsourcing services depends heavily on our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel. Successful expansion of our executive search business depends on a dedicated team of consultants with expertise and relationships in the geographic markets and industries in which our clients seek candidates. Likewise, the success of our training business depends on personnel with the necessary skills to conduct and support our training seminars and our other activities and services in this business. Our business of outsourcing traditional human resource department functions such as payroll, benefits and compliance management and related services depends on personnel with expertise in local and national PRC government employment regulations, payroll management and other human resource department functions. If we are unable to attract and retain critical skilled personnel, our executive search, training and business process outsourcing businesses may be materially and adversely affected. If we choose to develop or introduce new products and services outside of the human resource services industry in China, these efforts may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In April 2006, we formed a business alliance with Recruit Co., Ltd., or Recruit, a privately held human resource services company in Japan, to collaborate on the development of our human resource products and services in China. Under the terms of our business alliance agreement, we have also established an internal corporate planning group with Recruit to explore potential business opportunities outside of the human resource services industry in China. We lack experience and expertise in operating businesses outside of the human resource services industry. If we choose to begin any such business, we cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful. We cannot assure you that we will be able to deliver new products or services outside of the human resource services industry on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. If any of our efforts to begin businesses outside of the human resource services industry are not successful, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We may be subject to liability for placing advertisements with content that is deemed inappropriate. PRC laws and regulations prohibit advertising companies from producing, distributing or publishing any advertisement that contains any content that violates laws and regulations, impairs the national dignity of the PRC, involves designs of the national flag, national emblem or national anthem or the music of the national anthem of the PRC, is reactionary, obscene, superstitious or absurd, is fraudulent, or disparages similar products. If we are deemed to be in violation of such regulations, we may be subject to penalties including confiscation of the illegal revenues, levying of fines and suspension or revocation of our business license or advertising license, any of which may materially and adversely affect our business. We are subject to potential legal liability from both employers and job seekers with respect to our executive search businesses and other human resource related services. We are exposed to potential claims associated with the recruitment process, including claims by clients seeking to hold us liable for recommending a candidate who subsequently proves to be unsuitable for the position filled, claims by current or previous employers of our candidates alleging interference with employment contracts, claims by candidates against us alleging our failure to maintain the confidentiality of their employment search or alleging discrimination or other violations of employment law or other laws or regulations by our clients, and claims by either employers or candidates alleging the failure of our business process outsourcing services to comply with laws or regulations relating to 10 Table of Contents employment, employee’s insurance or benefits, individual income taxes or other matters. Any such claims, regardless of merit, may force us to participate in time-consuming, costly litigation or investigation, divert significant management and staff attention, and damage our reputation and brand names. We do not maintain insurance coverage for liabilities arising from claims by employers, candidates or third parties. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if successful, could cause us to pay significant damage awards. Third parties may bring claims against us alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or copyrights, or misappropriation of their creative ideas or formats, or other infringement of their proprietary intellectual property rights. Any such claims, regardless of merit, may involve us in time-consuming, costly litigation or investigation, divert significant management and staff resources, require us to enter into expensive royalty or licensing arrangements, prevent us from using important technologies, business methods, content or other intellectual property, result in monetary liability, or otherwise disrupt our operations. We expect that the likelihood of such claims may increase, particularly in our online businesses, as the number of competitors in our markets grows and as related patents and trademarks are registered or copyrights are obtained by such competitors. We rely heavily on our information systems, and if our access to technology supporting our information systems is impaired or interrupted, or if we fail to further develop our technology, our operations may be seriously disrupted. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage substantial amounts of information, including our client and candidate databases. To achieve our strategic objectives and to remain competitive, we must continue to develop and enhance our information systems. This may require the acquisition of equipment and software and the development, either internally or through independent consultants, of new proprietary software. Our inability to design, develop, implement and utilize, in a cost-effective manner, information systems that provide the capabilities necessary for us to compete effectively, or any interruption or loss of our information processing capabilities, for any reason, could materially disrupt our operations. If we are not able to respond successfully to technological or industry developments, our business may be materially and adversely affected. The market for online products and services is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent launches of new products and services, the introduction of new business models, changes in customer needs and behavior, and evolving industry standards. These developments may make our existing online recruitment services obsolete or less competitive. In order to respond to such developments, we may be required to undertake substantial efforts and incur significant costs. In the event that we do not successfully respond to such developments in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Computer viruses and “hacking” may cause delays or interruptions on our systems and may reduce use of our services and damage our reputation and brand names. Computer viruses and hacking may cause delays or other service interruptions on our systems. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions, loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. In addition, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Hacking and computer viruses could result in significant damage to our hardware and software systems and databases, disruptions to our business activities, including to our e-mail and other communications systems, breaches of security and the inadvertent disclosure of confidential or sensitive information, interruptions in access to our website through the use of “denial of service” or similar attacks, and other material adverse effects on our operations. We may incur significant costs to protect our systems and equipment against the threat of, and to repair any damage caused by, computer viruses and hacking. Moreover, if a computer virus or hacking affects our systems and is highly publicized, our reputation and brand names could be materially damaged and usage of our services may decrease. Our business could be adversely affected if our software contains bugs. Our online systems, including the www.51job.com website, and our other software applications, products and systems could contain undetected errors or “bugs” that could adversely affect their performance. Additionally, we regularly update and enhance our website and our other online systems and introduce new versions of our software 11 Table of Contents products and applications. The occurrence of errors in any of these may cause us to lose market share, injure our reputation and brand names, and materially and adversely affect our business. We are controlled by a small number of our existing shareholders and our board of directors has the power to discourage a change of control. As of April 30, 2006, six shareholders beneficially owned approximately 72.7% of our outstanding common shares, including common shares underlying options outstanding. These shareholders are: • Rick Yan, our chief executive officer and a director, who beneficially owned approximately 25.5% of our outstanding common shares, including common share underlying options outstanding; • entities affiliated with DCM – Doll Capital Management, or DCM, which owned approximately 16.7%, and which is affiliated with David K. Chao, one of our directors; • Recruit, which owned approximately 14.5%; • Michael Lei Feng, one of our executive officers, who owned approximately 7.6%; • Norman Lui, one of our executive officers, who owned approximately 5.3%; and • Kathleen Chien, one of our executive officers, who owned approximately 3.1%. While these shareholders have advised us that they do not consider themselves to be a “group” as defined under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, individually these shareholders could have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. In cases where their interests are aligned and they vote together, these shareholders will also have the power to prevent or cause a change in control. Without the consent of some or all of these shareholders, we may be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. In addition, these persons could violate their non-competition or employment agreements with us or otherwise violate their fiduciary duties by diverting business opportunities from us to themselves or others. The interests of our largest shareholders may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. In April 2006, entities affiliated with DCM, Rick Yan, Michael Lei Feng and Norman Lui, and Kathleen Chien entered into a share purchase agreement with Recruit. Under the terms and conditions of the share purchase agreement, Recruit completed a purchase of 8,452,918 common shares, which represented approximately 15% of our outstanding common shares as of December 31, 2005, from these shareholders in April 2006. The share purchase agreement also provides for an option that would allow Recruit to purchase up to an additional 14,862,313 common shares from these shareholders over a three-year period beginning April 2006 and result in Recruit owning approximately 40% of our fully diluted common shares outstanding as of December 31, 2005. In addition, under the share purchase agreement, each of these selling shareholders has agreed that it will use its commercially reasonable best efforts in cooperating with Recruit to have a representative of Recruit nominated to stand for election to our board of directors and that it will vote all of its shares in favor of the election of such nominee to our board of directors at any annual or extraordinary general meetings of our members at which such nominee may stand for election for the duration of the agreement. In addition, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue common and preferred shares of up to 20% by par value of all issued shares and to fix the powers and rights of these shares, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our common shares. These provisions could have the effect of depriving you of an opportunity to sell your ADSs at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. When the preferential tax treatment elected by some of the AdCo Subsidiaries and other subsidiaries expire, we will incur higher tax rates for these entities which could adversely affect our overall results of operations Under current rules, newly organized PRC entities conducting advertising businesses are entitled to elect to receive a tax exemption for their first two years of operation and may carry forward tax losses accumulated in those years, if any, to future periods. A number of our AdCo Subsidiaries have elected to receive these two-year tax exemptions. Upon the expiration of these tax exemptions, these AdCo Subsidiaries will be taxed at the full statutory tax rate, currently 33%. Starting in 2004, tax exemptions granted to several of our AdCo Subsidiaries began to expire which resulted in our higher effective tax rates in 2004 and 2005 compared to prior years. However, a number of our AdCo Subsidiaries and other 12 Table of Contents subsidiaries continue to receive tax exemptions which are due to expire in 2006 and 2007, and as our business expands, we may establish new entities from time to time which, depending on applicable tax laws, may be entitled to certain tax incentives, including these tax exemptions. As these tax exemptions expire, the effective tax rate of our PRC subsidiaries and our consolidated effective tax rate will increase, which could adversely and materially affect our net income. Our earnings have been and will continue to be adversely affected by the change in our accounting policies with respect to the expensing of stock options. Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for share-based compensation transactions, such as stock option grants, using the intrinsic value method (based on the discount to fair market value on the date of grant) as prescribed by Accounting Principles Board, or APB, Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” or SFAS No. 123R, which requires that such transactions be accounted for using a fair value based method and recognized as expenses in our consolidated statement of operations, effective as of the start of annual periods commencing after June 15, 2005, the effective date. Under SFAS No. 123R, we can select from three transition methods: (1) the modified prospective method, where the expenses related to unvested but still outstanding options as calculated under the original SFAS No. 123, “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” or SFAS No. 123, be charged to expense without any change in previously calculated measurement; (2) a variation of the modified prospective method, where in addition to (1), we restate for prior interim periods using prior SFAS No. 123 pro forma disclosure amounts; and (3) the modified retrospective method, where all prior period financial statements are retroactively restated based on pro forma disclosures as calculated under SFAS No. 123. Under SFAS No. 123R, we are required to expense the fair value of our stock option grants effective January 1, 2006 and have selected the modified prospective method as the transitional method. This change in accounting policy with respect to the treatment of employee stock option grants increased our share-based compensation expense in our consolidated statement of operations in the first quarter of 2006 and we expect the implementation of SFAS No. 123R may adversely affect our earnings in the future. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the market price of our ADSs. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. We will be required by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to include a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 20-F that contains an assessment by our principal executive officer and principal financial officer of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent auditors must attest to and report on their assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These requirements will first apply to our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Our principal executive officer and principal financial officer may not conclude that our internal controls are effective. Moreover, even if they conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are effective, our independent auditors may disagree. If our independent auditors are not satisfied with our internal controls over financial reporting or the level at which our internal controls over financial reporting are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if the independent auditors interpret the requirements, rules or regulations different from us, then it may decline to attest to our principal executive officer and principal financial officer’s assessment or may issue an adverse opinion. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which ultimately could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. We also may need to incur significant costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other requirements. Moreover, internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of their inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls over financial reporting can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In the past, our independent auditors have identified several areas of our internal controls that require improvement, and we are in the process of implementing changes to strengthen our internal controls. These measures may not be sufficient to address the areas that require improvement or ensure that our internal controls are effective. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, 13 Table of Contents including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in their implementation, our business and operating results could be harmed, we could fail to meet our reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on the market price of our ADSs. We have no business insurance coverage. Other than insurance for some of our properties, we do not maintain any insurance. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. We are vulnerable to natural disasters and other calamities. All of our servers are currently hosted in Shanghai. We have backup systems, but we cannot assure you that such backup systems will be adequate if there are problems, or that they will adequately protect us from the effects of fire, floods, typhoons, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, war, terrorist acts or similar events. Any of the foregoing events may give rise to server interruptions, breakdowns, system failures, technology platform failures and Internet failures, which could cause the loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware. Any such event could adversely affect our ability to provide our services to users. See “Item 4. — Information on the Company — Business Overview — Technology.” We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. We may be a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any year. Such classification could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. For example, if we are a passive foreign investment company for any year, our U.S. investors may be subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and may be subject to additional reporting requirements. The determination of whether we are a passive foreign investment company will be made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets, including goodwill. The calculation of goodwill will be based, in part, on the market value of our ADSs from time to time, which may be volatile. In general, we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company for any taxable year in which either (1) at least 75% of our gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value (determined on the basis of a quarterly average) of our assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. For purposes of these tests, cash, including working capital, and investments are considered assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. If our retained cash or investments and any other passive assets comprised at least 50% of the value of our assets, we could be a passive foreign investment company. Our determination of whether we are a passive foreign investment company is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service. We cannot assure you that we will not be a passive foreign investment company for the current or any future taxable year. If we are a passive foreign investment company in any year that a U.S. investor holds shares or ADSs, we generally will continue to be treated as a passive foreign investment company for that investor in all succeeding years. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors concerning the availability and making of a mark-to-market election. See “Item 10. — Additional Information — Taxation — United States Federal Income Taxation — Passive foreign investment company rules.” Our subsidiaries face limitations on paying dividends or making other distributions to us. We are a holding company and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our holding of the equity interests in, directly and indirectly: • Qian Cheng Wu You Network Information Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or WFOE, a wholly foreign owned enterprise in China; • Qianjin Network Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or Tech JV; and • Shanghai Qianjin Advertising Co., Ltd., or AdCo, and its subsidiaries. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely entirely on dividends, royalty payments and license fees paid under trademark license agreements and certain other contractual arrangements paid to us by our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in the PRC to finance our operations and to pay dividends to our shareholders. These royalty payments and license fees paid under trademark license agreements and certain other contractual arrangements do not require governmental or other third party approval. However, the payment of dividends in China is subject to certain restrictions. PRC regulations currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with 14 Table of Contents PRC accounting standards and regulations. Our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in the PRC are also required to set aside a portion of their after-tax profits according to PRC accounting standards and regulations to fund certain reserve funds that are not distributable as cash dividends. The PRC government also imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of the PRC. We may also experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. See “Item 4. — Information on the Company — Business Overview — Regulation — Regulation of Foreign Currency Exchange and Dividend Distribution.” If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to effectively finance our operations or pay dividends on our common shares. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure If the PRC authorities determine that our past ownership structure was inconsistent with the requirements for operating certain of our businesses, we could be subject to sanctions. The PRC government regulates foreign ownership in entities providing advertising and human resource related services. Prior to March 2004, PRC laws and regulations prohibited foreign persons from owning a controlling interest in advertising entities. This foreign ownership restriction was subsequently relaxed in December 2005 and foreign persons are now permitted to own 100% of advertising entities. In addition, until November 2003, there were no PRC laws or regulations explicitly prohibiting or limiting foreign ownership in entities providing human resource related services. Since November 2003, foreign ownership in entities providing human resource related services has been limited to 49%. Prior to our restructuring, 51net, our BVI subsidiary and a foreign entity, owned 99% of Tech JV, which in turn owned, and continues to own, 80% of AdCo. AdCo owned, and continues to own, 90% of the principal AdCo Subsidiaries. During this period, Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries conducted a portion of our advertising and human resource services businesses. We have been advised by Jun He Law Offices, our PRC counsel, that the foreign ownership percentage of Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries prior to our restructuring was above the maximum foreign ownership permitted for an entity conducting advertising operations. In addition, we have been advised by our PRC counsel that, prior to our restructuring, the foreign ownership percentage of Tech JV was above the maximum foreign ownership permitted for an entity conducting human resource operations. In May 2004, we restructured our operations to comply with the foregoing PRC laws and regulations governing foreign ownership in entities conducting advertising and human resource related services. In connection with our restructuring, we informed relevant PRC governmental authorities that, historically, our foreign ownership percentage of Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries was not in compliance with limitations on foreign ownership of entities conducting advertising and human resources operations. However, we have not received any waiver from the PRC government with respect to our past non-compliance with foreign ownership laws limitations. There remains uncertainty regarding whether foreign owned PRC entities, such as AdCo, are required to obtain special governmental approval in order to establish subsidiaries in the PRC or otherwise invest in PRC entities. Following the formation of the AdCo Subsidiaries, in connection with our restructuring we made inquiries with relevant PRC governmental authorities as to whether AdCo was required to obtain such approval before establishing the AdCo Subsidiaries. We have been unable to obtain any governmental ruling or advice on this matter. As a result, it is uncertain whether special governmental approval, which we did not obtain, was necessary for the establishment by AdCo of the AdCo Subsidiaries. The PRC government may determine that our ownership structure is or was inconsistent with or insufficient for the proper operation of our businesses, or that our business licenses or other approvals are or were not properly issued or not sufficient. For a discussion of the limitations on foreign ownership governing our businesses, see “Item 4. — Information on the Company — Business Overview — Regulation — Limitations on Foreign Ownership of Our Businesses.” Furthermore, if new governmental regulations arise in the future, the AdCo Subsidiaries may be subject to new requirements and approvals. If we or any of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities were found to be or to have been in violation of PRC laws or regulations governing foreign ownership of advertising or human resource services businesses, the relevant regulatory authorities would likely have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including but not limited to: • levying fines; • revoking business licenses; 15 Table of Contents • restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from our initial public offering and any future offerings to finance our business and operations in China; • requiring us to restructure the ownership structure or operations of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities; and/or • requiring us to discontinue all or a portion of our business. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on our agreements with an affiliated entity to provide human resource related services and to act as an Internet content provider, and we rely on agreements with an affiliated entity and its shareholders to receive all of the beneficial interest of this entity. Current PRC laws and regulations limit foreign investment in entities providing human resource related services and in entities operating as Internet content providers. We currently provide technical, consulting and human resource related services in conjunction with our affiliated entity, RAL, which is wholly owned by Michael Lei Feng and Tao Wang, two of our executive officers. RAL holds a license to provide human resource related services and we rely on RAL to provide human resource related services to our clients under a contractual arrangement between RAL and our majority owned subsidiary Tech JV. Similarly, RAL holds a license to operate as an Internet content provider. While we provide all of our online recruitment services through Tech JV, we rely on RAL to provide certain Internet content provider services to support Tech JV’s online recruitment services through a contractual arrangement with RAL. We have entered into agreements with RAL’s shareholders which enable us to effectively control RAL. Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries recognize substantially all of our revenues. The minority interests in Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries, which are direct or indirect subsidiaries of Tech JV, are held by Qian Cheng, which is wholly owned by Michael Lei Feng and Tao Wang. Through agreements with Qian Cheng and its shareholders, we have the substantial ability to control, bear all the economic risks of, and receive all the economic rewards from, Qian Cheng. As a result, we consolidate all of its interests for U.S. GAAP reporting purposes. As we rely on these agreements with RAL and Qian Cheng to enable us to provide certain critical services to our clients as well as to receive all the economic benefits of Qian Cheng, a significant disruption in these contractual relationships as a result of governmental sanction or otherwise could result in our being required to restructure our operations which could result in a significant expenditure of resources. If we are unable to restructure our operations to provide those services through a different entity, we may experience significant disruptions in our ability to provide online recruitment services or human resource related services to our customers. In addition, if we are unable to consolidate the minority interests in Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries, our results of operations would reflect Qian Cheng’s minority interest in these entities which, if not otherwise consolidated, would result in a significant reduction in our reported net income. For a description of our contractual arrangements with these entities, see “Item 4. — Information on the Company — Organizational Structure.” If our affiliated entity RAL is found to be operating in jurisdictions outside of Shanghai without a business license, we could be subject to sanctions and our revenues could be adversely affected. RAL’s existing human resource services license is limited to Shanghai. In 2005, revenues from human resource related services provided to customers outside Shanghai accounted for approximately 2% of our total revenues. It is possible that government authorities in jurisdictions outside Shanghai where certain of RAL’s customers are located may assert that RAL is providing human resource related services in such jurisdictions without a necessary license and is required to obtain a human resource services license in such jurisdictions. As a result, RAL could be required to cease providing human resource services to customers in such locations which could result in a reduction in human resource related revenues. In addition, RAL may be subject to sanctions in the form of forfeiture of profits, fines, or both. Our contractual arrangements with RAL and Qian Cheng may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses. Because the percentage of foreign ownership in human resource and Internet content businesses in China is limited under PRC laws and regulations, we depend substantially on RAL, in which we have no direct ownership interest, and its contractual arrangements with us to provide those services. Similarly, we rely on our contractual arrangements with Qian Cheng, in which we have no direct ownership interest, to realize all of the economic rewards from Qian Cheng’s minority interests in Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries. Our contractual arrangements with RAL, Qian Cheng and their 16 Table of Contents respective shareholders may not be as effective as direct ownership in providing control over their operations. RAL may fail to perform its contractual obligations required for us to operate our business, such as keeping in good standing under its business licenses. Qian Cheng and its shareholders may refuse to make payments or otherwise refuse to perform their contractual obligations necessary for us to realize the economic rewards relating to Qian Cheng’s minority interests in Tech JV, AdCo and the AdCo Subsidiaries. In addition, the contractual arrangements which provide us with the substantial ability to control these entities may be unenforceable and the shareholders of these entities may refuse to renew these contractual arrangements. In any such event, we will have to rely on the PRC legal system to enforce our rights. In many cases, the laws and regulations governing the enforcement and performance of contractual arrangements are significantly more limited than in the United States and many other countries and may afford us little or no effective protection. If we are unable to enforce our rights, we may be unable to operate our human resource and Internet content businesses through RAL or receive all of the economic rewards from Qian Cheng. As a result, we may be required to restructure our operations which would likely entail a significant expenditure of resources. We cannot assure you that any such restructuring would be effective or would not result in similar or other difficulties. For a description of these contractual arrangements, see “Item 4. — Information on the Company — Organizational Structure.” If we or any of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities were found to be in violation of PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would likely have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including but not limited to: • levying fines; • revoking business licenses; • restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from our initial public offering and any future offerings to finance our business and operations in China; • requiring us to restructure the ownership structure or operations of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities; and/or • requiring us to discontinue all or a portion of our business. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations and contractual arrangements are uncertain, and if we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, any changes in such PRC laws and regulations may have a material and adverse effect on our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including but not limited to the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death, bankruptcy and criminal proceedings. We and our subsidiaries are considered foreign persons or foreign funded enterprises under PRC laws, and, as a result, we are required to comply with PRC laws and regulations, including those governing foreign ownership in the advertising, human resource services and Internet content industries. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to future changes, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. In addition, the PRC authorities retain broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses, permits and beneficial treatments issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time under contrary findings of higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict what effect the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations may have on our businesses. We cannot assure you that any such restructuring would be effective or would not result in similar or other difficulties. We may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations. As a result of these substantial uncertainties, we cannot assure you that we will not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. If we or any of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities or any of our contractual arrangements are found to be or to have been in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would likely have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including but not limited to: • levying fines; • revoking business licenses; 17 Table of Contents • restricting or prohibiting our use of proceeds from our initial public offering and any future offerings to finance our business and operations in China; • requiring us to restructure the ownership structure or operations of our subsidiaries or affiliated entities; and/or • requiring us to discontinue all or a portion our business. Any of these or similar actions could cause significant disruption to our business operations or render us unable to conduct a substantial portion of our business operations and may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to quantify the likelihood that any sanctions would be imposed or the magnitude of the effect of any such sanctions on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to the People’s Republic of China Our business could be affected by changes in China’s economic, political or social conditions or government policies. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the: • amount of government involvement; • level of development; • growth rate; • control of foreign exchange; and • allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. For example, the PRC government could determine to limit the extent to which government controlled entities may use private sector businesses such as ours to service their human resource requirements. The PRC government could also determine to develop and support government owned or controlled human resource enterprises in direct competition with us. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over PRC economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth in the Chinese economy could result in reduced job growth and recruitment activity, which in turn could reduce demand for our recruitment advertising services. In addition, the PRC government could determine to more closely regulate the advertising, Internet content delivery or human resource industries, which could impose additional regulatory costs and burdens on us. PRC laws and regulations governing operators of Internet websites are unclear and the regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries may become more burdensome, and if we are found to be in violation of PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to sanctions. The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws and regulations, the stated positions of the main governing authority, the PRC Ministry of Information Industry, and the possibility of new laws or regulations being adopted, have created significant uncertainty regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, companies with Internet operations, including those of our company. In particular, the PRC Ministry of Information Industry has stated that the activities of Internet content providers, or entities providing delivery of Internet 18 Table of Contents content, are subject to regulation by various PRC government authorities, depending on the specific activities conducted by the Internet content provider. We cannot be certain that the commercial Internet content provider license issued by the local Shanghai Municipal Telecommunications Bureau and held by RAL will satisfy these requirements. For example, we may be required to obtain an inter-provincial Internet content provider license in order to operate online businesses in multiple provinces, autonomous regions and centrally administered municipalities. In addition, PRC government regulation of the telecommunications and Internet industries is burdensome and may become even more so. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. We have been informed that the PRC Ministry of Information Industry is in the process of preparing a draft of a national telecommunications law to provide a uniform regulatory framework for the telecommunications industry. We do not know the nature or scope of these new laws and regulations and we cannot predict whether they will have a positive or negative effect on any or all aspects of our business. Our failure to comply with applicable PRC Internet regulations could subject us to severe sanctions. The continued growth of the Chinese Internet market depends on the establishment of an adequate telecommunications infrastructure. Although private sector Internet service providers currently exist in China, almost all access to the Internet is maintained through ChinaNet, which is owned by China Telecom under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the PRC Ministry of Information Industry. In addition, the national networks in China connect to the Internet through a government-controlled international gateway. This international gateway is the only channel through which a domestic user can connect to the international Internet network. We rely on this infrastructure and China Telecom to provide data communications capacity, primarily through local telecommunications lines. We cannot assure you that this infrastructure will be developed. We have no access to alternative networks or services, on a timely basis or if at all, in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure or telecommunications networks. The Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. The PRC legal system has inherent uncertainties that could materially and adversely affect us. The PRC legal system is based upon written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not binding on subsequent cases and have limited value as precedents. Since 1979, the PRC legislative bodies have promulgated laws and regulations dealing with economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade. However, the PRC has not developed a fully integrated legal system and the array of new laws and regulations may not be sufficient to cover all aspects of economic activities in the PRC. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, published government policies and internal rules may have retroactive effects and, in some cases, the policies and rules are not published at all. As a result, we may be unaware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time later. Our contractual arrangements with our affiliated entities are governed by the laws of the PRC. The enforcement of these contracts and the interpretation of the laws governing these relationships is subject to uncertainty. See “— Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure — The PRC laws and regulations governing our current business operations and contractual arrangements are uncertain, and if we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions.” You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us or our management. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and the majority of our assets are located in China. In addition, the majority of our directors and executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these directors or executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is currently not a freely convertible currency. Under our current structure, our income will be primarily derived from 19 Table of Contents dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries and other payments such as royalty and licensing fees. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated entities to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends, royalty payments or other fees to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency dominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from the transaction, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate governmental authorities is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy resulted in an approximately 2.5% appreciation in the value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2005, which resulted in a loss from foreign currency translation of RMB11.3 million (US$1.4 million) for us in 2005. While the international reaction to the Renminbi revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in further and more significant revaluations of the Renminbi. As a portion of our assets are denominated in U.S. dollars, any future upward revaluations of the Renminbi may result in charges to our income statement and reductions in the value of these U.S. dollar denominated assets when translated into Renminbi. In addition, as we rely entirely on dividends, royalty payments and other fees paid to us in Renminbi by our subsidiaries and affiliated entities in the PRC, any significant downward revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our ADSs in foreign currency terms. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Renminbi we convert would be reduced. For further information on our foreign exchange risks and certain exchange rates, see “Item 3. — Key Information — Selected Financial Data — Exchange Rate Information” and “Item 11. — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk — Foreign exchange risk.” We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of avian flu, Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, or SARS, or another epidemic or outbreak on the economic and business climate. In 2005, there have been reports on the occurrences of avian flu in various parts of China, including confirmed human cases. Restrictions on travel resulting from any prolonged recurrence of avian flu, SARS or another epidemic or outbreak could adversely affect our ability to market and service new and existing customers throughout China. Our business operations could be disrupted if one of our employees is suspected of having avian flu, SARS, or another health epidemic, which would require that a certain number of our employees be quarantined and/or our offices be disinfected. In addition, our results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent that avian flu, SARS or another outbreak harms the Chinese economy in general. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of avian flu, SARS or any other epidemic. Recent regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies. As part of our growth strategy, we may decide to expand, in part, by acquiring certain complementary businesses in the future, including companies incorporated in the PRC. In 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued various regulations that will require approvals from, and registrations with, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and PRC corporate entities. A SAFE regulation, effective from November 1, 2005, retroactively requires registration of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies before March 31, 2006. In the event that a PRC shareholder 20 Table of Contents with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required registration, the failure would subject such PRC shareholder to personal liability and may also limit such offshore parent company’s ability to contribute additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries or its PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute dividends to the offshore parent, or otherwise adversely affect its business. Current regulations are still uncertain and unclear. It is possible that the relevant government authorities may promulgate new legislation to interpret, amend or implement these regulations in various ways. As a result, we cannot assure you that we or the owners of any target PRC business we may acquire, as the case may be, will be able to complete the necessary approval, filings and registrations for a proposed acquisition. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and adversely affect our operations. For more information about SAFE regulations, see “Item 10. — Additional Information — Exchange Controls.” Risks Related to Our ADSs The market price for our ADSs may be volatile. The market prices of the securities of companies with Internet related and online businesses have been extremely volatile and may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes or revisions by us to previously released operating and financial targets; • announcements of new services by us or our competitors; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • conditions in our industry, which is the market for recruitment advertising services and other human resource related services in China; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • release of transfer restrictions on our outstanding common shares or ADSs or sales of additional common shares or ADSs; and • pending or potential litigation or regulatory investigations. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our ADSs. The price of our ADSs has experienced significant volatility since our initial public offering and we expect the price and volume volatility with respect to our ADSs to continue in the future. The future sales, or perceived future sales, by our existing shareholders of a substantial number of our ADSs in the public market could adversely affect the price of our ADSs. If our shareholders sell, or are perceived as intending to sell, substantial amounts of our common shares or ADSs, including those issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, in the public market, the market price of our ADSs could fall. Such sales, or perceived potential sales, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Common shares held by our existing shareholders and our affiliates may also be sold in the public market in the future under, and subject to the restrictions contained in, Rule 144 under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. In addition, see “Item 6. — Directors, Senior Management and Employees — Compensation — Stock-Based Compensation Plans” for a description of outstanding options to purchase our common shares. Your right to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution of your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. Under the deposit agreement, the depositary bank will not offer you those rights unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities is either registered under the Securities Act, or exempt from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, you may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in your holdings. 21 Table of Contents You may not be able to exercise your right to vote. As a holder of ADSs, you may only exercise the voting rights with respect to the underlying common shares in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement. Under the deposit agreement, you must vote by giving voting instructions to the depositary. Upon receipt of your voting instructions, the depositary will vote the underlying common shares in accordance with these instructions. Otherwise, you will not be able to exercise your right to vote unless you withdraw the shares. Under our fifth amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, the minimum notice period required for convening either an annual meeting or a general meeting called to vote on matters requiring the approval of two thirds of the voting shares is 20 days. The minimum notice period for other general meetings is 14 days. When a general meeting is convened, you may not receive sufficient advance notice to withdraw the shares to allow you to vote with respect to any specific matter. If we ask for your instructions, the depositary will notify you of the upcoming vote and will arrange to deliver our voting materials to you. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions or for the manner of carrying out voting instructions. This means that you may not be able to exercise your right to vote and there may be nothing you can do if the shares underlying your ADSs are not voted as you requested. You may not receive distributions on common shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical to make them available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on common shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of common shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is inequitable or impractical to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs. For example, the depositary may determine that it is not feasible to distribute certain property through the mail. Additionally, the value of certain distributions may be less than the cost of mailing them. In these cases, the depositary may determine not to distribute such property. We have no obligation to register under U.S. securities laws any ADSs, common shares, rights or other securities received through such distributions. We also have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of ADSs, common shares, rights or anything else to holders of ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distribution we make on our common shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by the ADRs are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its transfer books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. In addition, the depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of ADSs generally when our books or the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. We are a company incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, and the majority of our assets are located outside the United States. In addition, a majority of our directors and executive officers are nationals or residents of jurisdictions other than the United States and all or a substantial portion of their assets are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon our directors or executive officers, or enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against our directors or executive officers. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, the Cayman Islands Companies Law (2004 Revision) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority, but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, 22 Table of Contents the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; and • to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. 