Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company is exposed to the risk factors described below. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to invest in our common stock. If any of the events highlighted in the following risks actually occurs, our business, results of operations or financial condition would likely suffer. In such an event, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to our Business Our revenues and earnings depend substantially upon conditions in the financial services industry, and a significant or prolonged downturn in the financial services industry could decrease demand for our products and services. Recently, general worldwide economic conditions have experienced deterioration due to credit conditions resulting from the recent financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and other factors including slower economic growth, concerns about valuations and decreased consumer confidence. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent economic recovery. If the economy or markets in which we operate do not continue at their present levels or continue to deteriorate, we may record charges related to restructuring costs and further impairments to goodwill and long-lived assets, and our business, financial condition and results of operations will likely be materially and adversely affected. Our revenues are principally derived from the provision of risk management and corporate governance products and services to the financial services industry. The vast majority of our business involves the sale of products and services to clients in the financial services industry including asset managers, banks, insurance companies, hedge funds, pension funds as well as professional organizations that serve the financial services industry. The global financial markets have been particularly adversely impacted by the current market environment that includes illiquidity, market volatility, widening credit spreads, changes in interest rates, currency exchange fluctuations and new legal and compliance requirements. These market conditions and the reduced business activity have had a negative impact on 20 Table of Contents a number of our clients and could negatively impact our future revenues due to the potential for declining sales and renewal rates. Similarly, we are exposed to other market trends in the financial services industry. Consolidation in the financial services industry could reduce our existing client base and the number of potential clients. This may negatively impact our ability to generate future growth and may reduce demand for our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our ISS and CFRA acquisitions could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. We have goodwill and intangible assets of $457.0 million recorded on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2008. During 2008 we recorded a $160.1 impairment charge to goodwill and intangible assets primarily as a result of the negative equity market conditions which caused a material decline in industry market multiples in the second half of 2008 and a reduction in the useful life of an ISS tradename. We evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts and intangible assets annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. The annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. Changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in additional future impairments of goodwill which could be material to our results of operations. In addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. We have incurred significant indebtedness which could affect our ability to finance our operations, pursue desirable business opportunities or successfully run our businesses in the future. As of December 31, 2008 we have outstanding indebtedness of $290.6 million. The 2008 interest costs to service the remaining first lien debt were approximately $21.2 million. In addition, we are required to make quarterly principal payments of $0.7 million beginning on June 30, 2009 and re-pay the entire amount outstanding in December 2013. This indebtedness has created substantial demands upon our available cash to pay interest and future debt principal requirements. Our leverage and debt service obligations could have important consequences to you, including the following: •The terms of the indebtedness obligations that we have incurred contain numerous restrictive covenants which, among other things, restrict our ability to pay dividends on or make other distributions or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments, incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock, make investments, enter into transactions with affiliates and sell assets or merge with or into other companies or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and tests. If we do not comply with these obligations, we may cause an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could require us to repay the indebtedness immediately. •We may be vulnerable in the event of downturns and adverse changes in our businesses, in our industries, or in the economy generally, due to our debt service. •We may have difficulty obtaining additional financing, if necessary, at favorable interest rates or at all, to meet our requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes. •We are required to dedicate a substantial portion of our current cash flow to the payment of interest on our indebtedness, and future cash flow to principal indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of funds available for operations, capital expenditures and future acquisitions. 21 Table of Contents We require highly trained and skilled management and other key employees to maintain and expand our analytical models, proxy voting recommendations and other important aspects of our product and service offerings. Our strategic direction and growth, as well as the development, maintenance and support of our products and services, are dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. The members of our research and development and operations groups have, in many cases, advanced degrees and backgrounds in quantitative disciplines, including physics, engineering and economics, and use their experience and expertise to design product and service enhancements. In addition, the members of ISS' policy board use their experience and expertise in corporate governance and policy formation to ensure that ISS' voting policies are developed and applied within a framework of corporate governance best practices. Other ISS employees have extensive experience in the process and mechanics of voting proxies. The success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, information technology and other technical personnel. In particular, Ethan Berman, our chief executive officer and a key participant in the formulation of our growth strategy to date, has been instrumental to our success. The loss of Mr. Berman could have a serious negative effect on the future development of our business, particularly if we are not able to implement an effective succession plan. We do not have employment agreements with any of our executive officers. We believe that success in our business will continue to be based upon our intellectual capital. Consequently, we must hire and retain employees with the technical expertise and industry knowledge necessary to continue to develop our services and effectively manage our growing sales and marketing organization to ensure the growth of our operations. Despite the current market conditions, the market for highly skilled employees remains very competitive and we compete for talent with some of the largest financial institutions and corporations in the world. If we are unable to retain and recruit a sufficient number of these employees at all levels, our ability to maintain and grow our business could be negatively impacted. We face competition that may cause price reductions or loss of market share. We are subject to competitive conditions in all aspects of our business. We are one of the largest providers of outsourced multi-asset class market risk management and the largest provider of outsourced proxy research and voting services. The competitive landscape for multi-asset class risk management and corporate governance and financial research and analysis products and services is characterized by a limited number of competitors. ISS competes with firms such as Broadridge Financial Solutions (which provides proxy voting services), Glass, Lewis & Co. (which provides research, voting recommendation and voting execution services) and Proxy Governance, Inc. (which provides research, voting recommendation and voting execution services). ISS also competes with local niche proxy voting and research providers in certain international markets. In addition, RiskMetrics competes with firms such as BlackRock Inc.'s BlackRock Solutions unit, DST Systems Inc., Fimalac S.A.'s Algorithmics unit, Moody Corporation's KMV unit, MSCI Barra and SunGard Data Systems Inc. We also face competition from: •the in-house operations of the businesses we seek as clients; •other general and specialized proxy reporting and business information services providers; and •other information and professional service providers. Intense competition could harm us by causing, among other things, price reductions, reduced margins and loss of market share. We could further be required to reduce the fees we charge clients as a result of competitive pressure, which could result in lower revenues and profitability. 22 Table of Contents Our ability to compete, succeed and generate profits depends, in part, on our ability to obtain data from third-party vendors on commercially reasonable terms. We currently obtain data for use in our products and services from a number of third-party vendors. Termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of a data provider's information could decrease the available information for us to use and offer our clients and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, ISS relies on our data feed agreement with Broadridge Financial Solutions which allows for many ballots to be received and proxy votes to be made electronically, minimizing the manual aspects of the proxy voting process and limiting the risk of error inherent in the manual process. If our data feed agreement with Broadridge was terminated, we would have to incur significant expenses in order to input our clients' voting instructions directly into Broadridge's proprietary electronic voting systems and our business and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Since we also compete with Broadridge in some markets with respect to providing certain aspects of proxy voting services, Broadridge may have an incentive not to renew our data feed agreement when its initial term expires or to offer renewal terms which we may deem unreasonable. Some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers. If our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors an advantage. Such exclusive contracts would hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, some data suppliers may seek to increase licensing fees for providing their content to us. If we are unable to renegotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these data suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent content, we may be required to reduce our profit margins or experience a reduction in our market share. Any perceived conflicts of interest resulting from providing products and services to institutional investors in addition to proxy voting recommendations, or providing products and services to corporations which are the subject of our proxy recommendations or other analytical products and services could harm our reputation and business. ISS' institutional clients rely on us to provide them with informed vote recommendations, benchmark proxy voting guidelines and unbiased analyses of companies' environmental, social and governance attributes. The institutional clients of both our RiskMetrics and ISS businesses, particularly hedge funds and more active institutional investors, may have material economic and other interests in the corporations on which we provide proxy analyses and ratings or which are the subject of our financial research and analysis products and services. In some cases these institutional clients pay us a significant amount of money for RiskMetrics or ISS products and services and, accordingly, there may be a perception that we might advocate a particular position or provide research that supports a particular conclusion with respect to a corporation in order to satisfy the unique economic or other interests of a particular institutional client. As a result, institutional clients, competitors and other market participants could raise questions about our ability to provide unbiased services, which could harm our reputation. Through our ISS Corporate Services subsidiary, we provide products and services to corporate clients who often use our services to learn about and improve their governance practices. Accordingly, there may be a perceived conflict of interest between the services we provide to institutional clients and the services, including our Compensation Advisory Services, provided to certain corporate clients. For example, when we provide corporate governance services to a corporate client and at the same time provide proxy vote recommendations to institutional clients regarding that corporation's proxy items, 23 Table of Contents there may be a perception that we may treat that corporation more favorably due to its use of our services. The safeguards that we have implemented may not be adequate to manage these apparent conflicts of interest, and clients or competitors may question the integrity of our services. In the event that we fail to adequately manage these perceived conflicts of interest, we could incur reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our businesses rely heavily on electronic delivery systems and the Internet and any failures, disruptions or slowdowns may adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. Technological factors may affect our ability to deliver our products and services to our clients. We depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems and the Internet. Access to our products and services and to data for our products and services, via the Internet involves security, availability, architectural compatibility and reliability risks. Our ability to effectively use the Internet may be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party Internet providers or increased government regulation. If failures, disruptions or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the Internet occur, our ability to distribute our products and services effectively and to serve our clients may be adversely affected. If our products and services or the technology foundations upon which they are built and delivered, have design or implementation flaws, or otherwise malfunction and cause harm to clients or third parties, claims may be brought against us. Changes in the legislative, regulatory and corporate environments in which our clients operate may adversely impact our financial results. ISS' historical growth has been due, in large part, to increased regulatory requirements, highly visible corporate scandals, increased shareholder activism and corporate chief executive officers and boards of directors that are increasingly concerned about, and responsive to, shareholder concerns. To the extent that any of these trends change, the demand for our products and services could be reduced, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. In addition, beginning with the 2004 publication of International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: A Revised Framework, or Basel II, which created an international standard for risk management at banks, and continuing with the adoption of Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities, or the UCITS III directives, which require European Union member countries to adopt policies governing investment managers' risk practices, a portion of the growth of RiskMetrics has been due to regulatory requirements. To the extent these regulations change or are not extended to other markets, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. Changes in government regulations relating to our business could materially adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments. It is very difficult to predict the future impact of the legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients' businesses. In particular, as a registered investment advisor, our ISS subsidiary is subject to the requirements and regulations of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The Investment Advisers Act relates to, among other things, fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an advisor and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. We may also be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. In addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the 24 Table of Contents interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. The introduction of any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. Our products and services support the proxy voting and risk analysis processes of clients. Consequently, we may be exposed to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties as a result of the operational failure of our products and services. Our products and services support the proxy voting and risk analysis processes of clients. If we were to fail to provide the services provided for in our client contracts, we could be required to provide credits to our clients and in some cases we may be subject to contractual penalties. Our client agreements generally have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or other third parties based on the operational failure of our products and services. However, these provisions could be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. Any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, could involve a significant commitment of management, personnel, financial and other resources. Any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Many of our products and services involve the exchange of information with our clients through a variety of media, including the Internet. We rely on a complex network of process and software controls to protect the confidentiality of client data, such as client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in implementation of our internal controls, client data could be misappropriated. Such internal control inadequacies could damage our reputation, expose us to litigation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. We are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. Exchange rate movements can impact the U.S. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. We do not currently hedge the foreign exchange risk of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. For all operations outside the United States where the Company has designated the local non-U.S. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using month-end exchange rates. For these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the U.S. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders' equity. In addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in operating expenses. We generally invoice our clients in U.S. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, pounds sterling, and a limited number of other non-U.S. dollar currencies. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 20% of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than U.S. dollars. 25 Table of Contents We are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. Although our expenses are generally in U.S. dollars, some of our operating expenses are incurred in non-U.S. dollar denominated currencies. Approximately 15% of our operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2008 were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in pounds sterling, euros, Swiss franc, and a limited number of other non-U.S. dollar currencies. We have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, a loss resulted from the devaluation of the value of the functional currency. As a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $1.3 million within operating expenses and $3.0 million of unrealized translation losses within stockholder equity for the year ended December 31, 2008. These losses on foreign currency exchange were primarily due to the strengthening of the US dollar. To the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations We have engaged in hedging transactions and may engage in other hedging transactions which involve risks that could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In February 2007, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate risk and to manage interest expense, and we may engage in similar transactions in the future. As of December 31, 2008, the interest rate swaps had notional amounts of $279.4 million and a fair value liability of $22.3 million. Our interest rate swaps effectively changed a portion of our variable-rate debt obligations pursuant to our credit facilities to fixed-rate debt obligations. Developing an effective strategy for dealing with movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. In addition, counterparty to a derivative instrument could default on its obligation thereby exposing us to credit risk. Further, we may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs, if a derivative instrument is terminated by us. Finally, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. As a result, our economic hedging activities may not effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Operations outside the United States involve certain risks which may adversely affect our ability to grow our business outside the United States. A significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2008, approximately 39% of our revenues were generated from sales to clients outside of the Americas. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, approximately 37% of our combined employee base was located in our offices outside of the United States. As a result, we are subject to certain risks inherent in doing business in some jurisdictions outside the United States, including the following: •Challenges in establishing local presence. In order to continue to expand our growth outside the United States, we must establish and maintain a local presence of sales, distribution and customer service by establishing local offices throughout the world. If we do not successfully establish these offices and continue to attract and retain local employees, our ability to expand outside the United States may be impaired. •Difficulty in maintaining products and services that are tailored to the needs of local clients. In order to penetrate markets outside of the United States, we must provide a suite of products and services that fit the needs of the local market. If we do not appropriately tailor our products and 26 Table of Contents services to the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the United States. •Difficulty maintaining and monitoring effective and consistent internal policies and procedures around the world. When we establish local offices and hire local employees, we must maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our offices. The various jurisdictions in which we establish offices from time to time may have differing rules and regulations affecting our operations. Consequently, it may be difficult for us to maintain consistent employee policies and procedures across our organization. If we are unable to effectively maintain and monitor consistent policies and procedures while simultaneously complying with applicable local rules and regulations, our ability to continue to grow our business and maintain our distinct corporate culture may be impaired. •Lack of local acceptance or knowledge of our products and services. Demand for our products and services are still nascent in many parts of the world. Many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management procedures or corporate governance and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. There can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. These risks could affect our ability to continue to expand our business outside the United States, which may adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues and to service non-U.S. clients. Potential Acquisitions May Disrupt the Corporation's Business and Dilute Stockholder Value Acquisitions may require significant capital infusions, typically entail many risks, and could result in difficulties in assimilating and integrating the operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of acquired companies or businesses. We have in the past and may in the future experience delays in the timing and successful integration of an acquired company's technologies and product development. In addition, key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. The acquisition of another company or its products and technologies may also require us to enter into a geographic or business market in which we have little or no prior experience. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, harm our reputation and increase our expenses. These challenges are magnified as the size of the acquisition increases. We cannot assure you that we will be able to consummate any pending or future acquisitions, such as our anticipated acquisition of Innovest, or that we will realize any anticipated benefits from these acquisitions. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition opportunities that are available at attractive valuations, if at all. Even if we do find suitable acquisition opportunities, we may not be able to consummate the acquisitions on commercially acceptable terms, and any decline in the price of our common stock may make it significantly more difficult and expensive to initiate or consummate additional acquisitions. Risks Related to an Investment in our Common Shares Our common share price is likely to be volatile. The market price of our common shares may be volatile in response to a number of events, including: •our quarterly operating results; •sales of our common shares by principal shareholders; •small trading volumes and small public float; 27 Table of Contents •changes in financial forecasts and recommendations by securities analysts or the termination of coverage by one or more securities analysts; •general market conditions, economic conditions including the recent economic downturn; and •the other risks described in this section. In addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our affiliates and other stockholders or by us may adversely affect the price and the future exercise of options may lower the price of shares of our common stock. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of shares of our common stock, or the availability of shares for future sale, may have on the trading price of our common stock. Future sales of shares of our common stock by our existing stockholders and other stockholders or by us, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of shares of our common stock and may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares of our common stock at a time and price that you determine appropriate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments As of the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K, there were no unresolved comments from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 