Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements in this section describe some of the significant risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our disclosure and analysis in this 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders contain certain forward-looking statements that set forth anticipated results based on management’s plans and assumptions. We also provide forward-looking statements in other materials we release to the public. Such statements give our current expectations or forecasts of future events; they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. These forward-looking statements are identified by their use of terms and phrases such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “continue,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “should,” “will,” and other similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions and forecasts of future results. There is no guaranty that any forward-looking statement will be realized. The achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. If any known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or if underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could differ materially from past results and those anticipated, estimated, expected or projected. Risks Related to Our Business Changes in the debt and equity markets may adversely affect our ability to acquire or sell hotel assets. We have historically used capital obtained from debt and equity markets, along with mortgage debt, to acquire hotel assets. Changes in these markets, including changes in the demand for debt or equity securities, debt pricing and interest rates, a general decline in the value of equity securities (including our common or preferred stock), and more restrictive lending standards could adversely affect our ability to obtain capital for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all. Similar factors could also adversely affect the ability of others to obtain capital and therefore could make it more difficult to sell hotel assets. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $1,722.2 million of outstanding debt, and carrying such debt may impair our financial flexibility or harm our business and financial results by imposing requirements on our business. Carrying our outstanding debt may adversely impact our business and financial results by: • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our funds from operations to make required payments on principal and interest, which will reduce the amount of cash available to us for distributions to our stockholders and for our operations and capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other purposes; • making us more vulnerable to economic and industry downturns and reducing our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; • limiting our ability in the future to undertake refinancings of debt or borrow more money for operations or capital expenditures or to finance acquisitions in the future; and • requiring us to sell one or more properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms, in order to make required payments of interest and principal. We also intend to incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions of real estate, which may include loans secured by a portfolio of some or all of the hotels we acquire. If necessary or advisable, we may also borrow funds to satisfy the requirement that we distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income or otherwise to ensure that we maintain our qualification as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes. In addition, at December 31, 2007, we had $10.8 million in outstanding letters of credit. If we were to default on our secured debt in the future, the loss of our property securing the debt would negatively affect our ability to satisfy other obligations. A majority of our debt is secured by first deeds of trust on our properties. Using our properties as collateral increases our risk of property losses because defaults on indebtedness secured by properties may result in foreclosure actions initiated by lenders and ultimately our loss of the property that secures any loan under which we are in default. For tax purposes, a foreclosure on any of our properties would be treated as a sale of the property. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the property, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure but would not necessarily receive any cash proceeds. As a result, we may be required to identify and utilize other sources of cash for distributions to our stockholders. In addition, because of various cross-collateralization provisions in our notes payable, our default under some of our mortgage debt obligations may result in a default on our other indebtedness. If this occurs, our financial condition, cash flow and ability to satisfy our other debt obligations or ability to pay dividends may be harmed. 7 Table of Contents We anticipate that we will refinance our indebtedness from time to time to repay our debt, and our inability to refinance on favorable terms, or at all, could impact our operating results. Because we anticipate that our internally generated cash will be adequate to repay only a portion of our indebtedness prior to maturity, we expect that we will be required to repay debt from time to time through refinancings of our indebtedness and/or offerings of equity or debt. The amount of our existing indebtedness may impede our ability to repay our debt through refinancings. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on acceptable terms, or at all, we might be forced to sell one or more of our properties on disadvantageous terms, which might result in losses to us and reduce the amount of cash available to us for distributions to our stockholders. If prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of any refinancing result in higher interest rates on refinancing, our interest expense would increase, which would harm our operating results. Financial covenants in our existing notes payable and those notes we may assume may restrict our operating or acquisition activities. Some of our existing notes payable contain, and other financings that we may incur or assume in the future may contain, restrictions, requirements and other limitations on our ability to incur additional debt on specific properties, as well as financial covenants relating to the performance of those properties. Our ability to borrow under these agreements is subject to compliance with these financial and other covenants. If we are unable to engage in activities that we believe would benefit those properties or we are unable to incur debt to pursue those activities, our growth may be limited. If we need to obtain consents or waivers from compliance with these covenants, it may take time or cause us to incur additional expenses. Our credit facility contains financial covenants that could harm our financial condition. Our credit facility contains, and other financings that we may incur or assume in the future may contain, financial and operating covenants, including net worth requirements, fixed charge coverage and debt ratios and other limitations on our ability to make distributions or other payments to our stockholders (other than those required by the Code), as well as limitations on our ability to sell all or substantially all of our assets and engage in mergers, consolidations and certain acquisitions. Failure to meet our financial covenants could result from, among other things, changes in our results of operations, the incurrence of debt or changes in general economic conditions. Advances under the credit facility are subject to borrowing base requirements based on the hotels securing the facility. These covenants may restrict our ability to engage in transactions that we believe would otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our credit facility could result in a default under one or more of our debt instruments. This could cause one or more of our lenders to accelerate the timing of our payment obligations and could harm our business, operations, financial condition or liquidity. Our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of debt we may incur, so we may become too highly leveraged. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of indebtedness that we may incur. If we increase the level of our borrowings, then the resulting increase in cash flow that must be used for debt service would reduce cash available for distribution and could harm our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and our financial condition. Two of our directors have economic interests in other real estate investments, including hotels, which may result in conflicts and competing demands on their time. Two of our directors, Messrs. Alter and Wolff, are actively involved in the management of entities that invest in real estate, including hotels. Accordingly, these directors may have a conflict of interest in evaluating acquisition opportunities in which we and those entities both have a potential interest. We face competition for the acquisition of hotels, and we may not be successful in identifying or completing hotel acquisitions that meet our criteria, which may impede our growth. One component of our business strategy is expansion through acquisitions, and we may not be successful in identifying or completing acquisitions that are consistent with our strategy. We compete with institutional pension funds, private equity investors, other REITs, owner-operators of hotels, franchise-owned hotels and others who are engaged in the acquisition of hotels. These competitors may affect the supply/demand dynamics and, accordingly, increase the price we must pay for hotels or hotel companies we seek to acquire, and these competitors may succeed in acquiring those hotels or hotel companies themselves. Furthermore, our potential acquisition targets may find our competitors to be more attractive suitors because they may have greater marketing and financial resources, may be willing to pay more, or may have a more compatible operating philosophy. In addition, the number of entities competing for suitable hotels may increase in the future, which would increase demand for these hotels and the prices we must pay to acquire them. If we pay higher prices for hotels, 8 Table of Contents our profitability may be reduced. Also, future acquisitions of hotels or hotel companies may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using our equity, may result in stockholder dilution. In addition, our profitability may suffer because of acquisition-related costs or amortization costs for acquired intangible assets, and the integration of such acquisitions may cause disruptions to our business and may strain management resources. The acquisition of a portfolio of hotels presents more risks to our business and financial results than the acquisition of a single hotel. We have focused, and may continue to focus, on the acquisition of multiple hotels in single transactions to seek to reduce acquisition costs per hotel and enable us to expand our hotel portfolio more rapidly. Multiple hotel acquisitions, however, are generally more complex than single hotel acquisitions and, as a result, the risk that they will not be completed is greater. These acquisitions may also result in our owning hotels in geographically dispersed markets, which places additional demands on our ability to actively asset manage the hotels. In addition, we may be required by a seller to purchase a group of hotels as a package, even though one or more of the hotels in the package do not meet our investment criteria. In those events, we expect to attempt to sell the hotels that do not meet our investment criteria, but may not be able to do so on acceptable terms. These hotels may harm our operating results if they operate at a loss or we sell them at a loss. Also, a portfolio of hotels may also be more difficult to integrate with our existing hotels than a single hotel, may strain our management resources and may make it more difficult to find one or more management companies to operate the hotels. Any of these risks could harm our operating results. In the past, events beyond our control, including an economic slowdown and terrorism, harmed the operating performance of the hotel industry generally and the performance of our hotels, and if these or similar events occur again, our operating and financial results may be harmed by declines in average daily room rates and/or occupancy. The performance of the lodging industry has traditionally been closely linked with the performance of the general economy and, specifically, growth in the United States gross domestic product. For example, revenue per available room, or RevPAR, in the lodging industry declined 6.9% in 2001 and 2.6% in 2002. The majority of our hotels are classified as upper upscale or upscale hotels. In an economic downturn, these types of hotels may be more susceptible to a decrease in revenue, as compared to hotels in other categories that have lower room rates. This characteristic may result from the fact that upper upscale and upscale hotels generally target business and high-end leisure travelers. In periods of economic difficulties, business and leisure travelers may seek to reduce travel costs by limiting travel or seeking to reduce costs on their trips. In addition, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 had a dramatic adverse effect on business and leisure travel, and on the occupancy and average daily rate, or ADR, of our hotels. Future terrorist activities could have a harmful effect on both the industry and us. Likewise, the recent volatility in the credit markets may have an adverse effect on the general economy and on our business. Most of our hotels are upper upscale and upscale hotels, and the upper upscale and upscale segments of the lodging market are highly competitive and generally subject to greater volatility than other segments of the market, which could negatively affect our profitability. The upper upscale and upscale segments of the hotel business are highly competitive. Our hotels compete on the basis of location, room rates and quality, service levels, reputation and reservations systems, among many other factors. There are many competitors in our hotel chain scale segments, and many of these competitors have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we have. This competition could reduce occupancy levels and room revenue at our hotels, which would harm our operations. Over-building in the hotel industry may increase the number of rooms available and may decrease occupancy and room rates. We will also face competition from nationally recognized hotel brands with which we are not associated. In addition, in periods of weak demand, profitability is negatively affected by the relatively high fixed costs of operating upper upscale and upscale hotels when compared to other classes of hotels. Rising operating expenses or low occupancy rates could reduce our cash flow and funds available for future distributions. Our hotels, and any hotels we buy in the future, are and will be subject to operating risks common to the lodging industry in general. If any hotel is not occupied at a level sufficient to cover our operating expenses, then we could be required to spend additional funds for that hotel’s operating expenses. In the future, our hotels will be subject to increases in real estate and other tax rates, utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repairs and maintenance and administrative expenses, which could reduce our cash flow and funds available for future distributions. 9 Table of Contents Our hotels are geographically concentrated in California and, accordingly, we could be disproportionately harmed by an economic downturn in this area of the country or a natural disaster, such as an earthquake. Approximately 40% of our hotels, the largest concentration of our hotels in any state, representing approximately 35% of our rooms and approximately 38% of our 2007 revenues, are located in California. The concentration of our hotels in California makes our business disproportionately affected by economic conditions, competition and real and personal property tax rates in California. Natural disasters in California, such as earthquakes, fires or mudslides, would disproportionately affect our hotel portfolio. The California economy and tourism industry, in comparison to other parts of the country, is negatively affected to a greater extent by changes and downturns in certain industries, including the entertainment and high technology industries. It is also possible that because of our California concentration, a change in California laws applicable to hotels and the lodging industry may have a greater impact on us than a change in comparable laws in another geographical area in which we have hotels. Adverse developments in California could harm our revenue or increase our operating expenses in that state. The operating results of some of our individual hotels are significantly impacted by group contract business and other large customers, and the loss of such customers for any reason could harm our operating results. Group contract business and other large customers, or large events, can significantly impact the results of operations of our hotels. These contracts and customers vary from hotel to hotel and change from time to time. Such contracts are typically for a limited period of time after which they may be put up for competitive bidding. The impact and timing of large events are not always easy to predict and are often episodic in nature. As a result, the operating results for our individual hotels can fluctuate as a result of these factors, possibly in adverse ways, and these fluctuations can affect our overall operating results. Because most of our hotels are operated under franchise agreements or are brand managed, termination of these franchise or management agreements or circumstances that negatively affect the franchisor or the hotel brand could cause us to lose business at our hotels or lead to a default or acceleration of our obligations under certain of our notes payable. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 93% of our hotels, representing approximately 92% of our rooms, were operated under franchise or management agreements with international franchisors or hotel management companies, such as Marriott, Hilton, Hyatt, Fairmont and Sheraton. In general, under these arrangements, the franchisor or brand manager provides marketing services and room reservations and certain other operating assistance, but requires us to pay significant fees to it, and to maintain the hotel in a required condition. If we fail to maintain these required standards, then the franchisor or hotel brand may terminate its agreement with us and obtain damages for any liability we may have caused. Moreover, from time to time, we may receive notices from franchisors or the hotel brands regarding our alleged non-compliance with the franchise agreements or brand standards, and we may disagree with these claims that we are not in compliance. Any disputes arising under these agreements could also lead to a termination of a franchise or management agreement and a payment of liquidated damages. Such a termination may trigger a default or acceleration of our obligations under some of our notes payable. In addition, as our agreements expire, we may not be able to renew them on favorable terms or at all. If we were to lose a franchise or hotel brand for a particular hotel, it could harm the operation, financing, financeability or value of that hotel due to the loss of the franchise or hotel brand name, marketing support and centralized reservation system. Moreover, negative publicity affecting a franchisor or hotel brand in general could reduce the revenue we receive from the hotels subject to that particular franchise or brand. Any loss of revenue at a hotel could harm the ability of the TRS Lessee, to whom we have leased our hotels as a result of certain Federal income tax restrictions on lodging REITs, to pay rent to the Operating Partnership and could harm our ability to pay dividends on our common stock or preferred stock. See also “Our returns depend on management of our hotels by third parties” below. Our franchisors and brand managers require us to make capital expenditures pursuant to property improvement plans, or PIPs, and the failure to make the expenditures required under the PIPs or to comply with brand standards could cause the franchisors or hotel brands to terminate the franchise or management agreements. Historically, some of our franchisors and brand managers require that we make renovations to some of our hotels in connection with revisions to our franchise or management agreements. In addition, upon regular inspection of our hotels, our franchisors and hotel brands may determine that additional renovations are required to bring the physical condition of our hotels into compliance with the specifications and standards each franchisor or hotel brand has developed in connection with the operation of our hotels. In connection with the acquisitions of hotels, franchisors and hotel brands may also require PIPs, which set forth their renovation requirements. If we do not satisfy the PIP renovation requirements, the franchisor or hotel brand may have the right to terminate the applicable agreement. In addition, in the event that we are in default under any franchise agreement as a result of our failure to comply with the PIP requirements, in general, we will be required to pay the franchisor liquidated damages, generally equal to a percentage of gross room revenue for the preceding two-, three- or five- year period for the hotel or a percentage of gross revenue for the preceding twelve-month period for all hotels operated under the franchised brand if the hotel has not been operating for at least two years. 10 Table of Contents Our returns depend on management of our hotels by third parties. In order to qualify as a REIT under the Code, we cannot directly operate our hotels or participate in the decisions affecting the daily operations of our hotels. Accordingly, we must enter into management agreements with eligible independent contractors to manage the hotels. Thus, the independent management companies under management agreements with us, including, among others, Interstate SHP, control the daily operations of our hotels. As of December 31, 2007, Interstate SHP operates 26 of the 45 hotels we own. Additionally, subsidiaries of Marriott operate 13 of our hotels, Hyatt operates three of our hotels, and Fairmont, Hilton and Starwood each operates one of our hotels. Under the terms of the management agreements with these companies, although we actively participate in setting operating strategies, we do not have the authority to require any hotel to be operated in a particular manner or to govern any particular aspect of the daily operations of any hotel (e.g., setting room rates, etc.). We depend on these independent management companies to adequately operate our hotels as provided in the applicable management agreements. Thus, even if we believe a hotel is being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory ADR, occupancy rates and RevPAR, we may not have a contractual right to cause an independent management company to change its method of operation at our hotels. We can only seek redress if a management company violates the terms of its applicable management agreement with us or fails to meet performance objectives set forth in the applicable management agreement, and then only to the extent of the remedies provided in the management agreement. Additionally, while our management agreements typically provide for limited contractual penalties in the event that we terminate the applicable management agreement upon an event of default and, therefore, need to replace any of our management companies, those events could result in significant disruptions at the affected hotels upon the termination of a manager. If any of the foregoing occurs at franchised hotels, our relationships with the franchisors may be damaged, and we may be in breach of one or more of our franchise or management agreements. We cannot assure you that our management companies will successfully manage our hotels. A failure by our management companies to successfully manage our hotels could lead to an increase in our operating expenses or a decrease in our revenue, which would reduce the amount available for dividends on our common stock and our preferred stock. In addition, the management companies may operate other hotels that may compete with our hotels or divert attention away from the management of our hotels. Our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and potentially significant capital expenditures in connection with acquisitions and other capital improvements, some of which are mandated by applicable laws or regulations or agreements with third parties, and the costs of such renovations or improvements may exceed our expectations or cause other problems. In addition to capital expenditures required by our franchise and loan agreements, from time to time we will need to make capital expenditures to comply with applicable laws and regulations, to remain competitive with other hotels and to maintain the economic value of our hotels. We also may need to make significant capital improvements to hotels that we acquire. Occupancy and ADR are often affected by the maintenance and capital improvements at a hotel, especially in the event that the maintenance or improvements are not completed on schedule or if the improvements require significant closures at the hotel. The costs of capital improvements we need or choose to make could harm our financial condition and reduce amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. These capital improvements may give rise to the following additional risks, among others: • construction cost overruns and delays; • a possible shortage of available cash to fund capital improvements and the related possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available to us on affordable terms; • uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun; • disruption in service and room availability causing reduced demand, occupancy and rates; • possible environmental problems; and • disputes with franchisors regarding our compliance with the requirements under the relevant franchise agreement. 11 Table of Contents Because we are a REIT, we depend on the TRS Lessee to make rent payments to us, and its inability to do so could harm our revenue and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Due to certain Federal income tax restrictions on hotel REITs, we cannot directly operate our hotel properties. Therefore, we leased our hotel properties to the TRS Lessee, which contracted with third-party hotel managers to manage our hotels. Our revenue and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders will depend solely upon the ability of the TRS Lessee to make rent payments under these leases. In general, under the leases with the TRS Lessee, we will receive from the TRS Lessee both base rent and percentage rent based upon a percentage of gross revenue above a certain minimum level. As a result, we participate in the economic operations of our hotels only through our share of gross revenue under the leases. The TRS Lessee’s ability to pay rent is affected by factors beyond its control, such as changes in general economic conditions, the level of demand for hotels and the related services of our hotels, competition in the lodging and hospitality industry, the ability to maintain and increase gross revenue at our hotels and other factors relating to the operations of our hotels. Although failure on the part of the TRS Lessee to materially comply with the terms of a lease (including failure to pay rent when due) would give us the right to terminate the lease, repossess the hotel and enforce the payment obligations under the lease, such steps may not provide us with any substantive relief since the TRS Lessee is our subsidiary. If we were to terminate a lease, we would then be required to find another lessee to lease the hotel because we cannot operate hotel properties directly and remain qualified as a REIT. We cannot assure you that we would be able to find another lessee or that, if another lessee were found, we would be able to enter into a new lease on terms as favorable to us. Because nine of our hotels are subject to ground or air leases, termination of these leases by the lessors could cause us to lose the ability to operate these hotels altogether and incur substantial costs in restoring the premises. Our rights to use the land underlying nine of our hotels are based upon our interest under long-term ground or air leases. Pursuant to the terms of the ground or air leases for these hotels, we are required to pay all rent due and comply with all other lessee obligations. As of December 31, 2007, the terms of these ground or air leases (including renewal options) range from 28 to 89 years. Any pledge of our interest in a ground or air lease may also require the consent of the applicable lessor and its lenders. As a result, we may not be able to sell, assign, transfer or convey our lessee’s interest in any hotel subject to a ground or air lease in the future absent consent of such third parties even if such transactions may be in the best interest of our stockholders. The lessors may require us, at the expiration or termination of the ground or air leases, to surrender or remove any improvements, alterations or additions to the land at our own expense. The ground or air leases also generally require us to restore the premises following a casualty and to apply in a specified manner any proceeds received in connection therewith. We may have to restore the premises if a material casualty, such as a fire or an act of God, occurs and the cost thereof exceeds available insurance proceeds. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Provisions of Maryland law and our organizational documents may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company and may depress our stock price. Provisions of Maryland law and our charter and bylaws could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing transactions that involve an actual or threatened change in control of us, and may have the effect of entrenching our management and members of our board of directors, regardless of performance. These provisions include the following: Aggregate Stock and Common Stock Ownership Limits. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our stock may be owned, actually or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year. To assure that we will not fail to qualify as a REIT under this test, subject to some exceptions, our charter prohibits any stockholder from owning beneficially or constructively more than 9.8% (in number or value, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or more than 9.8% of the value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our capital stock in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of our board of directors will be void and could result in the shares (and all dividends thereon) being automatically transferred to a charitable trust. This ownership limitation may prevent a third party from acquiring control of us if our board of directors does not grant an exemption from the ownership limitation, even if our stockholders believe the change in control is in their best interests. Authority to Issue Stock. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to cause us to issue up to 500,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to amend our 12 Table of Contents charter without stockholder approval to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of any class or series of our stock that it has authority to issue, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Issuances of additional shares of stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company, including change of control transactions offering a premium over the market price of shares of our common stock, even if our stockholders believe that a change of control is in their interest. Number of Directors, Board Vacancies, Term of Office. Under our charter and bylaws, we have elected to be subject to certain provisions of Maryland law which vest in the board of directors the exclusive right to determine the number of directors and the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, to fill vacancies on the board even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum. Any director elected to fill a vacancy will hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders, and until his or her successor is elected and qualifies. As a result, stockholder influence over these matters is limited. Limitation on Stockholder Requested Special Meetings. Our bylaws provide that our stockholders have the right to call a special meeting only upon the written request of the stockholders entitled to cast not less than a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders at such meeting. This provision makes it more difficult for stockholders to call special meetings. Advance Notice Provisions for Stockholder Nominations and Proposals. Our bylaws require advance written notice for stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of our stockholders. This bylaw provision limits the ability of our stockholders to make nominations of persons for election as directors or to introduce other proposals unless we are notified in a timely manner prior to the meeting. Authority of our Board to Amend our Bylaws. Our bylaws provide that our board of directors has the exclusive power to adopt, alter or repeal any provision of the bylaws or to make new bylaws, except with respect to amendments to the provision of our bylaws regarding our opt out of the Maryland Business Combination and Control Share Acquisition Acts. Thus, our stockholders may not effect any changes to our bylaws other than as noted in the preceding sentence. Duties of Directors. Maryland law requires that a director perform his or her duties (1) in good faith, (2) in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in the best interests of the corporation and (3) with the care that an ordinary prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. The duty of the directors of a Maryland corporation does not require them to (1) accept, recommend or respond on behalf of the corporation to any proposal by a person seeking to acquire control of the corporation, (2) authorize the corporation to redeem any rights under, or modify or render inapplicable, a stockholders’ rights plan, (3) elect on behalf of the corporation to be subject to or refrain from electing on behalf of the corporation to be subject to the unsolicited takeover provisions of Maryland law, (4) make a determination under the Maryland Business Combination Act or the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Act or (5) act or fail to act solely because of the effect the act or failure to act may have on an acquisition or potential acquisition of control of the corporation or the amount or type of consideration that may be offered or paid to the stockholders in an acquisition. Moreover, under Maryland law the act of the directors of a Maryland corporation relating to or affecting an acquisition or potential acquisition of control is not subject to any higher duty or greater scrutiny than is applied to any other act of a director. Maryland law also contains a statutory presumption that an act of a director of a Maryland corporation satisfies the applicable standards of conduct for directors under Maryland law. These provisions increase the ability of our directors to respond to a takeover and may make it more difficult for a third party to effect an unsolicited takeover. Unsolicited Takeover Provisions. Provisions of Maryland law permit the board of a corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent directors, without stockholder approval, to implement possible takeover defenses, such as a classified board or a two-thirds vote requirement for removal of a director. These provisions, if implemented, may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a takeover. We rely on our senior management team, the loss of whom could significantly harm our business. Our continued success will depend to a significant extent on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team. These individuals are important to our business and strategy and to the extent that any of them departs and is not replaced with an experienced substitute, such person’s departure could harm our operations, financial condition and operating results. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Lodging and Real Estate Industries A number of factors, many of which are common to the lodging industry and beyond our control, could affect our business, including the following: • threat of terrorism, terrorist events, airline strikes or other factors that may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists; • recent volatility in the credit or equity markets and its effect on the general economy and, as a result, the demand for lodging; • increased competition from other hotels in our markets; • new hotel supply in our markets, which could harm our occupancy levels and revenue at our hotels; • unexpected changes in business, commercial and leisure travel and tourism; • increases in operating costs due to inflation, labor costs (including the impact of unionization), workers’ compensation and health-care related costs, utility costs, insurance and unanticipated costs such as acts of nature and their consequences and other factors that may not be offset by increased room rates; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing and other changes in our business that adversely affect our ability to comply with covenants in our debt financing; • changes in our relationships with, and the performance and reputation of, Interstate SHP and our other management companies and franchisors; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; and • adverse effects of international market conditions, which may diminish the desire for leisure travel or the need for business travel, as well as national, regional and local economic and market conditions in which our hotels operate and where our customers live. These factors could harm our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. The hotel business is seasonal and seasonal variations in revenue at our hotels can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenue. Quarterly revenue may also be harmed by events beyond our control, such as extreme weather conditions, terrorist attacks or alerts, contagious diseases, airline strikes, economic factors and other considerations affecting travel. To the extent that cash flow from operations is insufficient during any quarter due to temporary or seasonal fluctuations in revenue, we may have to enter into short-term borrowings to make distributions to our stockholders. In the past, the threat of terrorism has harmed the hotel industry generally, including our results of operations and these harmful effects may continue or worsen, particularly if there are further terrorist events. The threat of terrorism has had a negative impact on hotel operations and caused a significant decrease in hotel occupancy and ADRs due to disruptions in business and leisure travel patterns and concerns about travel safety. Hotels in major metropolitan areas and near airports, such as many of our hotels, have been harmed due to concerns about air travel safety and a significant overall decrease in the amount of air travel, particularly transient business travel, which includes the corporate and premium business segments that generally pay the highest average room rates. Future terrorist acts, terrorism alerts or outbreaks of hostilities could have a negative effect on travel and, correspondingly, on our business. The attacks of September 11, 2001 had a dramatic adverse impact on business and leisure travel, hotel occupancy and RevPAR. While there have been improvements, the uncertainty associated with the continuing war on terrorism and the possibility of future attacks may continue to hamper business and leisure travel patterns and, accordingly, the performance of our business. 14 Table of Contents The use of Internet travel intermediaries by consumers may harm our profitability as a result of increased commissions or lower room rates. Some of our hotel rooms are booked through independent third party Internet travel intermediaries such as Travelocity.com, Expedia.com, Orbitz.com and Hotels.com. Because we may continue to selectively use these third party Internet intermediaries to generate sales, they may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from us. If the amount of sales made through Internet intermediaries increases significantly and we fail to appropriately price room inventory in a manner that maximizes yields, or we are unable to do so, our room revenue may flatten or decrease and our profitability may decline. The illiquidity of real estate investments and the lack of alternative uses of hotel properties could significantly limit our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our hotels and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more of our hotels in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market, including our hotels, is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand, that are beyond our control. We may not be able to sell any of our hotels on favorable terms. It may take a long time to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a hotel if we want to sell. Should we decide to sell a hotel during the term of that particular hotel’s management agreement, we may have to pay termination fees, which could be substantial, to the applicable management company. In addition, hotels may not readily be converted to alternative uses if they were to become unprofitable due to competition, age of improvements, decreased demand or other factors. The conversion of a hotel to alternative uses would also generally require substantial capital expenditures and may give rise to substantial payments to our franchisors, management companies and lenders. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a hotel can be sold. We may not have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements and, as a result, our ability to sell the hotel would be restricted. In acquiring a hotel, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that hotel for a period of time or impose other restrictions on us, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that hotel to address specific concerns of sellers. These lock-out provisions would restrict our ability to sell a hotel. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our hotels could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Claims by persons relating to our properties could affect the attractiveness of our hotels or cause us to incur additional expenses. We could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to our hotels or to persons at our hotels. These losses could be attributable to us or result from actions taken by a management company. Claims such as these, whether or not they have merit, could harm the reputation of a hotel or cause us to incur expenses to the extent of insurance deductibles or losses in excess of policy limitations, which could harm our results of operations. Uninsured and underinsured losses could harm our financial condition, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Various types of catastrophic losses, such as losses due to wars, terrorist acts, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, pollution or environmental matters, generally are either uninsurable or not economically insurable, or may be subject to insurance coverage limitations, such as large deductibles or co-payments. Of our 45 hotels owned at December 31, 2007, 18 are located in California, which has been historically at greater risk to certain acts of nature (such as fires and earthquakes) than other states. In the event of a catastrophic loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any notes payable or other financial obligations related to the property, in addition to obligations to our ground lessors, franchisors and managers. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed hotel. Since September 11, 2001, it has generally become more difficult and expensive to obtain property and casualty insurance, including coverage for terrorism. When our current insurance policies expire, we may encounter difficulty in 15 Table of Contents obtaining or renewing property or casualty insurance on our hotels at the same levels of coverage and under similar terms. Such insurance may be more limited and for some catastrophic risks (e.g., earthquake, fire, flood and terrorism) may not be generally available at current levels. Even if we are able to renew our policies or to obtain new policies at levels and with limitations consistent with our current policies, we cannot be sure that we will be able to obtain such insurance at premium rates that are commercially reasonable. If we are unable to obtain adequate insurance on our hotels for certain risks, it could cause us to be in default under specific covenants on certain of our indebtedness or other contractual commitments we have to our ground lessors, franchisors and managers which require us to maintain adequate insurance on our properties to protect against the risk of loss. If this were to occur, or if we were unable to obtain adequate insurance and our properties experienced damages which would otherwise have been covered by insurance, it could harm our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to recover fully under our existing terrorism insurance for losses caused by some types of terrorist acts, and federal terrorism legislation does not ensure that we will be able to obtain terrorism insurance in adequate amounts or at acceptable premium levels in the future. We obtain terrorism insurance as part of our all-risk property insurance program. However, our all-risk policies have limitations such as per occurrence limits and sublimits that might have to be shared proportionally across participating hotels under certain loss scenarios. Also, all-risk insurers only have to provide terrorism coverage to the extent mandated by the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (the “TRIA”) for “certified” acts of terrorism — namely those which are committed on behalf of non-United States persons or interests. Furthermore, we do not have full replacement coverage for all of our properties for acts of terrorism committed on behalf of United States persons or interests (“noncertified” events), as well as for “certified” events, as our terrorism coverage for such incidents is subject to sublimits and/or annual aggregate limits. In addition, property damage related to war and to nuclear, biological and chemical incidents is excluded under our policies. To the extent we have property damage directly related to fire following a nuclear, biological or chemical incident, however, our coverage will extend to reimburse us for our losses. While the TRIA provides for the reimbursement of insurers for losses resulting from nuclear, biological and chemical perils, the TRIA does not require insurers to offer coverage for these perils and, to date, insurers are not willing to provide this coverage, even with government reinsurance. As of December 31, 2007, the TRIA expires December 31, 2014. There is no guaranty that terrorism insurance will be readily available or affordable before or after expiration of the TRIA in December 2014. As a result of the above, there remains considerable uncertainty regarding the extent and adequacy of terrorism coverage that will be available to protect our interests in the event of future terrorist attacks that impact our properties. Laws and governmental regulations may restrict the ways in which we use our hotel properties and increase the cost of compliance with such regulations. Noncompliance with such regulations could subject us to penalties, loss of value of our properties or civil damages. Our hotel properties are subject to various Federal, state and local laws relating to the environment, fire and safety and access and use by disabled persons. Under these laws, courts and government agencies have the authority to require us, if we are the owner of a contaminated property, to clean up the property, even if we did not know of or were not responsible for the contamination. These laws also apply to persons who owned a property at the time it became contaminated. In addition to the costs of cleanup, environmental contamination can affect the value of a property and, therefore, an owner’s ability to borrow funds using the property as collateral or to sell the property. Under such environmental laws, courts and government agencies also have the authority to require that a person who sent waste to a waste disposal facility, such as a landfill or an incinerator, pay for the clean-up of that facility if it becomes contaminated and threatens human health or the environment. Furthermore, various court decisions have established that third parties may recover damages for injury caused by property contamination. For instance, a person exposed to asbestos while staying in or working at a hotel may seek to recover damages for injuries suffered. Additionally, some of these environmental laws restrict the use of a property or place conditions on various activities. For example, some laws require a business using chemicals (such as swimming pool chemicals at a hotel) to manage them carefully and to notify local officials that the chemicals are being used. We could be responsible for the types of costs discussed above. The costs to clean up a contaminated property, to defend against a claim, or to comply with environmental laws could be material and could reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders. Future laws or regulations may impose material environmental liabilities on us, or the current environmental condition of our hotel properties may be affected by the condition of the properties in the vicinity of our hotels (such as the presence of leaking underground storage tanks) or by third parties unrelated to us. Our hotel properties are also subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA. Under the ADA, all public accommodations must meet various Federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA’s requirements could require removal of access barriers and non-compliance could result in the U.S. 16 Table of Contents government imposing fines or in private litigants’ winning damages. If we are required to make substantial modifications to our hotels, whether to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition, results of operations and the ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be harmed. In addition, we are required to operate our hotel properties and laundry facilities in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental agencies and become applicable to our properties. Tax and Employee Benefit Plan Risks If we fail to qualify as a REIT, our distributions will not be deductible by us and our income will be subject to Federal taxation, reducing our cash available for distribution. We are a REIT under the Code, which affords us significant tax advantages. The requirements for qualifying as a REIT, however, are complex. If we fail to meet these requirements, our distributions will not be deductible by us and we will have to pay a corporate Federal level tax on our income. This would substantially reduce our cash available to pay distributions and your yield on your investment in our common stock. In addition, such a tax liability might cause us to borrow funds, liquidate some of our investments or take other steps which could negatively affect our results of operations. Moreover, if our REIT status is terminated because of our failure to meet a technical REIT requirement or if we voluntarily revoke our election, we would generally be disqualified from electing treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which REIT status is lost. Even as a REIT, we may become subject to Federal, state or local taxes on our income or property, reducing our cash available for distribution. Even as a REIT, we may become subject to Federal income taxes and related state taxes. For example, if we have net income from a “prohibited transaction,” that income will be subject to a 100% tax. A “prohibited transaction” is, in general, the sale or other disposition of inventory or property, other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We may not be able to make sufficient distributions to avoid excise taxes applicable to REITs. We may also decide to retain income we earn from the sale or other disposition of our property and pay Federal income tax directly on that income. In that event, our stockholders would be treated as if they earned that income and paid the tax on it directly. However, stockholders that are tax-exempt, such as charities or qualified pension plans, would have no benefit from their deemed payment of that tax liability. We may also be subject to state and local taxes on our income or property, either directly or at the level of our operating partnership or at the level of the other companies through which we indirectly own our assets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to satisfy the REIT requirements, or that it will be in our best interests to continue to do so. If the leases of our hotels to our taxable REIT subsidiary are not respected as true leases for Federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. To qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy two gross income tests, under which specified percentages of our gross income must be passive income, like rent. For the rent paid pursuant to the leases of our hotels to the Operating Partnership by our taxable REIT subsidiary, the TRS Lessee, which constitutes substantially all of our gross income, to qualify for purposes of the gross income tests, the leases must be respected as true leases for Federal income tax purposes and not be treated as service contracts, joint ventures or some other type of arrangement. If the leases are not respected as true leases for Federal income tax purposes, we would fail to qualify as a REIT. Our taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to special rules that may result in increased taxes. Several Code provisions ensure that a taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to an appropriate level of Federal income taxation. For example, a taxable REIT subsidiary, such as the TRS Lessee, is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated REIT. In addition, the REIT has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives if the economic arrangements between us and the taxable REIT subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. The IRS may successfully assert that the economic arrangements of any of our inter-company transactions, including the hotel leases, are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. We may be required to pay a penalty tax upon the sale of a hotel. The Federal income tax provisions applicable to REITs provide that any gain realized by a REIT on the sale of property held as inventory or other property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business is treated as income from a “prohibited transaction” that is subject to a 100% penalty tax. Under current law, unless a sale of real property qualifies for a safe harbor, the question of whether the sale of a hotel (or other property) constitutes the sale of property held 17 Table of Contents primarily for sale to customers is generally a question of the facts and circumstances regarding a particular transaction. We may make sales that do not satisfy the requirements of the safe harbors or the IRS may successfully assert that one or more of our sales are prohibited transactions and, therefore we may be required to pay a penalty tax. We also may be subject to corporate level income tax on certain built-in gains. We will hold certain properties acquired from C corporations (and may acquire additional such properties in the future), in which we must adopt the C corporation’s tax basis in that asset as our tax basis. If we sell any such property within ten years of the date on which we acquire it, then we will have to pay tax on the gain at the highest regular corporate tax rate. An investment in our common stock or series C preferred stock may not be suitable for every employee benefit plan. When considering an investment in our common stock or series C preferred stock, an individual with investment discretion over assets of any pension plan, profit-sharing plan, retirement plan, individual retirement account under Section 408(a) of the Code or other employee benefit plan covered by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, should consider whether the investment satisfies the requirements of Section 404 of ERISA or other applicable laws. In particular, attention should be paid to the diversification requirements of Section 404(a)(1)(C) of ERISA in light of all the facts and circumstances, including the portion of the plan’s portfolio of which the investment will be a part. All plan investors should also consider whether the investment is prudent and meets plan liquidity requirements as there may be only a limited market in which to sell or otherwise dispose of our common stock, and whether the investment is permissible under the plan’s governing instrument. We have not, and will not, evaluate whether an investment in our common stock or series C preferred stock is suitable for any particular plan. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The terms of our management agreements with Interstate SHP were negotiated by us and Sunstone Hotel Investors, L.L.C., which had a conflict of interest because of the payment it received from Interstate SHP for its interests in the subsidiary that managed our hotels prior to the formation and structuring transactions consummated at the time of our initial public offering. The initial terms of the management agreements with Interstate SHP were the result of negotiations among us, Sunstone Hotel Investors, L.L.C. and Interstate SHP. At the time of the formation and structuring transactions, Interstate SHP purchased from Sunstone Hotel Investors the corporate subsidiary that managed our hotels and employed the employees of our hotels and paid $8.0 million in cash to Sunstone Hotel Investors, L.L.C.; this payment was not contributed to us in the formation and structuring transactions that took place at the time of our initial public offering. As a result of this payment, Sunstone Hotel Investors, L.L.C. had a conflict of interest with us in negotiating the management agreements with Interstate SHP. We could be exposed to substantial liabilities for events or circumstances that predate the consummation of our initial public offering. In connection with the formation and structuring transactions consummated at the time of our initial public offering, we assumed the liabilities (known and unknown) associated with certain properties and entities contributed to us in connection with those formation and structuring transactions. In addition, in connection with Interstate’s agreement to purchase the corporate subsidiary of Sunstone Hotel Investors, L.L.C. that managed our hotels and employed the employees of our hotels, Interstate required that we indemnify it from any liabilities of the corporate subsidiary that accrued prior to the consummation of our initial public offering. These potential liabilities may include, without limitation, liabilities associated with the employees who currently work or previously worked for the corporate subsidiary. At this time, we are not aware of, or able to quantify, any potential liabilities which may arise as a result of our acquisition of the hotel properties and entities in these formation and structuring transactions or the indemnification of Interstate. Any such claims could give rise to economic liabilities which could be substantial and for which we would have no recourse. If any such liability is established against us, our financial condition could be harmed. The market price of our equity securities may vary substantially. The trading prices of equity securities issued by REITs may be affected by changes in market interest rates. One of the factors that may influence the price of our common stock or preferred stock in public trading markets is the annual yield from distributions on our common stock or preferred stock, if any, as compared to yields on other financial instruments. An increase in market interest rates, or a decrease in our distributions to stockholders, may lead prospective purchasers of our stock to demand a higher annual yield, which could reduce the market price of our equity securities. 18 Table of Contents In addition to the risk factors discussed, other factors that could affect the market price of our equity securities include the following: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual results of operations; • changes in market valuations of companies in the hotel or real estate industries; • changes in expectations of our future financial performance or changes in our estimates by securities analysts; • the trading volumes of our stock; • additional issuances of our common stock or other securities, including the issuance of our preferred stock, in the foreseeable future; • the addition or departure of board members; • announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; Our distributions to stockholders may change. We paid a quarterly dividend of $0.32 per share of common stock, a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share of series A cumulative redeemable preferred stock, or the series A preferred, and a quarterly dividend of $0.393 per share of series C cumulative convertible preferred stock, or the series C preferred, in each of January, April, July and October 2007. In November 2007, our board of directors authorized the payment of a quarterly dividend of $0.35 per share of common stock, a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share of series A preferred, and a quarterly dividend of $0.404 per share of series C preferred. We paid such quarterly dividends in January 2008. Distributions will be authorized and determined by our board of directors in its sole discretion from time to time and will be dependent upon a number of factors, including restrictions under applicable law and our capital requirements. Consequently, our dividend levels may fluctuate. Shares of our common stock that are or become available for sale could affect the share price Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock have been and will be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans or pursuant to securities we may issue that are convertible into shares of our common stock or securities that are exchangeable for shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2007, the Operating Partnership had issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 4.6% Exchangeable Senior Notes of the Operating Partnership exchangeable under certain conditions for shares of our common stock at an exchange price equivalent to $34.50 per share for a total of approximately 7.2 million shares (subject to adjustment for various reasons, including as a result of the payment of dividends to common stockholders). Our earnings and cash distributions will affect the market price of shares of our common stock. We believe that the market value of a REIT’s equity securities is based primarily on the value of the REIT’s owned real estate, capital structure, debt levels and perception of the REIT’s growth potential and its current and potential future cash distributions, whether from operations, sales, acquisitions, development or refinancings. Because our market value is based on a combination of factors, shares of our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than the net value per share of our underlying assets. To the extent we retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes rather than distributing the cash flow to stockholders, these retained funds, while increasing the value of our underlying assets, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our failure to meet the market’s expectation with regard to future earnings and cash distributions would likely adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Market interest rates may affect the price of shares of our common stock. We believe that one of the factors that investors consider important in deciding whether to buy or sell shares of a REIT is the dividend rate on the shares, considered as a percentage of the price of the shares, relative to market interest rates. If market interest rates increase, prospective purchasers of REIT shares may expect a higher dividend rate. Thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our shares to decrease. 19 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 