Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is primarily transaction-based, and decreases in contract trading volume would harm our business and profitability. Our transaction fees accounted for approximately 69% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2004 and approximately 75% of our total revenues for the comparable period in 2005. Our contract trading volume is dependent on the cash equity markets. In the event that a stock or index does not trade for any reason, our options on that stock or index will not trade, and, as a result, our revenues will suffer for that period. Also, equity trading volumes correlate with equity options trading volumes. Declines in the volume of stock or index trading may negatively impact market liquidity on our exchange, which would result in lower transaction-based revenues. Accordingly, our revenues and profitability are likely to decline significantly during periods of stagnant economic conditions or low trading volume in the United States and global financial markets. We derive our transaction-based revenues only from trades executed on behalf of broker-dealers and not from trades executed on behalf of their non-broker-dealer customers (i.e., institutional and individual investors) except premium products. A decline in trades executed on behalf of broker-dealers would adversely affect our revenues even if trades executed on behalf of institutional and individual investors were stable or increased. See also “—Market fluctuations, industry dynamics and economic and political factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer.” 34 Table of Contents We derive a substantial portion of our transaction fee revenues from a few significant members, many of whom are our Class A stockholders, and who, as a group, own more than a majority of our Class A common stock, may exert substantial control and influence over our business and operations through their Class B ownership and may have interests that differ from or conflict with those of our Class A stockholders who are not also Class B members. Historically, we have generated a substantial amount of our net transaction fee revenues from a few significant members. For example, our ten largest members and their affiliates accounted for 79.0% of our net transaction fee revenues for 2005 and approximately 70.7% of our net transaction fee revenues for 2004. For 2005, Citadel Investment Group LLC accounted for 14.9% and Goldman, Sachs & Co. for 13.9% of our net transaction fee revenues. For 2004, Citadel Investment Group LLC accounted for 14.5% of our net transaction fee revenues. If any of these significant members substantially reduce their trading activity on our exchange for any reason, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, our members consist almost entirely of financial services institutions. The number of these institutions has decreased in recent years as a result of a high degree of merger activity within the financial services industry. If any of our existing or future members are affected by continued consolidation within the financial services industry, our revenues might become concentrated in an even smaller number of members. Our members, as a group, control and influence our business and operations in numerous ways, including the following: • Our Class A stockholders who are also Class B members currently own more than a majority of our Class A common stock, and as a result, they will, if voting in the same manner, influence matters submitted to our Class A stockholders for approval, including electing directors and approving changes of control. Class A stockholders who are also members own a substantial amount of our Class A common stock. • Members have additional voting rights that entitle them to elect six of the 15 directors on our board. • Class B-1 and Class B-2 members have “core rights” that require us to obtain their approval in order to increase the number of authorized PMMs or CMMs on our exchange. We have no current intention to request an increase in the number of authorized Class B-1 and Class B-2 memberships. • We have, in the past, generated substantial income from the sale of Class B-2 memberships, and revenue from the sale of Class B-2 memberships is currently recognized over 14 years on a straight-line basis representing its estimated useful life. For example, from 2003 through March 15, 2006, we sold a total of 47 Class B-2 memberships. • Although we do not expect to generate material future income from the sale of new Class B memberships, we anticipate selling all of the remaining unsold 13 Class B-2 memberships and may effect such sales at any time. However, we have no present agreements with any entity with respect to the purchase of Class B-2 memberships and cannot assure you that any such sales will occur. • In addition to their limited right to vote on certain of our corporate governance matters, our members engage in trading activities that constitute a primary source of our revenues. Our dependence on our members for revenues gives them substantial influence over how we operate our business. Class B-1 and Class B-2 memberships, which represent the right to trade on our exchange and certain limited voting rights, have substantial independent value. The amount of income that members derive from their trading activities on our exchange and the value of their Class B memberships is, in part, dependent on the fees they are charged to access and trade on our exchange and the rules and market structure of our exchange. As a result, holders of our Class A common stock who are not also members may not have the same economic interests as holders of our Class A common stock who are also members. In addition, our members may have differing interests among themselves depending on the role they serve in our markets, their methods of trading and the products they trade. Consequently, members may advocate that we enhance and protect their trading 35 Table of Contents opportunities and the value of their Class B memberships over their economic interest in us as Class A stockholders. In addition, Class B memberships, which entitle our members to board representation rights and core rights, could be used to influence how our business is changed or developed, including how we address competition and how we seek to grow our volume and revenue and enhance value for our Class A stockholders. Our members elect six of our 15 directors and each such director is affiliated with a member, and, in some instances, the affiliated member is also a holder of Class A common stock. Our cost structure is largely fixed. If our revenues decline and we are unable to reduce our costs, our profitability will be adversely affected. Our cost structure is largely fixed. We base our cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services. If demand for our products and services and our resulting revenues decline, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis. In that event, our profitability would be adversely affected. We face substantial competition that could negatively impact our contract trading volume and our profitability. The financial services industry and, in particular, the options trading business in which we engage are very competitive, and we expect competition to continue to intensify in the future. Our current and prospective competitors, both domestically and around the world, are numerous. They include securities and securities options exchanges and futures exchanges. Other companies have entered into or may form joint ventures or consortia to provide services similar to those provided by us. Others may become competitive with us through acquisitions. There have been several developments involving consolidations and alliances in the securities marketplace: • In the summer of 2005, Merrill Lynch & Co., Citadel Investment Group, LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, UBS Securities LLC, Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and Citigroup Derivative Markets Inc. acquired in the aggregate an almost 50% equity stake in PHLX, with provisions that allow for each firm to obtain additional equity stakes based on specific performance criteria. • In July 2005, BSE received approval from the SEC to transfer a portion of its ownership interest in BOX. • On December 8, 2005, Nasdaq acquired Instinet Group Incorporated’s subsidiary, INET ECN. Also, on August 25, 2005, Nasdaq announced that it would begin to offer customers connectivity and routing to options exchanges in the first quarter of 2006, and on January 16, 2006, the SEC approved Nasdaq as a national securities exchange and SRO. • On March 7, 2006, NYSE and Archipelago Holdings, Inc. merged to create NYSE Group, Inc. As a result of the merger, NYSE Group acquired PCX, one of our competitors. Consolidations and alliances among our current competitors may create larger liquidity pools than we offer. The resulting larger liquidity pools may attract orders away from us, leading to a decline in our trading volumes and liquidity which would result in decreased revenues. In addition, consolidations or alliances among our current competitors may achieve cost reductions or other increases in efficiency, which may allow them to offer better prices or services than we do. At this time, it is unclear what effect, if any, these consolidations and alliances will ultimately have upon the competitive landscape of the options industry if exchanges become part of larger, well-capitalized organizations. Many of our competitors and potential competitors may have greater financial, marketing, technological and personnel resources than we do. These factors may enable them to develop similar products, to provide lower transaction costs and better execution to their customers and to carry out their business strategies more quickly and efficiently than we can, any of which may result in a decrease in our market share. Our competitors may: • respond more quickly to competitive pressures due to their corporate structures, which may be more flexible and efficient than our corporate structure; 36 Table of Contents • develop products that are preferred by our members; • develop risk transfer products that compete with our products; • price their products and services more competitively; • develop and expand their network infrastructure and service offerings more efficiently; • utilize better, more user-friendly and more reliable technology; • consolidate and form alliances, which may create higher volume, cost reduction and better pricing than we offer; • more effectively market, promote and sell their products and services; and • better leverage existing relationships with customers and alliance partners or exploit better recognized brand names to market and sell their services. In addition, our competitors may seek to attract contract trading volume from us through internalization of order flow and preferencing practices. Internalization of order flow occurs when a broker-dealer trades against its own customers’ orders. Preferencing allows order entry firms to direct order flow to certain market makers. Currently, our rules permit our members to trade with a certain percentage of their own customers’ orders after an auction in which other members have an opportunity to participate in that trade. If other exchanges succeed in amending their rules to permit order flow providers to internalize a higher percentage of customer orders than we can now permit, those exchanges may succeed in attracting contract trading volume and revenue from us before we are able to amend our rules and/or make system adjustments. In addition, if other options exchanges are more successful in attracting preferenced orders, this may result in a decrease in our market share. We face substantial competition from well-established competitors that could negatively impact our contract trading volume and profitability. We currently face substantial competition from the five other options exchanges now operating in the United States: CBOE, AMEX, PHLX, PCX, and BOX. While we benefited from an initial advantage due to our low-cost, all-electronic model, that advantage has begun to dissipate and will continue to dissipate. All exchanges now have some form of an electronic trading system, some of which operate in tandem with a physical trading floor. These changes in their operations threaten to curb the growth of our contract trading volume or decrease our contract trading volume. For example, CBOE launched its CBOEdirect HyTS platform, which allows market makers to input real-time quotes into its electronic trading system. AMEX introduced its ANTE trading system which allows non-specialist market makers to improve AMEX’s quoted price and have that improved price be displayed as the best exchange quote. In addition, AMEX recently announced that it plans to implement a new hybrid market structure, initially limited to equity products and ETFs, that will provide for a single marketplace that integrates automatic execution and floor-based auction trading. To facilitate this hybrid market, AMEX will implement a new trading platform designated as the AEMI platform. The PHLX XL and PCX PLUS systems are PHLX and PCX electronic platforms, respectively, which are similarly intended to drive down costs and compete with us for contract trading volume. As a result, we have seen that the bid/ask spreads of other exchanges, with the exception of AMEX, are now similar to the narrow bid/ask spreads of our exchange. We may face additional competition from new entrants that could negatively impact our contract trading volume and profitability. We may also be adversely affected by competition from new entrants into our markets. Competition within the options trading industry could increase if new options exchanges are established or if existing securities exchanges that do not currently trade options determine to do so. On March 7, 2006, NYSE entered our markets through its merger with Archipelago Holdings, Inc. The experiences of ISE and BOX, which commenced operations in February 2004, indicate that the regulatory and financial barriers to entry for new exchanges are surmountable. The appearance of new competitors may reduce margins for all existing options exchanges, 37 Table of Contents including us, and increase the importance of scale efficiencies. For example, Eurex, the world’s largest futures exchange for euro-denominated derivative instruments, established a new futures exchange in the United States to trade, among other things, options on futures. Eurex U.S. and other existing securities exchanges that do not currently trade equity options may already have some of the operational and technological infrastructure required to do so and may also be accustomed to operating under regulatory regimes similar to the one to which we are subject. In order to trade equity options in the United States, Eurex U.S. would be required to register with the SEC and may have taken preliminary steps to do so. Our ability to continually maintain and enhance our competitiveness and respond to threats from existing or new competitors will have a direct impact on our results of operations. There is no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively. If our products, markets and services are not competitive, our business, financial condition and operating results will be materially harmed. In addition, even if new entrants do not significantly erode our contract trading volume, we may be required to reduce our fees significantly to remain competitive, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. We are dependent on our executive officers and other key personnel, and we may not be able to execute our current business strategy effectively or recognize and pursue new strategic opportunities and initiatives if we lose them. Our future success depends, in large part, upon the individual employees who represent us in dealings with our members, execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. In particular, we are highly dependent on the continued services of David Krell, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Gary Katz, our Chief Operating Officer, Daniel P. Friel, our Chief Information Officer, and other executive officers, key employees and technical personnel who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. The diminution or loss of the services of David Krell, Gary Katz or Daniel P. Friel for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from that diminution or loss, would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have entered into employment agreements with David Krell, Gary Katz, Daniel P. Friel and all our executive officers. These agreements are important to the future of our business, and if we were to lose our rights under these agreements for any reason, including as a result of David Krell’s, Gary Katz’s or Daniel P. Friel’s voluntary resignation or retirement, our business may be materially adversely affected. We may have to incur costs to replace key employees that leave, and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace departing employees in a timely manner. Competition in our industry for financial and technical personnel is intense. Prospective investors cannot be assured that we would be able to find an appropriate replacement for David Krell, Gary Katz, Daniel P. Friel or any other executive officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel if the need should arise. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our executive officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. If we lose the services of any executive officers or other key personnel, we may not be able to manage and grow our operations effectively, enter new markets or develop new products. We also may have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring, training and retaining replacements for departing employees. In addition, significant losses of key personnel, particularly to other options exchanges with which we compete, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are dependent on certain material contracts relating to our technology. We currently have two principal contracts, the DLA and the Support Agreement, with OMX. OMX specializes in developing and supporting software for electronic exchanges and has delivered electronic trading systems to a number of international exchanges and clearing houses. Under the DLA, OMX granted certain licenses to us related to the use of certain software products, including the CLICK™ Exchange platform, which has been adapted for our central exchange system, and CLICK Trade™, a trading application for entering orders and quotes and viewing market information. Under the DLA, OMX has also granted to us the right to sub-license the use of CLICK Trade™ to our members. The scope of the DLA allows us to use the CLICK™ trading platform in the United States for equities products based on cash and derivatives, as well as for derivatives on fixed 38 Table of Contents income, currency and commodities. OMX’s platform and software, which are the subject of various patents, form a substantial portion of our central exchange system. The term of the licenses for the software products pursuant to the DLA is 99 years from March 18, 1998. These licenses are integral to our business and are generally terminable by OMX if we breach the terms of the licenses or fail to perform any obligation under the licenses, such as maintaining confidentiality and keeping a record of all sublicenses, or fail to perform any obligation under the DLA, including payment obligations. In the event of termination, we are required to return OMX’s platform and software and all related documentation. Under the Support Agreement, OMX undertook to provide us with customer service and support with respect to our use and operation of the software that it licensed to us and also undertook to develop and deliver corrective releases and enhancements. The Support Agreement will automatically terminate prior to its expiration on December 23, 2010, if the DLA or the license to the software products covered by the DLA is terminated. In addition, OMX is entitled to terminate the Support Agreement if we fail to perform any of our material obligations thereunder, such as a default of payment that continues for 30 days. See “Business—Technology—Technology Partners.” The premature termination of either of these agreements, or the inability of OMX to fulfill its obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons, and the consequent loss of software or support by OMX would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We could be forced to spend significant time and money to replace the licensed software and services, and we cannot provide any assurance that replacements would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights or our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others could adversely affect our business. We rely primarily on trade secret, copyright, trademark and patent law and contractual protections to protect our proprietary technology and other proprietary rights. As a fully electronic exchange, we are dependent on technology and related intellectual property rights, and therefore more vulnerable to intellectual property rights infringements. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights. In the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to defend ourselves against the assertion of intellectual property rights by others. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources and the attention of management, any of which could negatively affect our business. Also, we may choose not to enforce our infringed intellectual property rights, depending on our strategic evaluation and judgment regarding the best use of our intellectual property portfolio and the recourse available to us. Patents of third parties may have an important bearing on our ability to offer certain of our products and services. Our competitors, as well as other companies and individuals, may obtain or may have obtained patents related to the technologies for trading the types of products and providing the services we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. In addition, some patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued and, therefore, we cannot evaluate the extent to which technology concerning our products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered by claims contained in pending patent applications. In general, if one or more of our products or services were found by a court to infringe patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to obtain licenses to develop and market the services from the holders of the patents or to redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing those patents. For example, on January 5, 2005, we announced our plans to list options on SPDRs®, an ETF commonly referred to as “Spiders.” The following day, McGraw-Hill obtained a temporary restraining order from a federal court in the Southern District of New York barring us from listing options on SPDRs® without a license from 39 Table of Contents McGraw-Hill for the use of, among other things, the S&P 500 Index and related trademarks. Effective as of January 10, 2005, we became party to a definitive five-year license agreement with McGraw-Hill authorizing us to list options on SPDRs®, which does not prejudice our position that we do not need a license from McGraw-Hill to list options on SPDRs®. In May 2005, we announced our plans to list options on DIAMONDS®, another ETF. Subsequent to our announcement, Dow Jones obtained a temporary restraining order barring us from listing options on DIAMONDS® without a license. However, unlike SPDRs®, we did not enter into a license agreement with Dow Jones authorizing us to list options on DIAMONDS® during the litigation. The SDPRs® and DIAMONDS® litigation were consolidated into one matter, by court order and a hearing was held on Dow Jones’ motion for a preliminary injunction. On September 1, 2005, the court issued an opinion and order granting our motion to dismiss McGraw-Hill’s complaint and denying Dow Jones’ motion for a preliminary injunction. On September 1, 2005 we listed options on DIAMONDS®. On September 6, 2005, we entered into a stipulation of dismissal with Dow Jones pursuant to which Dow Jones’ complaint was also dismissed in its entirety with prejudice. Dow Jones and McGraw-Hill have each filed an appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. We expect a decision from the appeals court sometime in 2006. See “Business—Our Growth Strategy.” We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, and are unable to redesign our products or services to avoid infringement of any such patents, this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. An adverse ruling arising out of any intellectual property dispute could also subject us to significant liability for damages. We have a short operating history. This makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects, may increase the risk that we will not continue to be successful and increases the risk of your investment. We began our operations as the first fully electronic equity options exchange in the United States on May 26, 2000, and therefore we have very little operating history for you to evaluate in assessing our future prospects. As a result, our historical and recent financial business results may not be representative of what they may be in the future. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our growth will continue at the same rate or at all or that we will not experience declines in revenue and profitability in the future. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we will encounter as an early-stage company with a new business model for an equity and index options exchange. We may have difficulty executing our growth strategy and managing our growth effectively. We have experienced significant growth in our business activities over the last few years, which has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and resources. Continued growth will require continued investment in personnel, facilities, information technology infrastructure and financial and management systems and controls. We may not be successful in implementing all of the processes that are necessary to support our growth. Unless our growth results in an increase in our revenues that is proportionate to the increase in our costs associated with this growth, our gross margin and our future profitability will be adversely affected, and we may have to incur significant expenditures to address the additional operational and control requirements of this growth. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to continue to evaluate potential acquisition opportunities and strategic alliances in the future. Any such transaction may be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets and operations. The market for acquisition targets and strategic alliances is highly competitive, particularly in light of increasing consolidation, which may adversely affect our ability to find acquisition candidates or strategic partners that fit our growth strategy and our investment parameters. These transactions involve numerous risks, including, among others: • failure to achieve financial or operating objectives; 40 Table of Contents • failure to integrate successfully and in a timely manner any operations, products, services or technology we may acquire or combine with in a strategic alliance; • diversion of the attention of management and other key personnel; • failure to obtain necessary regulatory or other approvals; • potential loss of members or personnel; and • failure to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms. Failure to manage successfully any potential acquisition we may make in the future could adversely affect our growth strategy and our future profitability. We may face similar risks in managing future strategic alliances. The up-front costs of expanding, improving and upgrading our trading platform may not produce substantial revenue. We have made, and expect to continue to make, significant up-front investments in our trading platform, including investments in technology, infrastructure and dedicated personnel, in order to pursue new growth opportunities. We may incur substantial development, sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort to add a new product or service to our trading platform. Even after incurring these costs, we ultimately may not sell any or may sell only small amounts of these products or services. Consequently, if revenue does not increase in a timely fashion as a result of these expansion initiatives, the up-front costs associated with expansion may exceed revenue and reduce our working capital and income. Computer systems failures or capacity constraints could harm our business. We support and maintain many of our computer systems and networks internally. Our failure to monitor or maintain these systems and networks or, if necessary, to find a replacement for such technology in a timely and cost-effective manner would have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our operations. Our systems are located in downtown New York City and our back-up facilities are located in Jersey City, New Jersey, and the causes for the disruption at one facility may also disrupt our systems at the other facility. In these circumstances, our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans may not be adequate. Similarly, although many of our contracts with our service providers require them to have disaster recovery plans, we cannot be certain that these will be adequate or implemented properly. Our systems, or those of our third party providers, may fail, provide insufficient capacity or operate slowly, causing one or more of the following: • unanticipated disruptions in service to our members; • slower response times; • delays in our members’ trade executions; • decreased satisfaction by members with our service; • incomplete, untimely or inaccurate accounting, recording, reporting or processing of trades; • financial losses; and • litigation or other claims. We cannot assure you that we will not experience systems failures or periods of insufficient systems capacity from shortages of available bandwidth, power or telecommunications failure, acts of God, war, terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, power loss, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism and similar events. 41 Table of Contents If the equity and index options markets adopt trading in penny increments, the liquidity in our markets could be adversely affected and could result in an adverse effect on our profitability. The listed equity and index options markets currently quote in 5- and 10-cent increments. There continues to be discussion by industry observers of the possibility of migrating options to quote and trade in penny increments as they currently do in the equities marketplace. There have been increasing actions to support these observations—if not quoting in pennies, then at least allowing trading in pennies. For example, BOX in 2004 and ISE in 2005 introduced functionality that allows broker-dealers to trade orders in pennies as long as the price improves upon the NBBO. CBOE received approval for a similar proposal on February 3, 2006. AMEX has a pending proposal with the SEC that would allow its members to trade in penny increments in certain circumstances. Additionally, we have a pending proposal with the SEC that would permit all legs of an options-only complex order to be executed in penny increments. PCX announced in June 2005 its intention to seek approval from the SEC to begin quoting and trading all listed options in penny increments. We also continue to contemplate adding functionality that would allow additional trading in pennies. If the options markets adopt trading in penny increments, market makers may be unable to provide the depth of liquidity they are currently able to provide in larger increments. For example, an option trading in penny increments has ten times the number of price points as an option trading in 10-cent increments. Thus, for every 10-cent price point a market maker is currently willing to quote, it might make several penny price point quotes of smaller size. To the extent that market makers are unwilling to increase the aggregate dollar amount they quote, quote size would likely be diluted as they spread their quotes across more price points. As a result, our markets could lose depth and attract less order flow, thereby reducing our contract trading volume and revenue. In addition, penny trading could lead to a decrease in liquidity for large size orders and decreased market makers’ profitability throughout our industry, which could lead to pricing pressures on options exchanges, including us. On February 9, 2006, we and certain of our members sent a private letter to the Chairman of the SEC regarding trading and quoting in penny increments. If the options markets adopt trading in penny increments, we could experience systems interruptions and substantial increased costs, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In the event that the equity and index options markets generally adopt trading in penny increments, as the stock markets have, we would expect significant increases in quotation traffic. Quotation traffic has grown considerably in the past few years as a result of increases in the number of actively traded options series and greater reliance by all exchanges on electronic trading systems for transmitting and updating quotations. Substantial increases in bandwidth capacity are required for the exchanges to transmit properly the increased volume of quotations. We expect that any significant move to trading in penny increments, whether mandated by the SEC, competitive forces or otherwise, would result in a shortage of bandwidth capacity that would require us to make immediate improvements to our technology infrastructure. Any systems failure or periods of insufficient systems capacity that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our service, including failures caused by error or misuse of our systems, could damage our reputation, business and brand name. Our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. Additionally, penny increment trading could lead to increased costs across the industry to upgrade broker-dealer, exchange and market data provider systems to handle increased quote traffic, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on third party suppliers and service providers for a number of services that are important to our business. An interruption or cessation of an important supply or service by any third party could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on a number of suppliers, such as banking, clearing and settlement organizations such as OCC, processors of market information generated by the trading of options such as OPRA, telecommunications companies such as MCI, online service providers, other data processors and software and hardware vendors, such as OMX and Hewlett-Packard Company, or H-P, for elements of our trading, clearing and other systems, as well as communications and networking equipment, computer hardware and software and related support and 42 Table of Contents maintenance. We cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. An interruption or malfunction in or the cessation of an important supply or service by any third party and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a timely manner, or at all, would result in lost revenue and higher costs. Our networks and those of our third party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks, which could result in wrongful use of our information or cause interruptions in our operations that cause us to lose members and contract trading volume and result in significant liabilities. We could also be required to incur significant expense to protect our systems. We expect the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks to continue to be a critical element of our operations. Our networks and those of our third party service providers and our members may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Any of these events could cause us to lose members or contract trading volume. We may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems, including reputational harm and litigation, caused by breaches. Our security measures may prove to be inadequate and result in system failures and delays that could cause us to lose members, experience lower contract trading volume and incur significant liabilities. Expansion of our operations internationally involves special challenges that we may not be able to meet, which could adversely affect our financial results. One component of our future strategy is to expand our operations internationally, including by directly placing order entry terminals with members outside the United States and by relying on distribution systems established by our future strategic alliance partners. We face certain risks inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in the regulated derivatives exchange business. These risks include: • restrictions on the use of trading terminals or the contracts that may be traded; • becoming subject to extensive regulations and oversight, tariffs and other trade barriers; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • strong competition; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, we will be required to comply with the laws and regulations of foreign governmental and regulatory authorities of each country in which we conduct business. These may include laws, rules and regulations relating to any aspect of the derivatives business. To date, we have had limited experience in marketing and operating our products and services internationally. We cannot assure you that we will be able to succeed in marketing our products and services in international markets. We may also experience difficulty in managing our international operations because of, among other things, competitive conditions overseas, management of foreign exchange risk, established domestic markets in areas which we may consider, language and cultural differences and economic or political instability. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the success of our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business is highly dependent on equity options, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our strong dependence upon revenues derived from the transaction-based equity options business may place us at a competitive disadvantage. The revenues of some of our competitors may be more diversified than ours as a result of their broader product offerings. For example, CBOE realizes revenues from trading certain options on 43 Table of Contents stock market indexes, for which CBOE has acquired exclusive licenses. While options on equities are cross-listed on multiple exchanges, the most heavily traded index options are traded exclusively on a single exchange so that we are unable to meaningfully compete in that market. We do not believe we will earn significant revenues from index trading until the exclusive licensing of indexes ends, or existing non-exclusive or new non-exclusive indexes gain in volume. Lower revenues from transaction fees or market data fees on equity options may impact our operating results and future profitability more significantly than that of our competitors, providing them with a competitive advantage in pricing their products and services or withstanding a reduction in the contract trading volume of equity options. Price competition has impacted, and may continue to impact, our business. The securities trading industry is characterized by price competition. At present, we compete with five other securities exchanges based in the United States that also list equity options. We may face additional price competition in the future from foreign exchanges, as well as other U.S.-based securities exchanges that do not presently list equity options. In recent years, the pricing model for trading equity options has changed in response to competitive market conditions. Some of our competitors have recently lowered their transaction costs and accordingly reduced the prices they charge. Reduced prices may result in lower operating margins or losses for us, which may adversely impact our business. As long as other exchanges have exclusive licenses on certain index options, which have high margins commensurate with their exclusivity, those exchanges may be able to lower their transaction fees and prices for other products, such as the equity options we trade. Price competition is intensified through payment for order flow arrangements. Payment for order flow is a practice whereby a market maker on an options exchange offers an order entry firm cash or other economic incentives to route its customer orders to that market maker’s exchange through an exchange administered program. As long as payment for order flow arrangements remain the industry standard, we face the competitive risk that other exchanges will erode our contract trading volume by paying more through their payment for order flow programs than our members are willing or able to pay. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. For a discussion of our payment for order flow program and payment for order flow programs generally, see “Business—Regulation—Potential Regulatory Developments—Payment for Order Flow.” The SEC may issue rules prohibiting internalization of order flow and preferencing. The SEC issued a concept release in February 2004 seeking comment from market participants on various trading practices that are common in today’s options markets. Among other things, the SEC has solicited the views of market participants on internalization of order flow. Internalization of order flow refers to the concept of a broker-dealer trading against its own customers’ order flow. Our rules, like those of other options exchanges, permit a broker-dealer to trade with its own customers’ orders but only after an auction in which other members of that exchange have an opportunity to participate in the trade at the proposed price or an improved price. In addition, until recently, the SEC limited internalization to large orders (i.e., 50 or more contracts). The SEC approved for BOX the internalization of orders of any size, as long as the member guarantees that the order being internalized receives a price at least a penny better than the NBBO. In addition, we and other exchanges have introduced “preferencing.” Preferencing allows order entry firms to direct order flow to certain market makers. Preferencing provides an enhanced allocation to those preferenced market makers in order to reward them for attracting order flow to the exchange. Preferencing may also increase the opportunity for some order flow providers to internalize their order flow as well as encourage payment for order flow arrangements on our exchange or on other options exchanges. Internalization has been criticized as adversely affecting quote competition and creating a conflict between an exchange’s desire to profit and its obligation to ensure that its members fulfill their best execution duties. As a result, in February 2004, the SEC sought comment with respect to what action, if any, it should take with respect to internalization of order flow. While we believe that most concerns regarding internalization for large orders are lessened by the fact that the transaction occurs on an exchange after exposure to an auction environment, we cannot predict what action the SEC may take with respect to internalization or whether any such SEC action might have an effect on the options exchange business, including our business. 44 Table of Contents Market fluctuations, industry dynamics and economic and political factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer. The global financial services industry is, by its nature, risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors that are beyond the control of its participants, including us. Any one of these factors may cause a substantial decline in the United States and global financial services markets, resulting in reduced trading volume. These events could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. For these reasons our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Each of the risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section, and the following factors, may affect our operating results: • economic, political and market conditions in the United States and elsewhere in the world; • broad trends in industry and finance; • concerns about terrorism and war; • concerns over inflation and wavering institutional or retail confidence levels; • the availability of cash for investment by the clients of Class B-3 members; • consolidation in our member base and within our industry; • changes in government monetary policy and foreign currency exchange rates; and • legislative and regulatory changes. The financial services industry and particularly the securities transactions business are dynamic and uncertain environments, and we expect exchange consolidation, member consolidation and competition to persist in the future. This environment has led to business failures and has encouraged the introduction of alternative trading venues with varying market structures and new business plans. In addition, the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which may change dramatically in ways that affect industry market structure. If we are unable to adjust to the dynamism that characterizes our industry—including structural changes within our markets, technological and financial innovation and other competitive factors—our business will suffer and competitors will take advantage of opportunities to our detriment. Seasonal fluctuations in our quarterly operating results may negatively affect our business. Our business may experience seasonal fluctuations. As a result, our operating results for a particular portion of any year may not be indicative of the results that we expect for the full year. Our operating results may also fluctuate quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors beyond our control, including the factors discussed above under “—Market fluctuations, industry dynamics and economic and political factors beyond our control could reduce demand for our services and harm our business, and our profitability could suffer. We must keep up with emerging technological changes in order to compete effectively in our rapidly evolving industry. The financial services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, changes in use and members’ requirements and preferences, frequent product and service introductions embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing proprietary trading platform, technology and systems obsolete. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and features of our proprietary trading platform, software, systems and technologies. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • develop and license leading technologies useful in our business; • enhance our existing trading platform and services; 45 Table of Contents • develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective members; • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis; and • continue to attract and retain highly skilled technology staff to maintain and develop our existing technology and to adapt to and manage emerging technologies. The development of proprietary electronic trading technology entails significant technical, financial and business risks. Further, the adoption of new Internet, networking, telecommunications technologies or market practices may require us to devote substantial resources to modify and adapt our services. In such cases, we cannot assure you that we would succeed in making such improvements to our technology infrastructure in a timely manner or at all. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary trading platform, technologies and systems to the requirements of our members or emerging industry standards. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to respond in a timely manner to changing market conditions or the requirements of our members. If we are unable to anticipate and respond to the demand for new services, products and technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis and to adapt to technological advancements and changing standards, we may be unable to compete effectively, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and we face restrictions with respect to the way we conduct certain of our operations. We operate in a highly regulated industry. Our business is subject to increasingly extensive governmental and other regulation and may be subjected to increasing regulatory scrutiny. The SEC has broad powers to audit, investigate and enforce compliance and punish noncompliance with its rules and regulations and industry standards of practice. We cannot assure you that we or our directors, officers and employees will be able to fully comply with these rules and regulations and will not be subject to claims or actions by the SEC. The SEC extensively regulates the U.S. securities industry, including our operations. We are required to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC. In addition, as we seek to expand our product base, we could become subject to additional regulators. As a matter of public policy, these regulatory bodies are responsible for safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors in those markets. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, rules or regulations, we may be subject to censure, fines, cease-and-desist orders, suspension of business, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as a national securities exchange. We are an SRO. Pursuant to the Exchange Act, an SRO is responsible for regulating its members through the adoption and enforcement of rules governing the business conduct of its members. As an SRO, we have our own rules regarding listing, membership and trading that are distinct and separate from those rules applicable generally to broker-dealers as administered by the SEC, NASD, and other SROs. As an SRO, we must submit proposed changes of our rules to the SEC. The SEC will typically publish the proposal for public comment, following which the SEC may approve or disapprove the proposal as it deems appropriate. We can give no assurances that the SEC will approve any changes to our rules that we may propose. Also, we may incur significant financial costs and expend considerable human resources in connection with our surveillance and enforcement obligations, particularly to the extent we bear responsibility for prosecuting cases or proceeding against our members. Due to our status as an SRO, we have a statutory duty to allocate necessary resources to these functions, and this may limit our ability to dedicate funds and human resources in other areas. In recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets, have been subject to significant regulatory changes. Regulatory changes are generally made in response to innovations in markets and 46 Table of Contents technology or to address regulators’ specific concerns, such as ensuring best execution for investors. Moreover, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing political and public scrutiny in the past few years in response to a number of developments and inquiries. In a concept release issued in February 2004, the SEC expressed specific concern and solicited comment from market participants about three options market practices: payment for order flow, specialist guarantees and internalization of orders. In July 2005, OCIE sent a letter to brokerage firms requesting information on how customer orders are routed to exchanges and whether their firms receive payment for order flow. In December 2005, OCIE sent us a notice requesting payment and collection information as part of our program. We believe these notices are part of the SEC’s examination of order-routing and trade-execution practices in the options industry. The SEC, while not banning the practice, has stated that receiving payments for orders may create a conflict of interest between a broker’s duty to obtain best execution for their customers’ orders and a broker’s own interest in increasing profits. It is unclear at present whether the SEC will take any action in the future to restrict or prohibit any of these practices or other practices that are common within the options exchange industry. However, the issuance of the concept release and recent investigations by the SEC into the activities of floor brokers and other matters suggest, in our opinion, that the SEC is taking an increased interest in market oversight issues generally. In addition, in April 2005, the SEC adopted Regulation NMS which addressed order protection, intermarket access, sub-penny pricing, and market data and revenue sharing. While Regulation NMS specifically addressed the equities marketplace, and does not apply to the options exchanges, including ISE, it serves as a further example of SEC interest in market oversight issues which may eventually extend to the options industry. Additionally, in October 2005, a SEC Commissioner expressed a personal view that the SEC should implement execution quality statistics for the options markets similar to those the SEC has required for the equity markets. Any of these factors or events, among others, may result in future regulatory or other changes, which could cause us to change the way we conduct our business and adversely affect our business. See “Business—Regulation.” Our exchange is both an SRO and a for-profit business, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. Pursuant to the Exchange Act, we are obligated, as an SRO, to regulate and monitor our members to ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our exchange. The SEC staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of “for-profit” exchanges performing the regulatory functions of SROs and has specifically required the segregation of revenues received from regulatory fees and penalties from other revenues and prohibited payment of dividends from regulatory fines, fees or penalties that exchanges collect from SRO members. In addition to the risk of overly aggressive regulation, potential conflicts of interest could also result in overly lenient regulation. In either case, any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate our members or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt SEC scrutiny and adversely affect our business. We may be required to change the manner in which we conduct business or govern ourselves or incur increased costs as a result of recently proposed changes in rules and regulations relating to SROs. In November 2004, the SEC proposed corporate governance, transparency, oversight and ownership rules for SROs such as us, and issued a concept release examining the efficacy of self-regulation by SROs. The rule proposals and concept release were subject to a public comment period, which ended in March 2005. We do not know whether the proposals will be adopted and if adopted, adopted as proposed, or modified in response to public comment. These recently proposed changes in the rules and regulations affecting SROs by the SEC could result in changes in the manner in which we conduct business or govern ourselves. The new rules also could, among other things, make it more difficult or more costly for us to conduct our existing business or enter into new businesses. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to the proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the full extent to which these proposals, if adopted as proposed, may affect us or our operations or the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We also cannot predict whether or to what extent the concept release might have an effect on us or our operations. See “Business—Regulation—Potential Regulatory Developments.” 47 Table of Contents We may experience certain competitive disadvantages if we do not receive SEC approval for new business initiatives in a timely manner. From time to time, we seek to engage in new business activities, some of which may require changes to our governing rules. Any such changes to our governing rules will require the prior approval of the SEC. See “Business—Regulation” for additional discussion regarding changes to our governing rules. To the extent we believe that a new business initiative is necessary to compete with other exchanges, but are unable to obtain SEC approval for related rule changes in a timely manner, we may be subject to certain competitive disadvantages. See “Business—Competition.” Any failure by us to satisfy our obligations as an SRO could subject us to significant legal and regulatory costs. Generally, the SEC has broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders, prohibit us from engaging in some of our businesses or suspend or revoke our designation as a registered securities exchange or the registration of any of our officers or employees who violate applicable laws or regulations. Our ability to comply with all applicable laws and rules is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems and procedures, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance, audit and risk management personnel. We cannot assure you that these systems and procedures are fully effective. We face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extensive examination and surveillance activity. In the case of actual or alleged non-compliance with regulations, we could be subject to investigations and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties or civil lawsuits for damages, which can be substantial. Any such investigation or proceeding, whether successful or unsuccessful, would result in substantial costs and diversions of resources and might also harm our business reputation, any of which could negatively affect our business. As a financial services provider, we are subject to significant litigation risk and potential securities law liability. Many aspects of our business involve substantial liability risks. These risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over terms of a trade, the claim that a system failure or delay caused monetary losses to a member or its customer, that we entered into an unauthorized transaction or that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a transaction. Dissatisfied customers frequently make claims against their service providers regarding quality of trade execution, improperly settled trades, mismanagement or even fraud. While our trading rules limit our liability to our members for some of our market-related activities, we could be exposed to substantial liability under federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC. We could incur significant legal expenses defending claims, even those without merit. In addition, an adverse resolution of any future lawsuit or claim against us could have a material adverse effect on our business. If our risk management methods are not effective, our business, reputation and financial results may be adversely affected. We have methods to identify, monitor and manage our risks; however, these methods may not be fully effective. Some of our risk management methods may depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. If our methods are not fully effective or we are not always successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed, our business, reputation, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, our insurance policies may not provide adequate coverage. Employee misconduct or errors could negatively affect our business. Employee misconduct could subject us to financial losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to prevent and 48 Table of Contents detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Misconduct by our employees could include hiding unauthorized activities from us, improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of customers or improper use of confidential information. Similarly, employee errors in recording or executing transactions for customers can cause us to enter into transactions that customers may disavow and refuse to settle. In addition, we may provide customers with incorrect or incomplete descriptions of how to use our services, which may cause customers to disavow and refuse to settle transactions. These transactions expose us to risk of loss, which can be material, until we detect the errors in questions and unwind or reverse the transaction. As with any unsettled transaction, adverse movements in the prices of securities involved in these transactions before we unwind or reverse them can increase this risk. 