Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Our business may be affected materially by various risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or our other SEC filings, as well as other risks we have not identified, may have a material negative impact on the our financial condition and operating results. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. 20 Like all financial institutions, the Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for probable losses inherent in its loan portfolio. At December 31, 2013, the ratio of the allowance for loan losses to loans was 1.95%. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses and future provisions for loan losses could materially and adversely affect the Bank’s operating results. The Bank’s allowance for loan losses is determined by management after analyzing historical loan losses, current trends in delinquencies and charge-offs, plans for problem loan resolution, changes in the size and composition of the loan portfolio and industry information. Also included in management’s estimates for loan losses are considerations with respect to the impact of economic events, the outcome of which are uncertain. The determination by management of the allowance of loan losses involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to estimate current and future credit risk based on both qualitative and quantitative facts, each of which is subject to significant change. The Bank’s allowance and provision for loan losses increased in 2013 compared to the prior year reflecting, among other factors, the impact of higher charge offs on the Bank’s allowance and provision methodology. The amount of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Bank’s control, and these loan losses may exceed current estimates. Bank regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Bank’s loans and allowance for loan losses. Although we believe that the Bank’s allowance for loan losses is adequate to provide for probable losses and that the methodology used by the Bank to determine the amount of both the allowance and provision is effective, we cannot assure you that we will not need to increase the Bank’s allowance for loan losses, change our methodology for determining our allowance and provision for loan losses or that our regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could materially reduce our earnings and profitability and could result in our sustaining losses. The Bank may suffer losses in its loan portfolio despite its underwriting practices. The Bank seeks to mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. These practices vary depending on the facts and circumstances of each loan, but generally include analysis of a borrower’s prior credit history, financial statements, tax returns and cash flow projections, valuation of certain types of collateral based on reports of independent appraisers and verification of liquid assets. Although the Bank believes that its underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans it makes, the Bank may incur losses on loans that meet its underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in the Bank’s allowance for loan losses. If the level of non-performing assets increases, interest income will be reduced. If we experience loan defaults in excess of amounts that we have included in our allowance for loan losses, we will have to increase the provision for loan losses which will reduce our income and might cause us to incur losses. Weak current conditions in the U.S. economy and the credit markets have had, and we expect they will continue to have, significant adverse effects on our assets and operating results. For a multi-year period and continuing through the date of this report, the financial system in the United States, including credit markets and markets for real estate and real-estate related assets, have been subject to considerable stress. Although there have been some recent improvements, many of the stresses have not yet been fully resolved. These stresses have resulted in substantial declines in the availability of credit, the values of real estate and real estate–related assets, the availability of ready markets for those assets and impairment of the ability of many borrowers to repay their obligations. As a result of these conditions, during the past four years we materially increased our provision for loan losses, and experienced an increase in the amount of loans charged off and non-performing assets. A continuation of current weak economic conditions could further harm our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. The Bancorp, Inc.,and its subsidiary The Bancorp Bank, are subject to extensive federal,and state regulation and supervision. Our subsidiary in the European Union, TPL, is also subject to the laws of Gibraltar and all other European Union and European Economic Areas countries in which it operates. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect customers, depositors’ funds, the federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. These regulations affect the Bank’s lending practices, capital structure and requirements, investment activities, dividend policy, product offerings, expansionary strategies and growth, among other things. The legal and regulatory landscape is frequently changing as Congress and the regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over our operations adopt or amend laws, or change interpretation of existing statutes, regulations or policies. These changes could affect the Company, the Bank and TPL in substantial and unpredictable ways. Additionally, while we have policies and procedrues designed to prevent violations of the extensive federal and state regulations that we are subject to, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur, and failure to comply with these statutes, regulations or policies could result in sanctions against the Company or the Bank by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, reputational damage, and a downgrade in 21 the Bank’s CAMELS ratings, any of which alone or in combination could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations We may have difficulty managing our growth which may divert resources and limit our ability to expand our operations successfully. We expect to continue to experience significant growth in the amount of our assets, the level of our deposits and the scale of our operations. Our future profitability will depend in part on our continued ability to grow; however, we may not be able to sustain our historical growth rate or be able to grow. Our future success will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and manage a growing number of customer relationships. We may not implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Consequently, our continued growth may place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Any such strain could increase our costs, reduce or eliminate our profitability and reduce the price at which our common shares trade. New lines of business, and new products and services may result in exposure to new risks. The Bank has introduced, and in the future may introduce, new products and services to differing markets either alone or in conjunction with third parties. New lines of business, products or services could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls or the controls of third parties and could reduce our revenues and potentially generate losses. There are material inherent risks and uncertainties associated with offering new products and services, especially when new markets are not fully-developed or when the laws and regulations regarding a new product are not mature. New products and services, or entrance into new markets, may require substantial time, resources and capital, and profitability targets may not be achieved. Factors outside of our control, such as developing laws and regulations, competitive product offerings and changes in commercial and consumer demand for products or services may also materially impact the successful launch and implementation of new products or services. Failure to manage these risks, or failure of any product or service offerings to be successful and profitable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could reduce our income, cash flows and asset values. Our income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates we earn on interest earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates we pay on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. The value of our assets, and particularly loans with fixed or capped rates of interest, may also vary with interest rate changes. We discuss the effects of interest rate changes on the market value of our portfolio and net interest income in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Asset and Liability Management.” Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors which are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, will influence not only the interest we receive on our loans and investment securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits, but also our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and our costs in doing so. If the rate of interest we pay on our deposits and other borrowings increases more than the rate of interest we earn on our loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore our earnings, could decline or we could sustain losses. Our earnings could also decline or we could sustain losses if the rates on our loans and other investments fall more quickly than those on our deposits and other borrowings. While the Bank is generally asset sensitive, which implies that significant increases in market rates would generally increase margins, while decreases in interest rates would generally decrease margins, we cannot assure you that increases or decreases in margins will follow such a pattern in the future. We are subject to lending risks. There are risks inherent in making all loans. These risks include interest rate changes over the time period in which loans may be repaid and changes in the national economy or the economy of our regional market that impact the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans or the value of the collateral securing those loans. Our loan portfolio contains a high percentage of commercial non-real estate, construction and commercial mortgage loans in relation to our total loans and total assets. At December 31, 2013, commercial non-real estate loans were 23% of total loans, construction loans were 13% of total loans and commercial mortgage loans were 32% of total loans. Accordingly, at December 31, 2013, our loan portfolio was concentrated in commercial non-real estate, construction and commercial mortgage loans which comprised $1.33 billion, or 68.4%, of our total loan portfolio. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans. These types of loans are also typically 22 larger than residential real estate loans and consumer loans. Because our loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial, construction and commercial mortgage loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans would cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. Current economic conditions have caused increases in our delinquent and defaulted loans. We cannot assure you that we will not experience further increases in delinquencies and defaults or that any such increases will not be material. On a consolidated basis, an increase in non-performing loans could result in an increase in our provision for loan losses or in loan charge-offs and consequent reductions in our earnings. Our lending operations are concentrated in the Philadelphia-Wilmington metropolitan area. Our commercial loans are largely made to borrowers based in the Philadelphia-Wilmington metropolitan area. As a result, our consolidated financial performance depends significantly upon economic conditions in this area. Local economic conditions that are worse than economic conditions in the United States generally could cause us to experience an increase in loan delinquencies, a reduction in deposits, an increase in the number of borrowers who default on their loans and a reduction in the value of the collateral securing their loans, greater than similarly situated institutions in other regions. There is a significant concentration in prepaid card fee income which is subject to various risks. A significant portion of our revenues are realized from prepaid card and other prepaid products and services offered by our Prepaid Solutions Group. Actions by government agencies relating to service charges, or increased regulatory compliance costs, could result in reductions in income which may not be offset by reductions in expense. Regulatory and legal requirements applicable to the prepaid card industry are unique and frequently changing. Achieving and maintaining compliance with frequently changing legal and regulatory requirements requires a significant investment in qualified personnel, hardware, software and other technology platforms, external legal counsel and consultants and other infrastructure components both in the United States and the European Union. These investments may not ensure compliance or otherwise mitigate risks involved in this business. Our failure to satisfy regulatory mandates applicable to prepaid financial products could result in actions against us by our regulators, legal proceedings being instituted against us by consumers, or other losses, each of which could have a material adverse effect on financial condition and operating results. Other risks related to prepaid cards include competition for prepaid and other payment mediums, possible changes in the rules of networks, such as Visa and Mastercard and others, in which the Bank operates and state regulations related to prepaid cards including escheatment. The potential for fraud in the card payment industry is significant. Issuers of prepaid cards and other companies have suffered significant losses in recent years with respect to the theft of cardholder data that has been illegally exploited for personal gain. The theft of such information is regularly reported and affects individuals and businesses. Losses from various types of fraud have been substantial for certain card industry participants. The Bank in many cases has indemnification agreements with third parties; however, such indemnifications may not fully cover losses. Although fraud has not had a material impact on the profitability of the Bank, it is possible that such activity could impact this division at some time in the future. Risk management processes and strategies must be effective, and concentration of risk increases the potential for losses. Our risk management processes and strategies must be effective, otherwise losses may result. We manage asset quality, liquidity, market sensitivity, operational, regulatory, third-party vendor and partner relationship risks, and other risks through various processes and strategies throughout the organization. If our risk management judgments and strategies are not effective, or unanticipated risks arise, our income could be reduced or we could sustain losses. We depend in part upon wholesale and brokered deposits to satisfy funding needs. Historically, we have relied in part on funds provided by wholesale and brokered deposits to support the growth of our loan portfolio. Wholesale and brokered deposits are highly sensitive to changes in interest rates paid on such deposits and, accordingly, can be a volatile source of funding. Although such funding sources amounted to only 0.20% of our total deposits at December 31, 2013 and 0.34% at December 31, 2012, they represented 2.1% of total deposits at December 31, 2011 and higher percentages in previous periods. Use of wholesale and brokered deposits involves the risk that growth supported by such deposits would be halted, or the 23 Bank’s total assets could contract if the rates offered by the Bank were less than offered by other institutions seeking such deposits, or if the depositors were to perceive a decline in the Bank’s safety and soundness, or both. In addition, if we were unable to match the maturities of the interest rates we pay for wholesale and brokered funds to the maturities of the loans we make using those funds, increases in the interest rates we pay for such funds could decrease our consolidated net interest income. Moreover, if the Bank ceases to be categorized as “well capitalized” under banking regulations, it will be prohibited from accepting, renewing or rolling over brokered deposits without from the consent of the FDIC. We operate in a highly competitive market and geographic area. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors, including commercial banks and their holding companies, savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, credit unions, leasing companies, consumer finance companies, factoring companies, insurance companies and money market mutual funds and card issuers. Our competitors vary significantly based on our products and services, with our competition for loans and community banking products being mostly regional and our competition for healthcare payment solutions, prepaid payment solutions, fleet leasing and affinity banking products and services being primarily national. Competition for commercial loan products and other community banking products and services in the Philadelphia-Wilmington metropolitan area, which is our principal service area for commercial lending and community banking, is very strong. This geographic area includes offices of many of the largest financial institutions in the nation. Most of those competing institutions have much greater financial and marketing resources than we have and far greater name recognition. Due to their size, many of our competitors can achieve economies of scale and, as a result, may offer a broader range of lending products and services as well as better pricing structures for those products and services. Moreover, because we are smaller and less well-established, we may have to pay higher rates on our deposits or offer more free or reduced-cost services in order to attract and retain customers. We face national and even global competition with respect to our other products and services, including payment acceptance products and services, healthcare payment solutions, private label banking, fleet leasing, government guaranteed lending and prepaid payment solutions. Our commercial partners and banking customers for these products and services are located throughout the United States and, with respect to prepaid and electronic money payment solutions, the United States and the European Union, and the competition is strong in each category. We encounter competition from some of the largest financial institutions in the world as well as smaller specialized regional banks and financial service companies. Increased competition with any of these product or service offerings could result in the reduced pricing and resultant profit margins, fragmented market share and a failure to enjoy economies of scale, loss of customer and depositor base, and other risks that individually, or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Some of the financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as federally-insured and regulated financial institutions such as ours. As a result, those competitors may be able to access funding and provide various services more easily or at less cost than we can. We derive a significant percentage of our deposits, total assets and income from deposit accounts we generate through affinity groups. We derive a significant percentage of our deposits, total assets and income from deposit accounts we generate through affinity groups. Deposits related to our top twenty affinity groups totaled $2.19 billion at December 31, 2013. We provide oversight over our affinity groups which must meet all internal and regulatory requirements. We may exit relationships where such requirements are not met or be required by our regulators to exit such relationships. If an affinity group relationship were to be terminated, it could materially reduce our deposits, assets and income. We cannot assure you that we could replace such relationship. If we cannot replace such relationship, we may be required to seek higher rate funding sources as compared to the exiting affinity group and interest expense might increase. We may also be required to sell securities or other assets to meet funding needs which would reduce revenues or potentially generate losses. Our affinity group marketing strategy has been adopted by other institutions with which we compete. Several online banking operations as well as the online banking programs of conventional banks have instituted affinity group marketing strategies similar to ours. As a consequence, we have encountered competition in this area and anticipate that we will 24 continue to do so in the future. This competition may increase our costs, reduce our revenues or revenue growth or, because we are a relatively small banking operation without the name recognition of other, more established banking operations, make it difficult for us to compete effectively in obtaining affinity group relationships. Our lending limit may adversely affect our competitiveness. Our regulatory lending limit as of December 31, 2013 to any one customer or related group of customers was $48.2 million for unsecured loans and $80.3 million for secured loans. Our lending limit is substantially smaller than that of many financial institutions with which we compete. While we believe that our lending limit is sufficient for our targeted market of small to mid-size businesses, individuals and affinity group members, it may affect our ability to attract or maintain customers or to compete with other financial institutions. Moreover, to the extent that we incur losses and do not obtain additional capital, our lending limit, which depends upon the amount of our capital, will decrease. Environmental liability associated with lending activities could result in losses. In the course of our business, we may foreclose on and take title to properties securing our loans. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental entities or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. In addition, if we arrange for the disposal of hazardous or toxic substances at another site, we may be liable for the costs of cleaning up and removing those substances from the site, even if we neither own nor operate the disposal site. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expenses and may materially limit use of properties we acquired through foreclosure, reduce their value or limit our ability to sell them in the event of a default on the loans they secure. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. As a financial institution whose principal medium for delivery of banking services is the Internet, we are subject to risks particular to that medium and other technological risks and costs . We utilize the Internet and other automated electronic processing in our banking services without physical locations, as distinguished from the Internet banking service of an established conventional bank. Independent Internet banks often have found it difficult to achieve profitability and revenue growth. Several factors contribute to the unique problems that Internet banks face. These include concerns for the security of personal information, the absence of personal relationships between bankers and customers, the absence of loyalty to a conventional hometown bank, the customer’s difficulty in understanding and assessing the substance and financial strength of an Internet bank, a lack of confidence in the likelihood of success and permanence of Internet banks and many individuals’ unwillingness to trust their personal assets to a relatively new technological medium such as the Internet. As a result, many potential customers may be unwilling to establish a relationship with us. Many conventional financial institutions offer the option of Internet banking and financial services to their existing and prospective customers. The public may perceive conventional financial institutions as being safer, more responsive, more comfortable to deal with and more accountable as providers of their banking and financial services, including their Internet banking services. We may not be able to offer Internet banking and financial services and personal relationship characteristics that have sufficient advantages over the Internet banking and financial services and other characteristics of established conventional financial institutions to enable us to compete successfully. Moreover, both the Internet and the financial services industry are undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving the ability to serve customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to implement effectively new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Such products may also prove costly to develop or acquire. Our operations may be interrupted if our network or computer systems, or those of our providers, fail. 25 Because we deliver our products and services over the Internet and outsource several critical functions to third parties, our operations depend on our ability, as well as that of our service providers, to protect computer systems and network infrastructure against interruptions in service due to damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, physical break-ins, computer hacking or similar catastrophic events. Our operations also depend upon our ability to replace a third-party provider if it experiences difficulties that interrupt our operations or if an operationally essential third-party service terminates. Service interruptions to customers may adversely affect our ability to obtain or retain customers and could result in regulatory sanctions. Moreover, if a customer were unable to access his or her account or complete a financial transaction due to a service interruption, we could be subject to a claim by the customer for his or her loss. While our accounts and other agreements contain disclaimers of liability for these kinds of losses, we cannot predict the outcome of litigation if a customer were to make a claim against us. A failure of cyber security may result in a loss of customers and our being liable for damages for such failure. A significant barrier to online and other financial transactions is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks and other mediums. The systems we use rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide secure transmission of confidential information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms used to protect customer transaction data. If we, or another provider of financial services through the Internet, were to suffer damage from a security breach, public acceptance and use of the Internet as a medium for financial transactions could suffer. Any security breach could deter potential customers or cause existing customers to leave, thereby impairing our ability to grow and maintain profitability and, possibly, our ability to continue delivering our products and services through the Internet. We could also be liable for any customer damages arising from such a breach. Other cyber threats involving theft of confidential information could also result in liabilty. Although we, with the help of third-party service providers, intend to continue to implement security technology and establish operational procedures to prevent security breaches, these measures may not be successful. We outsource many essential services to third-party providers who may terminate their agreements with us, resulting in interruptions to our banking operations. We obtain essential technological and customer services support for the systems we use from third-party providers. We outsource our check processing, check imaging, transaction processing, electronic bill payment, statement rendering, internal audit and other services to third- party vendors. For a description of these services, you should read Item 1, “Business—Other Operations—Third-Party Service Providers.” Our agreements with each service provider are generally cancelable without cause by either party upon specified notice periods. If one of our third-party service providers terminates its agreement with us and we are unable to replace it with another service provider, our operations may be interrupted. Even a temporary disruption in services could result in our losing customers, incurring liability for any damages our customers may sustain, or losing revenues. Moreover, there can be no assurance that a replacement service provider will provide its services at the same or a lower cost than the service provider it replaces. We may be affected by government regulation including those mandating capital levels . We are subject to extensive federal and state banking regulation and supervision, which has increased in the past several years as a result of stresses the financial system has undergone for an extended period of years. The regulations are intended primarily to protect our depositors’ funds, the federal deposit insurance funds and the safety and soundness of the Bank, not our shareholders. Regulatory requirements affect lending practices, product offerings, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. A failure by either the Bank or us to meet regulatory capital requirements will result in the imposition of limitations on our operations and could, if capital levels drop significantly, result in our being required to cease operations. Regulatory capital requirements must also be satisfied such that mandated capital ratios are maintained as the Bank grows, or growth may be required to be curtailed. Moreover, a failure by either the Bank or us to comply with regulatory requirements regarding lending practices, investment practices, customer relationships, anti-money laundering detection and prevention, and other operational practices (see "Business--Regulation Under Banking Law") could result in regulatory sanctions and possibly third-party liabilities. Changes in governing law, regulations or regulatory practices could impose additional costs on us or impair our ability to obtain deposits or make loans and, as a consequence, our consolidated revenues and profitability. As a Delaware-chartered bank whose depositors and financial services customers are located in several states, the Bank may be subject to additional licensure requirements or other regulation of its activities by state regulatory authorities and laws outside of Delaware. If the Bank’s compliance with licensure requirements or other regulation becomes overly burdensome, we may seek to 26 convert its state charter to a federal charter in order to gain the benefits of federal preemption of some of those laws and regulations. Conversion of the Bank to a federal charter will require the prior approval of the relevant federal bank regulatory authorities, which we may not be able to obtain. Moreover, even if we obtain approval, there could be a significant period of time between our application and receipt of the approval, and/or any approval we do obtain may be subject to burdensome conditions or restrictions. Implemented, proposed and future regulatory and legislative financial reforms may result in new laws and regulations that we expect will increase our compliance burdens and operating costs. The passage of new laws and the adoption of new rules and regulations cannot be fully or accurately predicted. Any such proposed laws and regulations may limit our operations, require higher levels of capital and liquidity, create additional compliance burdens, or otherwise impact our operations. Most recently, passage of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010, and the rules and regulations emanating therefrom, have significantly changed, and will continue to, change,the bank regulatory structure, and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. While a significant number of regulations have already been promulgated to implement the Dodd-Frank Act, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for lengthy periods, which could have a material adverse effect on the financial services industry, generally and our company in particular. We expect that the Dodd-Frank Act’s “Durbin Amendment,” which applies to all banks, regardless of asset size, will continue to affect us. The Durbin Amendment required the Federal Reserve to adopt a rule establishing debit card interchange fee standards and limits and prohibiting network exclusivity and routing requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act exempts from the debit card interchange fee standards any issuing bank that, together with its affiliates, have assets of less than $10 billion. Because of our asset size, we are exempt from the debit card interchange fee standards and will continue to be exempt unless the exemption is amended or we, together with our affiliate, surpass $10 billion in assets. On June 29, 2011,the Federal Reserve implemented final routing regulatory requirements to prohibit network exclusivity arrangements on debit card transactions and ensure merchants will have choices in debit card routing, which apply to us. The regulations require issuers to make at least two unaffiliated networks available to the merchant, without regard to the method of authentication (PIN or signature), for both debit cards and prepaid cards. As currently applied, a card issuer can guarantee compliance with the network exclusivity regulations by enabling the debit card to process transactions through one signature network and one unaffiliated PIN network. Cards usable only with PINs must be enabled with two unaffiliated PIN networks. Recent litigation has called into question whether the Federal Reserve’s network exclusivity rules will withstand legal challenges. Specifically, on July 31, 2013, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia granted summary judgment in favor of the plaintiffs, a group of merchant trade associations and individual merchants challenging certain aspects of the interchange fee standards and the network exclusivity and routing restrictions, in the case of NACS et. al. v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The court vacated the interchange fee cap and the network exclusivity aspects of the rule, but stayed the implementation of the holding pending the Federal Reserve’s appeal of the ruling to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. If the Court’s opinion is upheld on appeal, the Federal Reserve would need to issue new regulations and issuer’s, including the Bank, may be required to provide two unaffiliated signature networks and two unaffiliated PIN networks on each card, for a total of four networks on each card, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on regional banks; however, we expect that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and obligations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A further downgrade of the U.S. government credit rating could negatively impact our investment portfolio and other operations. A significant amount of our investment portfolio is rated by outside ratings agencies as explicitly or implicitly backed by the United States government. In 2011, the credit rating of the United States government was lowered, and it is possible it may be downgraded further, based upon rating agencies’ evaluations of the effect of increasing levels of government debt and related 27 Congressional actions. A lowering of the United States government credit ratings may reduce the market value or liquidity of our securities. Our success will depend on our ability to retain Betsy Z. Cohen, our Chief Executive Officer, and our senior management. We believe that our future success will depend upon the expertise of, and customer relationships established by, Betsy Z. Cohen, our Chief Executive Officer, and other members of senior management. If Mrs. Cohen were to become unavailable for any reason, or if we are unable to retain or attract highly qualified and experienced personnel, our ability to obtain deposits or loan customers may be materially adversely affected. Potential acquisitions may disrupt our business and dilute stockholder value. Acquiring other banks or businesses involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: · potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target entity; · exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target entity; · difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target entity; · potential disruption to our business; · potential diversion of our management’s time and attention; · the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target entity; · difficulty in estimating the value of the target entity; · potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target entity; and · difficulty navigating and integrating legal, operating cultural differences between the United States and the countries of the target entity’s operations. From time to time we evaluate merger and acquisition opportunities and conduct due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions and financial services companies. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of our tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to potential liability and business risk from actions by our regulators related to supervision of third parties. Oversight management by us of third parties by which we acquire deposit accounts and offer products and services, may be required to be expanded by our auditors or regulators. Although we have added significant compliance staff and have used outside consultants, our internal and external compliance examiners must be satisfied with the results of such augmentation and enhancement. We cannot assure you that we will satisfy all related requirements. Not achieving a compliance management system which is deemed adequate could result in sanctions against the Bank. Our ongoing review and analysis of our compliance management system and implementation of any changes resulting from that review and analysis will likely result in increased noninterest expense. Any future FDIC insurance premium increases will adversely affect our earnings. Any further assessments or special assessments that the FDIC levies will be recorded as an expense during the appropriate period and will decrease our earnings. On February 9, 2011, the FDIC adopted a final rule which redefines the deposit insurance assessment base as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The final rule sets the deposit insurance assessment base as average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. It also sets a new assessment rate schedule which reflects assessment rate adjustments based upon regulatory examination classification with increased rates for brokered deposits. The final rule became effective on April 1, 2011. If the Bank’s rating is changed, insurance premiums will be increased which will adversely affect our earnings. 28 Risks related to ownership of our common stock. The trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies, which may reduce the price at which our common stock would otherwise trade. Although our common stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, the trading volume is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. An investment in our common stock is not an insured deposit. Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Our ability to issue additional shares of our common stock, or the issuance of such additional shares, may reduce the price at which our common stock trades. We cannot predict whether future issuances of shares of our common stock or the availability of shares for resale in the open market will decrease the market price per share of our common stock. We are not restricted from issuing additional shares of common stock, including any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for, or that represent the right to receive shares of common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such sales might occur could materially adversely affect the market price of the shares of our common stock. The exercise of any options granted to directors, executive officers and other employees under our stock compensation plans, the vesting of restricted stock grants, the issuance of shares of common stock in acquisitions and other issuances of our common stock also could have an adverse effect on the market price of the shares of our common stock. The existence of options, or shares of our common stock reserved for issuance as restricted shares of our common stock may materially adversely affect the terms upon which we may be able to obtain additional capital in the future through the sale of equity securities. Future offerings of debt, which would be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, and/or preferred equity securities which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may reduce the market price at which our common stock trades. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if the Bank’s capital ratios fall below the required minimums, we could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including medium-term notes senior or subordinated notes or preferred stock. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of our available assets prior to the holders of our common stock. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which, to the extent we require such dividends in the future, may affect our ability to pay our obligations and pay dividends. We are a separate legal entity from the Bank and our other subsidiaries, and we do not have significant operations of our own. We have historically depended on the Bank’s cash and liquidity as well as dividends to pay our operating expenses. Various federal and state statutory provisions limit the amount of dividends that subsidiary banks can pay to their holding companies without regulatory approval. The Bank is also subject to limitations under state law regarding the payment of dividends, including the requirement that dividends may be paid only out of net profits. In addition to these explicit limitations, it is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, federal and state regulatory agencies could take the position that payment of dividends by the Bank would constitute an unsafe or unsound banking practice. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends sufficient to satisfy our obligations or is otherwise unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our obligations as they become due or to pay dividends on our common stock or preferred stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the 29 Bank could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Even if the Bank has the capacity to pay dividends, which it currently does, it is not obligated to pay the dividends. Its Board of Directors may determine, as it did in 2013, 2012 and 2011, to retain some or all of its earnings to support or increase its capital base. Anti-takeover provisions of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to receive a change in control premium. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest more difficult, even if such events were perceived by many of our stockholders as beneficial to their interests. These provisions include in particular our ability to issue shares of our common stock and preferred stock with such provisions as our board of directors may approve without further shareholder approval. In addition, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, in general, prevents an interested stockholder, defined generally as a person owning 15% or more of a corporation’s outstanding voting stock, from engaging in a business combination with our company for three years following the date that person became an interested stockholder unless certain specified conditions are satisfied. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 