D. Risk Factors The following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Any of these risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels once they are delivered. Given current market conditions, we will seek to deploy our vessels on time and bareboat charters in a manner that will help us achieve a steady flow of earnings. Although period charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue as well as a portion of the revenues generated by the charterer's deployment of the vessels in the spot market or otherwise, vessels committed to period charters may not be available for spot voyages during an upturn in the tanker industry cycle, as the case may be, when spot voyages might be more profitable. If we cannot employ our vessels on profitable time charters or employ them in the spot market for a profit, our results of operations and operating cash flow may suffer if rates achieved are not sufficient to cover respective vessel operating and financial expenses. The international tanker industry has historically been both cyclical and volatile and this may lead to reductions and volatility in our charter rates, our vessel values and our results of operations. The international tanker industry in which we operate is cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates, vessel values and industry profitability. For tanker vessels, the degree of charter rate volatility has varied widely. If we enter into a charter when charter rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. In addition, a decline in charter hire rates will likely cause the value of our vessels to decline. Changes in spot rates and time charters can affect the revenues we will receive from operations, and can also affect the value of our vessels, even if they are employed under long-term time charters. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of their time or bareboat charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the tanker market. 4 Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in the supply and demand for vessels. Factors affecting the supply and demand for our vessels are outside of our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in tanker industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for tanker vessel capacity include: · supply and demand for refined petroleum products and crude oil; · changes in crude oil production and refining capacity resulting in shifts in trade flows for crude oil and petroleum products; · the location of regional and global crude oil refining facilities that affect the distance oil is to be moved by sea; · global and regional economic and political conditions, including developments in international trade, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production, and armed conflicts, terrorist activities and strikes; · increases in the production of oil in areas linked by pipelines to consuming areas, the extension of existing, or the development of new pipeline systems in markets we may serve, or the conversion of existing non-oil pipelines to oil pipelines in those markets; · environmental and other legal and regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; · weather, natural disasters and other acts of God; · competition from alternative sources of energy, other shipping companies and other modes of transportation; and · international sanctions, embargoes, import and export restrictions, nationalizations, piracy and wars. The factors that influence the supply of tanker capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · current and expected purchase orders for vessels; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · vessel freight rates; · the price of steel and vessel equipment; · technological advances in the design and capacity of vessels; · potential conversion of vessels to alternative use; · changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; · port or canal congestion; · the number of vessels that are out of service at a given time; and · changes in global crude oil production. 5 The international tanker industry has recently experienced volatile charter rates and vessel values and there can be no assurance that these charter rates and vessel values will return to their previous levels, and a continued downturn in these markets may have an adverse effect on our earnings, impair the carrying value of our vessels and affect compliance with our loan covenants. The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a U.S. dollar daily average of charter rates issued by the Baltic Exchange that takes into account input from brokers around the world regarding crude oil fixtures for various routes and tanker vessel sizes, declined from a high of 2,347 in July 2008 to a low of 453 in mid-April 2009, which represented a decline of 80%. Although the index rose to 795 as of April 2, 2015, there can be no assurance that the crude oil charter market will increase further, and the market could again decline. The Baltic Clean Tanker Index fell from 1,509 points as of June 19, 2008, to 345 points as of April 4, 2009. The index rose to 908 as of December 23, 2011, but has since dropped again to 665 as of as of April 2, 2015. The dramatic decline in charter rates was due to various factors, including (i) the significant fall in demand for crude oil and petroleum products, (ii) the consequent rising inventories of crude oil and petroleum products in the United States and in other industrialized nations and the corresponding reduction in oil refining, (iii) the dramatic fall in the price of oil in 2008, and (iv) the restrictions on crude oil production imposed by OPEC and non-OPEC oil producing countries. From 2009 and to 2014, the above-mentioned factors affecting the Baltic Dirty and Clean Tanker Indices partially subsided, thereby allowing for the recovery of rates and a stabilization of tanker vessel values. However, another drop in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the charter rates in the tanker market decline from their current levels, our future earnings may be adversely affected, we may have to record impairment adjustments to the carrying values of our fleet and we may not be able to comply with the financial covenants in our loan agreements. The instability of the Euro or the inability of countries to refinance their debts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. As a result of the credit crisis in Europe, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to Eurozone countries in financial difficulties that seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, which was established on September 27, 2012 to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the Euro. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for oil and consequently for our services. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Volatile economic conditions throughout the world could have an adverse impact on our operations and financial results. The world economy continues to face a number of new challenges, turmoil and hostilities in the Middle East, North Africa and other geographic areas and continuing economic weakness in the European Union. A deterioration in the global economy may cause a decrease in worldwide demand for certain goods and, thus, shipping. In the past, economic and governmental factors, together with concurrent declines in charter rates and vessel values, have had a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, causing the price of our common shares to decline. The European Union continues to experience relatively slow growth and exhibit weak economic trends. Over the past six years, the credit markets in Europe have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and European authorities continue to implement a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Since 2008, lending by financial institutions worldwide remains at lower levels compared to the period preceding 2008. The continued economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region, especially in Japan and China, may exacerbate the effect onus of the recent slowdown in the rest of the world. Before the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China had one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP, which had a significant impact on shipping demand. The growth rate of China's GDP for the year ended December 31, 2014 was 7.4%, down from a growth rate of 7.7%for the year ended December 31, 2013 and remaining below pre-2008 levels. China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region may continue to experience slow or even negative economic growth in the future. Our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospects, would likely be impeded by a continuing or worsening economic downturn in any of these countries. 6 Among other factors, we face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world. The current state of the global financial markets and current economic conditions may adversely impact our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and otherwise negatively impact our business. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile. This volatility has negatively affected the general willingness of banks and other financial institutions to extend credit, particularly in the shipping industry, due to the historically volatile asset values of vessels. The shipping industry, which is highly dependent on the availability of credit to finance and expand operations, has been and may continue to be negatively affected by this decline. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at all or on terms similar to current debt and reduced, and in some cases ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that financing will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be unable to enhance our existing business, complete additional vessel acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. In addition, at times, lower demand for crude oil as well as diminished trade credit available for the delivery of such crude oil have led to decreased demand for tankers creating downward pressure on charter rates. If the current global economic environment worsens, we may be negatively affected in the following ways: · we may not be able to employ our vessels at charter rates as favorable to us as historical rates or at all or operate our vessels profitably; and · the market value of our vessels could decrease, which may cause us to recognize losses if any of our vessels are sold or if their values are impaired. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels will operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These regulations include, but are not limited to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, or MARPOL, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, generally referred to as CLC, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, or Bunker Convention, the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, the International Safety Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code, the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Water and Sediments, or the BWM Convention, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the U.S. Clean Water Act, the U.S. Clean Air Act, the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or the MTSA, and European Union regulations. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. 7 Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Furthermore, the 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or other events, may result in further regulation of the shipping industry, and modifications to statutory liability schemes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although insurance covers certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. We are subject to international safety regulations and requirements imposed by classification societies and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations' International Maritime Organization's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires ship owners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. We expect that any vessels that we acquire in the future will be ISM Code-certified when delivered to us. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports, including United States and European Union ports. In addition, the hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. If a vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable, which will negatively impact our revenues and results from operations. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries and the IMO have adopted regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures may include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. In addition, although the emissions of greenhouse gases from international shipping currently are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, a new treaty may be adopted in the future that includes restrictions on shipping emissions. Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our vessels and require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities may also be adversely affected. Adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change, including growing public concern about the environmental impact of climate change, may also adversely affect demand for our services. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other concerns relating to climate change may reduce the demand for oil and gas in the future or create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. 8 Our vessels may suffer damage due to the inherent operational risks of the tanker industry and we may experience unexpected dry-docking costs, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather and other acts of God, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, the payment of ransoms, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships or delay or re-routing, which may also subject us to litigation. In addition, the operation of tankers has unique operational risks associated with the transportation of oil. An oil spill may cause significant environmental damage, and the costs associated with a catastrophic spill could exceed the insurance coverage available to us. Compared to other types of vessels, tankers are exposed to a higher risk of damage and loss by fire, whether ignited by a terrorist attack, collision, or other cause, due to the high flammability and high volume of the oil transported in tankers. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at dry-docking facilities is sometimes limited and not all dry-docking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable dry-docking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a dry-docking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant dry-docking facilities would decrease our earnings. In the case of bareboat chartered-out vessels, drydocking risks, expenses and loss of hire or freight revenue affect the bareboat charterer and not the shipowner, for the duration of the bareboat charter. In the case of our bareboat chartered-in vessels , drydocking risks, expenses and loss of hire or freight revenue affect us. The market value of our vessels, and those we may acquire in the future, may fluctuate significantly, which could cause us to incur losses if we decide to sell them following a decline in their market values or we may be required to write down their carrying value, which will adversely affect our earnings. The fair market value of our vessels may increase and decrease depending on the following factors: · general economic and market conditions affecting the international tanker shipping industry; · prevailing level of charter rates; · competition from other shipping companies; · types, sizes and ages of vessels; · other modes of transportation; · supply and demand for vessels; · cost of newbuildings; · price of steel; · governmental or other regulations; and · technological advances. 9 If we sell any vessel at a time when vessel prices have fallen, the sale price may be less than the vessel's carrying amount in our financial statements, in which case we will realize a loss. Vessel prices can fluctuate significantly, and in the case where the market value falls below the carrying amount we will evaluate the asset for a potential impairment adjustment and may be required to write down the carrying amount of the vessel in our financial statements and incur a loss and a reduction in earnings, if the estimate of undiscounted cash flows, excluding interest charges, expected to be generated by the use of the asset is less than its carrying amount. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Policies—Impairment of Vessels." An over-supply of tanker capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The market supply of tankers is affected by a number of factors such as demand for energy resources, oil and petroleum products, as well as strong overall economic growth in part of the world economy, including Asia. As of December 31, 2014, newbuilding orders have been placed for an aggregate of approximately 15.2% of the existing global tanker fleet with the bulk of deliveries expected during 2015 to 2016. An over-supply of tankers has already resulted in an increase in tanker charter hire rate volatility. If this volatility persists, we may not be able to find a profitable charter for our vessels. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, which could adversely affect our business, reputation and the market for our common stock. From time to time on charterers' instructions, vessels in our fleet may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria, despite provisions in our charters prohibiting charterers from calling on ports in countries that are subject to U.S., E.U. and United Nations sanctions. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to companies such as ours and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. In addition, in 2012, President Obama signed Executive Order 13608 which prohibits foreign persons from violating or attempting to violate, or causing a violation of any sanctions in effect against Iran or facilitating any deceptive transactions for or on behalf of any person subject to U.S. sanctions. Any persons found to be in violation of Executive Order 13608 will be deemed a foreign sanctions evader and will be banned from all contacts with the United States, including conducting business in U.S. dollars. Also in 2012, President Obama signed into law the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, or the Iran Threat Reduction Act, which created new sanctions and strengthened existing sanctions. Among other things, the Iran Threat Reduction Act intensifies existing sanctions regarding the provision of goods, services, infrastructure or technology to Iran's petroleum or petrochemical sector. The Iran Threat Reduction Act also includes a provision requiring the President of the United States to impose five or more sanctions from Section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, on a person the President determines is a controlling beneficial owner of, or otherwise owns, operates, or controls or insures a vessel that was used to transport crude oil from Iran to another country and (1) if the person is a controlling beneficial owner of the vessel, the person had actual knowledge the vessel was so used or (2) if the person otherwise owns, operates, or controls, or insures the vessel, the person knew or should have known the vessel was so used. Such a person could be subject to a variety of sanctions, including exclusion from U.S. capital markets, exclusion from financial transactions subject to U.S. jurisdiction, and exclusion of that person's vessels from U.S. ports for up to two years. On November 24, 2013, the P5+1 (the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia and China) entered into an interim agreement with Iran entitled the "Joint Plan of Action" (the "JPOA"). Under the JPOA, it was agreed that, in exchange for Iran taking certain voluntary measures to ensure that its nuclear program is used only for peaceful purposes, the U.S. and E.U. would voluntarily suspend certain sanctions for a period of six months. On January 20, 2014, the U.S. and E.U. indicated that they would begin implementing the temporary relief measures provided for under the JPOA. These measures included, among other things, the suspension of certain sanctions on the Iranian petrochemicals, precious metals, and automotive industries from January 20, 2014 until July 20, 2014. The U.S. initially extended the JPOA until November 24, 2014, and it has since extended it until June 30, 2015.Although it is our intention to comply with the provisions of the JPOA, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future as such regulations and U.S. sanctions may be amended over time, and the U.S. retains the authority to revoke the aforementioned relief if Iran fails to meet its commitments under the JPOA. 10 Due to the nature of our business and the evolving nature of the foregoing sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance at all times in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines, penalties or other sanctions that could severely impact our ability to access U.S. capital markets and conduct our business, and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in us. In addition, certain institutional investors may have investment policies or restrictions that prevent them from holding securities of companies that have contracts with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The determination by these investors not to invest in, or to divest from, our common stock may adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. In addition, our reputation and the market for our securities may be adversely affected if we engage in certain other activities, such as entering into charters with individuals or entities in countries subject to U.S. sanctions and embargo laws that are not controlled by the governments of those countries, or engaging in operations associated with those countries pursuant to contracts with third parties that are unrelated to those countries or entities controlled by their governments. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. World events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The continuing conflicts in Korea, the Middle East, and North Africa, and the presence of the United States and other armed forces in Afghanistan, may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain additional financing or, if we are able to obtain financing, to do so on terms unfavorable to us. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as South China Sea, Arabian Sea, Red Sea, the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia, the Indian Ocean and the Gulf of Guinea. Sea piracy incidents continue to occur, particularly in the Gulf of Aden, the Indian Ocean, and increasingly in the Gulf of Guinea, with tankers particularly vulnerable to such attacks. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed that insurers characterize as "war risk" zones or by the Joint War Committee as "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs which may be incurred to the extent we employ onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends and may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to our customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to us under our charters. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in respects such as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year plans, or State Plans, are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through State Plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 11 Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of, delay in the loading, off-loading or delivery of, the contents of our vessels or the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our business. Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, operating expense for many of our shipping operations when our vessels are not under period charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC, and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Despite recent low fuel prices in the beginning of 2015, fuel may become more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. When our vessels are under period employment the fuel cost is borne by the charterer. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY If we are unable to obtain financing required to complete payments on our newbuildings, we may lose all or a portion of the payments previously made. As of December 31, 2014, we had contractual commitments for the acquisition of the five newbuilding vessels of our fleet totaling approximately $119.8 million, of which $50.4 million was scheduled to be due in 2015 and $69.5 million was scheduled to be due in 2016. We had, as of December 31, 2014, an unrestricted cash balance of $0 million. Although we sold and leased back two of our vessels in 2015, the M/T Stenaweco Energy and the M/T Stenaweco Evolution for total proceeds of $57 million, we will still be required to use cash or incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of additional equity or debt securities to fund the delivery installments for Hull Nos. S418, S419, S414 and S417, and to acquire further vessels. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. If we are not able to borrow additional funds, raise other capital or utilize available cash on hand, we may not be able to take delivery of our contracted newbuildings or acquire other newbuilding or secondhand vessels, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If for any reason we fail to make a payment when due, which may result in a default under our construction contracts, or otherwise fail to take delivery of a vessel, we would be prevented from realizing potential revenues from this vessel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we could also lose all or a portion of our payments to the shipyard for the contracts that were paid by us and we could be liable for penalties and damages under such contracts. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, which could limit our financial flexibility and ability to pursue other business opportunities. Newbuilding projects are subject to risks that could cause delays. As of the date of this annual report, we have entered into shipbuilding contracts for four newbuilding vessels scheduled to be delivered from Hyundai Mipo Dockyard Co., Ltd., or Hyundai Dockyard, between the third quarter of 2015 and the third quarter of 2016. Newbuilding construction projects are subject to risks of delay inherent in any large construction project caused by numerous factors, including shortages of equipment, materials or skilled labor, unscheduled delays in the delivery of ordered materials and equipment or shipyard construction, failure of equipment to meet quality and/or performance standards, financial or operating difficulties experienced by equipment vendors or the shipyard, unanticipated actual or purported change orders, inability to obtain required permits or approvals, design or engineering changes and work stoppages and other labor disputes, adverse weather conditions, bankruptcy or other financial crisis of the shipyard, a backlog of orders at the shipyard, or any other events of force majeure. A yard's failure to complete the project on time may result in the delay of revenue from the vessel. Any such failure or delay could have a material adverse effect on our operating results as we will continue to incur other costs to operate our business. 12 Our operating fleet consists of two MR product tankers, the M/T Stenaweco Energy and the M/T Stenaweco Evolution. Any limitation in the availability or operation of these vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating fleet as of the date of this annual report consists of two bareboat chartered-in MR product tankers, the M/T Stenaweco Energy and the M/T Stenaweco Evolution. Until the delivery of one or more of the newbuilding vessels for which we have contracted, which are scheduled to be delivered to us between the third quarter of 2015 and the third quarter of 2016, or until we identify and acquire additional vessels, we will depend upon these vessels for all of our revenue. If these vessels are unable to generate revenue as a result of off-hire time, early termination of the applicable time charter or otherwise, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay dividends on our common shares could be materially adversely affected. We expect to be dependent on a limited number of customers for a large part of our revenues, and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses or negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. In the future we may enter into various contracts, including pooling arrangements, charter agreements, shipbuilding contracts and credit facilities. All of our revenues are currently derived from one charterer, Stena Weco A/S and upon delivery of our four newbuildings under construction, unless we acquire additional vessels, we expect that the majority of our revenues will be derived from three charterers, Stena Weco A/S, BP Shipping Limited and Dampskibsselskabet NORDEN A/S. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to perform its obligations under a contract with us will depend on a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions, the condition of the maritime industry, the overall financial condition of the counterparty, charter rates received for specific types of vessels, and various expenses. The combination of a reduction of cash flow resulting from declines in world trade, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of availability of debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in the ability of charterers to make charter payments to us. In addition, in depressed market conditions, charterers and customers may no longer need a vessel that is then under charter or contract or may be able to obtain a comparable vessel at lower rates. As a result, charterers and customers may seek to renegotiate the terms of their existing charter agreements or avoid their obligations under those contracts. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our sale and leaseback agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our existing sale and leaseback agreements for the M/T Stenaweco Energy and M/T Stenaweco Evolution contain, and any future financing arrangements are expected to contain, customary covenants and event of default clauses, including cross-default provisions and restrictive covenants and performance requirements, which may affect operational and financial flexibility. Such restrictions could affect, and in many respects limit or prohibit, among other things, our ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens, sell assets, or engage in mergers or acquisitions. These restrictions could limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions or meet extraordinary capital needs or otherwise restrict corporate activities. There can be no assurance that such restrictions will not adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Our sale and leaseback agreements require us to maintain specified financial ratios, satisfy financial covenants and contain cross-default clauses. These financial ratios and covenants include requirements that we: · maintain a consolidated leverage ratio of not more than 75%; and · maintain minimum free liquidity of $0.75 million per vessel and $0.5 million per bareboated chartered-in vessel; As of the date of this report, we are in compliance with the consolidated leverage ratio and the minimum free liquidity covenants. As a result of the restrictions in our sale and leaseback agreements, or similar restrictions in our future financing arrangements, we may need to seek permission from the owners of our leased vessels or our future lenders in order to engage in certain corporate actions. Their interests may be different from ours and we may not be able to obtain their permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that we believe are in our best interest, which may adversely impact our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. 13 A failure by us to meet our payment and other obligations, including our financial covenant requirements, could lead to defaults under our sale and leaseback agreement or our future financing arrangements. If we are not in compliance with our covenants and we are not able to obtain covenant waivers or modifications, the owners of our leased vessels or our future lenders, as appropriate, could require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments or pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, or they could accelerate our indebtedness, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. We could lose our vessels if our future indebtedness is accelerated or if we default on our sale and leaseback agreements and we cannot obtain additional financing. The loss of our vessels would mean we could not continue to run our business. Due to market conditions, we may sell our newbuilding vessels at a loss or incur impairment charges. As of the date of this report we have entered into shipbuilding contracts for four newbuilding vessels scheduled to be delivered from Hyundai Dockyard between the third quarter of 2015 and the third quarter of 2016. Since the summer of 2008, vessel values in the tanker industry have been very volatile. If we sell any vessel at a time when vessel prices have fallen, the sale price may be less than the vessel's carrying amount in our financial statements, in which case we will realize a loss. Vessel prices can fluctuate significantly, and in the case where the market value falls below the carrying amount, we will evaluate the asset for a potential impairment adjustment and may be required to write down the carrying amount of the vessel in our financial statements and incur a loss and a reduction in earnings if the estimate of undiscounted cash flows, excluding interest charges, expected to be generated by the use of the asset is less than its carrying amount. Servicing future debt will limit funds available for other purposes and impair our ability to react to changes in our business. To finance our fleet expansion program, we intend to incur secured indebtedness. For example, we have signed a firm commitment letter with ABN AMRO BANK N.V. for a senior debt facility of up to $42 million to fund, in part, the delivery of Hull Nos. S418 and S419 due in the third quarter of 2015 and first quarter of 2016, respectively. We must dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. As of December 31, 2014, we had a total indebtedness of $19.4 million. As of the date of this annual report, and as a result of the sale and leaseback agreements for the M/T Stenaweco Energy and M/T Stenaweco Evolution we have no indebtedness. Our future level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of, our indebtedness. Our future debt could also have other significant consequences. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion, if not all, of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt or better access to capital; · limit our ability to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all; and · adversely impact our ability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our sale and leaseback and future credit agreements, which could result in an event of default under such agreements. Furthermore, our future interest expense could increase if interest rates increase. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our future debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, and we cannot guarantee that the resulting proceeds therefrom, if any, will be sufficient to meet our ongoing capital and operating needs. 14 If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share. We intend to continue to grow our fleet in the future. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to: · generate excess cash flow for investment without jeopardizing our ability to cover current and foreseeable working capital needs (including debt service); · raise equity and obtain required financing for our existing and new operations; · locate and acquire suitable vessels; · identify and consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; · integrate any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; · hire, train and retain qualified personnel and crew to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; · enhance our customer base; and · manage expansion. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans and we may incur significant additional expenses and losses in connection therewith. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on our ability to charter our vessels, including newbuilding vessels upon delivery, the performance of our current and then-existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. Our inability to charter our vessels, including our newbuilding vessels when they are delivered to us, and the actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain financing, or receiving financing at a higher than anticipated cost, may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. In the highly competitive international tanker shipping market, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We will employ our tankers and any additional vessels we intend to acquire in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. The operation of tanker vessels and the transportation of cargoes shipped in these vessels, as well as the shipping industry in general, is extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker shipping companies, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of oil and refined petroleum products can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets than us. A limited number of financial institutions hold our cash including financial institutions located in Greece. A limited number of financial institutions, including institutions located in Greece, hold all of our cash. Our cash balances have been deposited from time to time with banks in Monaco, Germany, United Kingdom and Greece amongst others. Of the financial institutions located in Greece, some are subsidiaries of international banks and others are Greek financial institutions. These balances are not covered by insurance in the event of default by these financial institutions. The occurrence of such a default could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and we may lose part or all of our cash that we deposit with such banks. 15 We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, securities litigation, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the international tanker shipping industry, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. All of our executive officers are employees of Central Mare Inc, or Central Mare, a related party controlled by the family of our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director, Evangelos Pistiolis and we have entered into agreements with Central Mare for the compensation of our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director, Evangelos Pistiolis, our Chief Financial Officer and Director, Alexandros Tsirikos, our Executive Vice President, Chairman and Director, Vangelis Ikonomou, and our Chief Technical Officer, Demetris Souroullas. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers. If labor interruptions are not resolved in a timely manner, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and available cash. Central Shipping Monaco SAM, or CSM, which we refer to as our Fleet Manager, a related party controlled by the family of our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director, Evangelos Pistiolis, is responsible for recruiting, mainly through a crewing agent, the senior officers and all other crew members for our vessels and all other vessels we may acquire. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out as we expect and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and available cash. If we expand our business, we will need to improve our operations and financial systems and staff; if we cannot improve these systems or recruit suitable employees, our performance may be adversely affected. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate if we implement a plan to expand the size of our fleet, and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our performance may be adversely affected. A drop in spot charter rates may provide an incentive for some charterers to default on their charters, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. When we enter into a time charter or bareboat charter, rates under that charter are fixed throughout the term of the charter. If the spot charter rates in the tanker shipping industry become significantly lower than the time charter equivalent rates that some of our charterers are obligated to pay us under our then existing charters, the charterers may have incentive to default under that charter or attempt to renegotiate the charter. If our charterers fail to pay their obligations, we would have to attempt to re-charter our vessels at lower charter rates, and as a result we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and financial condition, which would affect our ability to meet our future loan or current leaseback obligations. If our future lenders choose to accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens, or if the owners of our leased vessels choose to repossess vessels in our fleet as a result of a default under the sale and leaseback agreements, our ability to continue to conduct our business would be impaired. 16 An increase in operating costs could decrease earnings and available cash. Vessel operating costs include the costs of crew, fuel (for spot chartered vessels), provisions, deck and engine stores, insurance and maintenance and repairs, which depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Some of these costs, primarily relating to insurance and enhanced security measures, have been increasing. If any vessels we acquire suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydocking repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. Increases in any of these expenses could decrease our earnings and available cash. In the case of bareboat chartered-out vessels, operating expenses and loss of hire or freight revenue due to repairs or damages, affect the bareboat charterer and not the shipowner for the duration of the bareboat charter. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. As our fleet ages, operating and other costs will increase. In the case of bareboat charters, operating costs are borne by the bareboat charterer. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. As our fleet ages, market conditions might not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, our revenue will decline at the end of a vessel's useful life ,which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement, we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their remaining useful lives, which we estimate to be 25 years from the date of initial delivery from the shipyard. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Purchasing and operating previously owned or secondhand vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. We may expand our fleet through the acquisition of previously owned vessels. While we rigorously inspect previously owned, or secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Accordingly, we may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels prior to purchase. Any such hidden defects or problems, when detected, may be expensive to repair, and if not detected, may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. Also, when purchasing previously owned vessels, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if the vessels we buy are older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age and type of the vessel. In the case of chartered-in vessels, we run the same risks. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose any vessels that we acquire. We carry insurance for all vessels we acquire against those types of risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. These insurances include hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage and war risk insurance. Reasonable insurance rates can best be obtained when the size and the age/trading profile of the fleet is attractive. As a result, rates become less competitive as a fleet downsizes. In the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for the vessels we acquire. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible as well as limitations and exclusions which may nevertheless increase our costs or lower our revenue. 17 We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, as we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, in amounts based on our claim records and the claim records of our fleet managers as well as the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. In addition, our protection and indemnity associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The smuggling of drugs or other contraband onto our vessels may lead to governmental claims against us. Our vessels may call in ports where smugglers may attempt to hide drugs and other contraband on vessels, with or without the knowledge of crew members. To the extent our vessels are found with contraband, whether inside or attached to the hull of our vessel and whether with or without the knowledge of any of our crew, we may face governmental or other regulatory claims which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Maritime claimants could arrest vessels we acquire, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by "arresting" or "attaching" a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more vessels we acquire could result in a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hired period. In addition, in jurisdictions where the "sister ship" theory of liability applies, a claimant may arrest the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. In countries with "sister ship" liability laws, claims might be asserted against us or any of our vessels for liabilities of other vessels that we own. Governments could requisition vessels we acquire during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition vessels for title or hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of any vessels we acquire could negatively impact our revenues should we not receive adequate compensation. U.S. federal tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. Income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income" for this purpose. U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. In general, income derived from the bareboat charter of a vessel should be treated as "passive income" for purposes of determining whether a foreign corporation is a PFIC, and such vessel should be treated as an asset which produces or is held for the production of "passive income." On the other hand, income derived from the time charter of a vessel should not be treated as "passive income" for such purpose, but rather should be treated as services income; likewise, a time chartered vessel should generally not be treated as an asset which produces or is held for the production of "passive income." We believe that we were a PFIC for our 2013 taxable year because we believe that at least 50% of the average value of our assets consisted of vessels which were bareboat chartered and at least 75% of our gross income was derived from vessels on bareboat charter. Based on our current assets and activities, however, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC for our 2014 taxable year and subsequent taxable years. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute ''passive income,'' and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. 18 Our U.S. shareholders may face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences and certain information reporting obligations as a result of us being treated as a PFIC. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under "Taxation– U.S. Federal Income Consequences—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders"), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of their common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of the common shares. See "Taxation —U.S. Federal Income Consequences—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders" for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders as a result of our status as a PFIC. In addition, as a result of being treated as a PFIC for the 2013 taxable year, any dividends paid by us during 2014 will not be eligible to be treated as "qualified dividend income," which would otherwise be eligible for preferential tax rates in the hands of non-corporate U.S. shareholders. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not begin and end, in the United States is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code. Although we have qualified for this statutory exemption in previous taxable years and have taken this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes and we believe to qualify for the 2014 taxable year, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of the exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. For example, we would fail to qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for a particular tax year if shareholders, each of whom owned, actually or under applicable constructive ownership rules, a 5% or greater interest in the vote and value of our common stock, owned in the aggregate 50% or more of the vote and value of such stock, and "qualified shareholders" as defined by the Treasury regulation under Section 883 of the Code did not own, directly or under applicable constructive ownership rules, sufficient shares in our closely-held block of common stock to preclude the shares in that closely-held block that are not so owned from representing 50% or more of the value of our common stock for more than half of the number of days during the taxable year. Establishing such ownership by qualified shareholders will depend upon the status of certain of our direct or indirect shareholders as residents of qualifying jurisdictions and whether those shareholders own their shares through bearer share arrangements. In addition, such shareholders will also be required to comply with ownership certification procedures attesting that they are residents of qualifying jurisdictions, and each intermediary or other person in the chain of ownership between us and such shareholders must undertake similar compliance procedures. Due to the factual nature of the issues involved, we may not qualify for exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any future taxable year. Fluctuations in exchange rates could affect our results of operations because we generate a portion of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur certain expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars, mainly Euros. During 2014, approximately 11% of our expenses were in Euros and approximately 1% were in currencies other than the U.S. dollar or Euro. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular, the Euro. Should the Euro appreciate relative to the U.S. dollar in future periods, our expenses will increase in U.S. dollar terms, thereby decreasing our net income. We have not hedged these risks and therefore our operating results could suffer as a result. Because the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board is not currently permitted to inspect our independent accounting firm, you may not benefit from such inspections. Auditors of U.S. public companies are required by law to undergo periodic Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, inspections that assess their compliance with U.S. law and professional standards in connection with performance of audits of financial statements filed with the SEC. Certain European Union countries, including Greece, do not currently permit the PCAOB to conduct inspections of accounting firms established and operating in such European Union countries, even if they are part of major international firms. The PCAOB conducted inspections in Greece in 2008 and evaluated our auditor's performance of audits of SEC registrants and our auditor's quality controls. The PCAOB issued its report which can be found on the PCAOB website. Currently, however, the PCAOB is unable to conduct inspections in Greece until a cooperation agreement between the PCAOB and the Greek Accounting & Auditing Standards Oversight Board is reached. Accordingly, unlike for most U.S. public companies, should the PCAOB again wish to conduct an inspection it is currently prevented from evaluating our auditor's performance of audits and its quality control procedures, and, unlike shareholders of most U.S. public companies, our shareholders would be deprived of the possible benefits of such inspections. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON SHARES Our share price may continue to be highly volatile, which could lead to a loss of all or part of a shareholder's investment. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely since our common shares began trading in July of 2004 on the Nasdaq National Market, now the Nasdaq Global Select Market, which we refer to as Nasdaq. Over the last few years, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. During 2014, the closing price of our common shares experienced a high of $13.93 on January 22, 2014 and a low of $1.04 on December 29, 2014. On August 21, 2012, we received a notification of deficiency from Nasdaq stating that market value of our publicly-held shares fell below certain minimum requirements for listing on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, with a grace period of 180 calendar days to regain compliance. We regained compliance within the applicable grace period. In addition, because the market price of our common shares has dropped below $5.00 per share, brokers generally prohibit shareholders from using such shares as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts. This inability to continue to use our common shares as collateral may lead to sales of such shares creating downward pressure on and increased volatility in the market price of our common shares. Furthermore, if the volatility in the market continues or worsens, it could have a further adverse effect on the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. 19 The market price of our common shares is due to a variety of factors, including: · fluctuations in interest rates; · fluctuations in the availability or the price of oil; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · announcements by us or our competitors; · changes in our relationships with customers or suppliers; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our semi-annual and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; · changes in United States or foreign tax laws; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results from period to period; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; · market conditions in the shipping industry and the general state of the securities markets; · mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; · changes in government regulation; · a general or industry-specific decline in the demand for, and price of, shares of our common stock resulting from capital market conditions independent of our operating performance; · the loss of any of our key management personnel; and · our failure to successfully implement our business plan. There may not be a continuing public market for you to resell our common shares. Our common shares currently trade on the Nasdaq Global Select Market; however, an active and liquid public market for our common shares may not continue and you may not be able to sell your common shares in the future at the price that you paid for them or at all. Further, lack of trading volume in our stock may affect investors' ability to sell their shares. Our common shares have been experiencing low daily trading volumes in the market. As a result, investors may be unable to sell all of their shares in the desired time period, or may only be able to sell such shares at a significant discount to the previous closing price. Certain existing stockholders, who hold approximately 45.4% of our common stock, may have the power to exert control over us, which may limit your ability to influence our actions. As of the date of this annual report, Sovereign Holdings Inc., or Sovereign, Epsilon Holdings Inc., or Epsilon, Oscar Shipholding Ltd, or Oscar Shipholding, Race Navigation Inc., or Race Navigation, companies that are wholly-owned by Evangelos Pistiolis, as well as Tankers Family Inc. that is owned by the family of Mr. Pistiolis own approximately 45.4% of our outstanding common shares. In addition, Race Navigation holds 1,250,000 warrants to purchase common shares at an exercise price of $2.50 per common share. Due to the number of shares he indirectly holds, Mr. Pistiolis, through Sovereign, Epsilon, Oscar Shipholding and Race Navigation, has the power to exert considerable influence over our actions and to effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of our directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of Mr. Pistiolis may be different from your interests. Shareholders may experience significant dilution as a result of future equity offerings or issuance if shares are sold at prices significantly below the price at which shareholders invested. We may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank in the future in connection with, among other things, any exercise of our outstanding warrants issued in June 2014, future vessel acquisitions, repayment of outstanding indebtedness, or our equity incentive plan, without shareholder approval, in a number of circumstances. Our existing shareholders may experience significant dilution if we issue shares in the future at prices below the price at which previous shareholders invested. 20 Our issuance of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank would have the following effects: · our existing shareholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; · the amount of cash available for dividends payable on the shares of our common stock may decrease; · the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common share may be diminished; and · the market price of the shares of our common stock may decline. Future issuances or sales, or the potential for future issuances or sales, of our common shares may cause the trading price of our securities to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. We have issued a significant number of our common shares and we anticipate that we will continue to do so in the future. Shares to be issued in relation to a future follow-on offering could cause the market price of our common shares to decline, and could have an adverse effect on our earnings per share if and when we become profitable. In addition, future sales of our common shares or other securities in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common shares to decline, and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. Future issuance of common shares may trigger antidilution provisions in our outstanding warrants and affect the interests of our common shareholders. The warrants we issued in June 2014, or our 2014 Warrants, contain antidilution provisions that could be triggered by the issuance of common shares in a future offering, depending on their offering price. For instance, the issuance by us of common shares for less than $2.50 per common share, which is the current exercise price for the 2014 Warrants, could result in an adjustment downward of the exercise price of the 2014 Warrants. This adjustment could affect the interests of our common shareholders and the trading price for our common shares. Moreover, future issuance of other equity or debt convertible into or issuable or exchangeable for common shares at a price per share less than the then current exercise price of the 2014 Warrants would result in an adjustment downward of the exercise price. Additionally, we value our 2014 Warrants liability at the closing of each fiscal quarter. If the market price of our common stock at the end of the relevant quarter is higher than the previous quarter, we will realize a non-cash loss attributable to the change in market value. Should the market price of our common stock rise, our Warrants liability will increase correspondingly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law and as a result, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections under Marshall Islands law than under atypical jurisdiction in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. 21 It may not be possible for investors to serve process on or enforce U.S. judgments against us. We and all of our subsidiaries are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the U.S. In addition, most of our directors and officers are non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries or our directors and officers or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, amalgamation or acquisition, which could reduce the market price of our common shares. Several provisions of our Third Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated By-Laws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our Board of Directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: · authorizing our Board of Directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock without shareholder approval; · providing for a classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms; · prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; · authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote for the directors; · prohibiting shareholder action by written consent unless the written consent is signed by all shareholders entitled to vote on the action; · limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, we have entered into a Stockholders Rights Agreement that will make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of our Board of Directors and principal shareholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may reduce the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. 22 RISKS RELATED TO OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR FLEET MANAGER AND ITS AFFILIATES We are dependent on our Fleet Manager to perform the day-to-day management of our fleet. Our executive management team consists of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Evangelos Pistiolis, our Chief Financial Officer, Alexandros Tsirikos, our Executive Vice President, Vangelis Ikonomou, and our Chief Technical Officer, Demetris Souroullas. We subcontract the day-to-day vessel management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair to our Fleet Manager. Furthermore, upon delivery of our newbuilding vessels or any other vessels we acquire, we expect to subcontract their day-to-day management to our Fleet Manager. Our Fleet Manager is a related party controlled by the family of our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director, Evangelos Pistiolis. We are dependent on our Fleet Manager for the technical and commercial operation of our fleet and the loss of our Fleet Manager's services or its failure to perform obligations to us could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. If our Fleet Manager suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships it may harm our ability to: · continue to operate our vessels and service our customers; · renew existing charters upon their expiration; · obtain new charters; · obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; · obtain insurance on commercially acceptable terms; · maintain satisfactory relationships with our customers and suppliers; and · successfully execute our growth strategy. Our Fleet Manager is a privately held company and there may be limited or no publicly available information about it. Our Fleet Manager is a privately held company. The ability of our Fleet Manager to provide services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair our Fleet Manager's financial strength, and there may be limited publicly available information about its financial strength. As a result, an investor in our common shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting our Fleet Manager, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Our Fleet Manager may have conflicts of interest between us and its other clients. We subcontract the day-to-day vessel management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair to our Fleet Manager. Furthermore upon delivery of our newbuilding vessels or any other vessels we acquire, we expect to subcontract their day-to-day management to our Fleet Manager. Our Fleet Manager will provide similar services for vessels owned by other shipping companies, and it may provide similar services to companies with which our Fleet Manager is affiliated. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between our Fleet Manager's performance of its obligations to us, on the one hand, and our Fleet Manager's performance of its obligations to its other clients, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the crewing, supply provisioning and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus vessels owned by other clients of our Fleet Manager. In particular, our Fleet Manager may give preferential treatment to vessels owned by other clients whose arrangements provide for greater economic benefit to our Fleet Manager. These conflicts of interest may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 