Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the risks described below relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate principally to our indebtedness. The remaining risks relate principally to the securities markets generally and ownership of our common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business will suffer if we are unable to effectively respond to decreased demand for some of our products due to current conditions in the global economy. We have experienced and may continue to experience decreased demand for some of our products due to slowing global economic growth, the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, increased unemployment and other challenges currently affecting the global economy. In addition, our customers may experience deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. If we are unable to implement business strategies to effectively respond to decreased demand for our products, our financial position, cash flows and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate. Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Results could be adversely affected by general economic conditions causing a downturn in the market for paper products. Additional factors that could affect our results include, among others, the relative strength of the Euro versus the U.S. dollar, changes in the market price of pulp, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, changes in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and manufacturing yields, availability and cost of products from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, seasonal customer demand, increasing interest rates and environmental costs. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these or other factors could materially adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. We face many competitors, several of which have greater financial and other resources. We face competition in each of our business segments from companies that produce the same type of products that we produce or that produce alternative products that customers may use instead of our products. Many of our competitors have greater financial, sales and marketing, or research and development resources than we do. Greater financial resources and product development capabilities may also allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new opportunities or changes in customer requirements. The availability of and prices for raw materials and energy will significantly impact our business. We purchase a substantial portion of the raw materials and energy necessary to produce our products on the open market, and, as a result, the price and other terms of those purchases are subject to change based on factors such as worldwide supply and demand and government regulation. We do not have significant influence over our raw material or energy prices and generally do not possess enough power to pass increases in those prices along to purchasers of our products, unless those increases coincide with increased demand for the product. Therefore, raw material or energy prices could increase at the same time that prices for our products are decreasing. In addition, we may not be able to recoup other cost increases we may experience, such as those resulting from inflation or from increases in wages or salaries or increases in health care, pension or other employee benefits costs, insurance costs or other costs. An interruption in supply of a latex specialty grade or of specialty softwood pulp to our technical products business, each of which we currently obtain from a single source, could disrupt and eventually cause a shutdown of production of certain technical products. 10 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that our net operating losses (“NOLs”) will continue to be available to offset our tax liability and other tax positions may not be effective. As of December 31, 2008, we estimated that we had approximately $107 million of U.S. Federal tax NOLs which may be used to offset taxable income in the future. In order to utilize the NOLs, we must generate consolidated taxable income. The NOLs will expire if not used. The availability of NOLs to offset taxable income could also be substantially reduced if we were to undergo an “ownership change” within the meaning of Section 382(g)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code. We will be treated as having had an “ownership change” if there is more than a 50% increase in stock ownership during a three-year “testing period” by “5% stockholders.” The NOLs will expire in various amounts, if not used, between 2023 and 2028. In accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes—an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, as of December 31, 2008, we have recorded a liability of $0.2 million for uncertain tax positions where we believe it is “more likely than not” that the benefit reported on our income tax return will not be realized. There can be no assurance, however, that the amount of actual deductions that will not be realized will not exceed the amounts we have recognized for uncertain tax positions. We have significant obligations for pension and other postretirement benefits. We have significant obligations for pension and other postretirement benefits which could require future funding beyond that which we have funded in the past or which we currently anticipate. At December 31, 2008, our projected pension benefit obligations were $214.2 million and exceeded the fair value of pension plan assets by approximately $71.3 million. In 2008, total contributions to our pension trusts were $7.5 million. No assets have been set aside to satisfy our postretirement benefit obligations other than pensions. In 2008, we made payments for postretirement benefits other than pensions of $8.9 million. A material increase in funding requirements or benefit payments could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. The outcome of legal actions and claims may adversely affect us. We are involved in legal actions and claims arising in the ordinary course of our business. The outcome of such legal actions and claims against us cannot be predicted with certainty. The legal actions and claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Labor interruptions would adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our hourly paid employees are unionized. In addition, some of our key customers and suppliers are also unionized. As of December 31, 2008, we have approximately 430 hourly employees covered by collective bargaining agreements that will expire within the next 12 months. Strikes, lockouts or other work stoppages or slow downs involving our unionized employees could have a material adverse effect on us. We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from our acquisitions or from the planned timberlands sale which could adversely affect the value of our shares of common stock. In October 2006, we acquired Neenah German. In March 2007, we acquired the Fox Valley Corporation, which owns Fox River. In February 2008, we committed to a plan to sell our remaining timberlands. The acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. We acquired Neenah Germany with the expectation that, among other things, the acquisition would provide the two companies’ technical products businesses with added scale in the marketplace, better prospects for growth, and the ability to offer a broader array of premium products and better service to our customers. We acquired Fox River with the expectation that, among other things, the acquisition would provide the two companies’ fine paper businesses with added scale in the marketplace, better prospects for growth, and the ability to offer a broader array of premium branded products and better service to our customers. The value of our common shares in the future may be affected by the ability of the combined company to achieve the benefits expected to result from these acquisitions or from the sale of our timberlands. There can be no assurance that we will meet these challenges and that such diversion will not negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Future dividends on our common stock may be restricted or eliminated. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, we paid cash dividends of $0.40 per common share or approximately $6.0 million. Dividends are declared at the discretion of our board of directors, and future dividends will depend on our future earnings, cash flow, financial requirements and other factors. Our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock is limited under the terms of both our bank credit agreement and our senior notes. As of December 31, 2008, under the most restrictive terms of these agreements, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock is limited to a total of $8 million in a twelve-month period. There can be no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends in the future. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results. Exchange rate fluctuations for the Euro do not have a material effect on the operations or cash flows of our German technical products business. Our German technical products business incurs most of its costs and sells most of its production in Europe and, therefore, its operations and cash flows are not materially affected by changes in the exchange rate of the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar. Changes in the Euro exchange rate relative to the U.S. dollar will, however, have an effect on our reported results of operations. In addition, because we transact business in other foreign countries, some of our revenues and expenses are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of our operations. As a result, changes in exchange rates between the currency in which the transaction is denominated and the local currency of our operations into which the transaction is being recorded can impact the amount of local currency recorded for such transaction. This can result in more or less local currency revenues or costs related to such transaction, and thus have an effect on our reported income before income taxes. We have guaranteed the performance of Northern Pulp under the terms of a pulp supply agreement with Kimberly-Clark (the “Pulp Supply Agreement”). The failure of Northern Pulp to perform under Pulp Supply Agreement could require us pay damages to Kimberly-Clark if they are unable to purchase pulp at prices less than or equal to those specified in the Pulp Supply Agreement. The Pulp Supply Agreement requires Northern Pulp to supply and Kimberly-Clark to purchase 384,000 metric tons of pulp from the Pictou Mill through 2010. The prices at which Northern Pulp sells pulp to Kimberly-Clark under the Pulp Supply Agreement reflect a discount from published industry index prices. The commitments under the Pulp Supply Agreement are structured as supply-or-pay and take-or-pay arrangements. We have guaranteed certain obligations under the Pulp Supply Agreement; however, in the event that Northern Pulp and Kimberly-Clark enter into an amended agreement or make other material changes to the Pulp Supply Agreement, our guarantee obligations cease. Accordingly, if Northern Pulp does not supply the specified minimums and is not excused from supplying those amounts under the Pulp Supply Agreement, we may become obligated to pay Kimberly-Clark for the shortfall based on the difference between the contract price and any higher price that Kimberly-Clark pays to purchase the pulp, plus 10 percent of that difference. If such an event were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Our activities are subject to extensive government regulation, which could increase our costs, cause us to incur liabilities and adversely affect the manufacturing and marketing of our products. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and ordinances in the United States and Germany relating to various environmental, health and safety matters. The nature of our operations requires that we invest capital and incur operating costs to comply with those laws, regulations and ordinances and exposes us to the risk of claims concerning non-compliance with environmental, health and safety laws or standards. We cannot assure that significant additional expenditures will not be required to maintain compliance with, or satisfy potential claims arising from, such laws, regulations and ordinances. Future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations or contamination of sites owned, operated or used for waste disposal by us (including currently unknown contamination and contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites or other waste generators) may give rise to additional costs that could require significantly higher capital expenditures and operating costs, which would reduce the funds otherwise available for operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities or other purposes. 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness We may not be able to fund our future capital requirements internally or obtain third-party financing. We may be required or choose to obtain additional debt or equity financing to meet our future working capital requirements, as well as to fund capital expenditures and acquisitions. To the extent we must obtain financing from external sources to fund our capital requirements, we cannot guarantee financing will be available on favorable terms, if at all. As of December 31, 2008, we have required debt payments of $24.1 million and $105.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, respectively. Such required debt payments include approximately $17.3 million in November 2009 related to our German line of credit, which we renew annually and approximately $101.1 million due in November 2010 upon the termination of our bank credit agreement. We may not be able to generate a sufficient amount of cash flow to meet our debt obligations, including the notes. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to the notes, our other debt and our other liabilities will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations and other liabilities, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansions and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient to repay our debt in the future. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure our debt to meet our debt and other obligations, we can make no assurances as to the terms of any such transaction or how quickly any such transaction could be completed. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: · our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; · our senior secured lenders could terminate their commitments and commence foreclosure proceedings against our assets; and · we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines in the future or we breach our covenants under the revolving credit facility, we may need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our revolving credit facility to avoid being in default. We may not be able to obtain these waivers. If this occurs, we would be in default under the revolving credit facility. We have significant indebtedness which subjects us to restrictive covenants relating to the operation of our business. As of December 31, 2008, we had $225 million of senior notes, a term loan of $7.2 million and $14.0 million of project financing outstanding. In addition, our borrowing base under our revolving credit agreement was $152 million and borrowings of $101.1 million were outstanding. Our leverage could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the notes and our other indebtedness; · place us at a disadvantage to our competitors; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes; · increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or the industry in which we operate; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes; and · limit our ability to plan for and react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. 13 Table of Contents The terms of our indebtedness, including the revolving credit facility, term loan and the indenture governing the notes, contain covenants restricting our ability to, among other things, incur certain additional debt, make specified restricted payments and capital expenditures, pay dividends, authorize or issue capital stock, enter into transactions with our affiliates, consolidate or merge with or acquire another business, sell certain of our assets or liquidate, dissolve or wind-up our company. At December 31, 2008, under the most restrictive terms of these agreements, our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock is limited to a total of $8 million in a 12-month period. In addition, the terms of our revolving credit facility require us to achieve and maintain certain specified financial ratios if availability under our revolving credit facility is less than $25 million. These restrictions may limit our ability to engage in activities which could expand our business, including obtaining future financing, making needed capital expenditures or taking advantage of business opportunities such as strategic acquisitions and dispositions. Our revolving credit facility accrues interest at variable rates. As of December 31, 2008, we had $101.1 million of borrowings outstanding, $1.6 million in outstanding letters of credit and $49.2 million of remaining availability. We may reduce our exposure to rising interest rates by entering into interest rate hedging arrangements, although those arrangements may result in us incurring higher interest expenses than we would incur without the arrangements. If interest rates increase in the absence of such arrangements, we will need to dedicate more of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt. For more information on our liquidity, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our revolving credit facility or the indenture governing the notes could result in an event of default that could cause acceleration of our indebtedness. Our failure to comply with the covenants and other requirements contained in the indenture governing the notes, our revolving credit facility or our other debt instruments could cause an event of default under the relevant debt instrument. The occurrence of an event of default could trigger a default under our other debt instruments, prohibit us from accessing additional borrowings and permit the holders of the defaulted debt to declare amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be immediately due and payable. Our assets or cash flows may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, and we may be unable to refinance or restructure the payments on indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. Despite our indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which may increase the risks created by our substantial indebtedness. Because the terms of our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, some of which may be secured. If we or any of our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we and they now face may intensify. Our revolving credit agreement is secured by a majority of our North American assets. Our revolving credit agreement, as amended, is secured by a majority of our North American assets, including the capital stock of our subsidiaries and is guaranteed by Neenah Paper Company of Canada, a wholly owned subsidiary. Neenah Germany is not a borrower or guarantor with respect to the revolving credit agreement. However, we pledged 65 percent of our equity interest in Neenah Germany as security for our obligations under the revolving credit agreement. Availability under our revolving credit facility will fluctuate over time depending on the value of our inventory, receivables and various capital assets. An extended work stoppage or decline in sales volumes would result in a decrease in the value of the assets securing our credit facility. A reduction in availability under the revolving credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. We depend on our subsidiaries to generate cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, including payments on the notes. We conduct a substantial portion of our business through our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to service our debt obligations, including the notes, depend upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us, or upon loans, advances or other payments made by these entities to us. The ability of these entities to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will be subject to applicable laws and contractual restrictions contained in the instruments governing their debt, including our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes. These limitations are also subject to important exceptions and qualifications. 14 Table of Contents The ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us to make scheduled payments on our debt, including the notes, will depend upon their future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our subsidiaries do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to help us satisfy our debt obligations, including payments on the notes, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking to raise additional capital. Refinancing may not be possible, and any assets may not be able to be sold, or, if sold, we may not realize sufficient amounts from those sales. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or we may be prohibited from incurring it, if available, under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations on the notes. The amount of earnings that our operating subsidiaries are able to distribute to us as dividends, or otherwise, may not be adequate for us to service our debt obligations. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in Annual Report on Form 10-K may constitute “forward-looking” statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”), Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “PSLRA”), or in releases made by the SEC, all as may be amended from time to time. Statements contained in this annual report that are not historical facts may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the PSLRA. Any such forward-looking statements reflect our beliefs and assumptions and are based on information currently available to us. Forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These cautionary statements are being made pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and the PSLRA with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the “safe harbor” provisions of such laws. The Company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements we make are not guarantees or indicative of future performance. For additional information regarding factors that may cause our results of operations to differ materially from those presented herein, please see “Risk Factors” contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and as are detailed from time to time in other reports we file with the SEC. You can identify forward-looking statements as those that are not historical in nature, particularly those that use terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “contemplate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “potential” or “continue,” or the negative of these, or similar terms. In evaluating these forward-looking statements, you should consider the following factors, as well as others contained in our public filings from time to time, which may cause our actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement: · general economic conditions, particularly in North America and Europe; · our existing and future indebtedness; · fluctuations in global equity and fixed-income markets; · fluctuations in commodity prices, exchange rates (in particular changes in the U.S./Euro currency exchange rates) and interest rates; · the competitive environment; · the loss of current customers or the inability to obtain new customers; · our ability to control costs and implement measures designed to enhance operating efficiencies; · the cost or availability of raw materials and energy; · strikes, labor stoppages and changes in our collective bargaining agreements and relations with our employees and unions; · increases in the funding requirements for our pension and postretirement liabilities; · changes in asset valuations including write-downs of assets including fixed assets, inventory, accounts receivable or other assets for impairment or other reasons; 15 Table of Contents · unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations; · other risks that are detailed from time to time in reports we file with the SEC; and · other factors described under “Risk Factors.” You are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this information statement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 