D. Risk Factors The following risks relate principally to the industries in which we operate and our business in general. Any of the risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industries The international tanker and drybulk shipping industries have experienced drastic downturns after experiencing historically high charter rates and vessel values in early 2008, and a continued downturn in these markets may have an adverse effect on our earnings, impair the carrying value of our vessels and affect compliance with our loan covenants. The Baltic Drybulk Index, or BDI, is a U.S. Dollar daily average of charter rates that takes into account input from brokers around the world regarding fixtures for various routes, dry cargoes and various drybulk vessel sizes and is issued by the London-based Baltic Exchange (an organization providing maritime market information for the trading and settlement of physical and derivative contracts). The BDI declined from a high of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 663 in December 2008, which represents a decline of 94%, but has since modestly risen to 1,430 as of April 6, 2011. The decline in charter rates was due to various factors, including the lack of trade financing for purchases of commodities carried by sea, which resulted in a significant decline in cargo shipments, and the excess supply of iron ore in China, which resulted in falling iron ore prices and increased stockpiles in Chinese ports. The decline in charter rates in the drybulk market affected the earnings on our charters and the value of our drybulk vessels. As a result, this decline negatively affected our cash flows, liquidity and compliance with the covenants contained in our loan agreements. During 2009 and 2010, the abovementioned factors affecting the BDI partially subsided, allowing for the recovery of rates and a recovery in drybulk vessel values. The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a U.S. Dollar daily average of charter rates issued by the Baltic Exchange that takes into account input from brokers around the world regarding crude oil fixtures for various routes and tanker vessel sizes, declined from a high of 2,347 in July 2008 to a low of 453 in mid-April 2009, which represents a decline of 80%, but has since modestly risen to 891 as of April 6, 2011 . The Baltic Clean Tanker Index fell from 1,509 points as of June 19, 2008, to 345 points as of April 4, 2009, but has modestly risen to 825 points as of April 6, 2011 The dramatic decline in charter rates was due to various factors, including the significant fall in demand for crude oil and petroleum products, the consequent rising inventories of crude oil and petroleum products in the United States and in other industrialized nations and the corresponding reduction in oil refining, the dramatic fall in the price of oil in 2008, and the restrictions on crude oil production that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other non-OPEC oil producing countries have imposed in an effort to stabilize the price of oil. During 2009 and 2010, the abovementioned factors affecting the Baltic Dirty and Clean Tanker Indices partially subsided, allowing for the modest recovery of rates and a stabilization of tanker vessel values. A decline in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the charter rates in the tanker and drybulk market decline from their current levels, our future earnings may be adversely affected and we may have to record impairment adjustments to the carrying values of our fleet, and we may not be able to comply with the financial covenants in our loan agreements. 6 The international tanker and drybulk industries are both cyclical and volatile and this may lead to reductions and volatility in our charter rates when we re-charter our vessels, vessel values and our results of operations. The international tanker and drybulk industries in which we operate are cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates, vessel values and industry profitability. For both tankers and drybulk vessels, the degree of charter rate volatility among different types of vessels has varied widely. If we enter into a charter when charter rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. In addition, a decline in charter hire rates likely will cause the value of our vessels to decline. We currently employ our tankers mainly on long term bareboat charters and our drybulk carriers mainly on short to medium term time charters. However, one of our tankers has been employed in the spot market since the expiration of its time charter in November 2010, and we have chartered-in another tanker that we employ in a pool which also carries spot market exposure. As a result, our exposure to charter rate volatility in the tanker segment is limited but not minimal. We expect that our exposure to charter rate volatility in the drybulk segment will be significant in 2012, when most of our current charters will have expired. This may affect our result of operations. Changes in spot rates and time charters can not only affect the revenues we receive from operations but can also affect the value of our vessels, even if they are employed under long term time charters. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of their current time and bareboat charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the tanker and drybulk market. The factors affecting the supply and demand for our vessels are outside our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in tanker and drybulk industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for tanker and drybulk vessel capacity include: ● supply and demand for (i) refined petroleum products and crude oil for tankers and (ii) drybulk commodities for drybulk vessels; ● changes in (i) crude oil production and refining capacity and (ii) drybulk commodity production and resulting shifts in trade flows for crude oil and petroleum products and trade flows of drybulk commodities; ● the location of regional and global crude oil refining facilities and drybulk commodities markets that affect the distance commodities are to be moved by sea; ● global and regional economic and political conditions, including developments in international trade and fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production; ● environmental and other legal and regulatory developments; ● currency exchange rates; ● weather and acts of God and natural disasters, including hurricanes and typhoons; ● competition from alternative sources of energy and for other shipping companies and other modes of transportation; and 7 ● international sanctions, embargoes, import and export restrictions, nationalizations, piracy and wars. The factors that influence the supply of oceangoing vessel capacity include: ● the number of newbuilding deliveries; ● current and expected purchase orders for vessels; ● the scrapping rate of older vessels; ● vessel freight rates; ● the price of steel and vessel equipment; ● technological advances in the design and capacity of vessels ● potential conversion of vessels to alternative use; ● changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; ● port or canal congestion; ● the number of vessels that are out of service at a given time; and ● changes in global crude oil and drybulk commodity production. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our ability to obtain financing, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows and could cause the market price of our common shares to decline. Although the world economy is currently recovering from the second-worst downturn in the last 100 years, the future of this recovery still remains fragile. The effects of the downturn are still lingering as credit remains tight, demand for goods and services has not yet fully recovered and unemployment is high. The credit markets in the United States and worldwide have experienced significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity, and the United States federal government, state governments and foreign governments have implemented a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The Commission, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect further changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. A number of financial institutions have experienced financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. The uncertainty surrounding the recovery of the credit markets in the United States and the rest of the world has resulted in reduced access to credit worldwide that is especially evident in our industry. Over the last few years, certain banking institutions have been forced to record heavy losses from troubled shipping loans. These difficulties may adversely affect the financial institutions that provide our credit facilities and may impair their ability to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could have an impact on our ability to fund current and future obligations. 8 We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in certain securities markets, among other factors. Major market disruptions and adverse changes in market conditions and the regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business. The current market conditions may last longer than we anticipate. These recent and developing economic and governmental factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause the price of our common shares to further decline. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These regulations include, but are not limited to the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the U.S. Clean Air Act, U.S. Clean Water Act and the U.S. Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002, European Union Directives relating to air emissions, and regulations of the International Maritime Organization, or the IMO, including the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1975, the International Convention for the Prevention of Marine Pollution of 1973, the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974 and the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Furthermore, the 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or other events, may result in further regulation of the shipping industry, and modifications to statutory liability schemes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. 9 We are subject to international safety regulations and requirements imposed by classification societies and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the IMO's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires shipowners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. As of the date of this annual report, each of our vessels is ISM code-certified. In addition, the hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. If a vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable, which will negatively impact our revenues and results from operations. Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries and the IMO have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures may include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. In addition, although the emissions of greenhouse gases from international shipping currently are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which required adopting countries to implement national programs to reduce emissions of certain gases, a new treaty may be adopted in the future that includes restrictions on shipping emissions. Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our vessels and require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities may also be adversely affected. Adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change, including growing public concern about the environmental impact of climate change, may also adversely affect demand for our services. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other concerns relating to climate change may reduce the demand for oil and gas in the future or create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. 10 Our vessels may suffer damage due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and we may experience unexpected dry-docking costs, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Our vessels and their cargoes will be at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at dry-docking facilities is sometimes limited and not all dry-docking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable dry-docking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a dry-docking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant dry-docking facilities would decrease our earnings. Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels or we may be required to write down their carrying value, which will adversely affect our earnings. The fair market value of our vessels may increase and decrease depending on the following factors: ● general economic and market conditions affecting the international tanker and drybulk shipping industries; ● prevailing level of charter rates; ● competition from other shipping companies; ● types, sizes and ages of vessels; ● other modes of transportation; ● cost of newbuildings; ● price of steel; ● governmental or other regulations; and ● technological advances. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount in our financial statements in which case we will realize a loss. Vessel prices can fluctuate significantly, and in the case where the market value falls below the carrying amount we evaluate the asset for a potential impairment and may be required to write down the carrying amount of the vessel on our financial statements and incur a loss and a reduction in earnings, if the estimate of undiscounted cash flows, excluding interest charges, expected to be generated by the use of the asset is less than its carrying amount. See "Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Critical Accounting Policies – Impairment of vessels". 11 An over-supply of drybulk carrier and/or tanker capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing, and the number of drybulk carriers on order is near historic highs. These newbuildings were delivered in significant numbers starting at the beginning of 2007 and continuing through 2010. As of December 31, 2010, newbuilding orders had been placed for an aggregate of approximately 54% of the existing global drybulk fleet, with deliveries expected during the next four years. The market supply of tankers is affected by a number of factors such as demand for energy resources, oil and petroleum products, as well as strong overall economic growth in part of the world economy, including Asia. As of December 31, 2010, newbuilding orders have been placed for an aggregate of approximately 28% of the existing global tanker fleet with the bulk of deliveries expected during 2011 to 2014. An over-supply of drybulk carrier and/or tanker capacity may result in a reduction of charter hire rates. If such a reduction occurs, we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all upon the expiration or termination of our vessels' current charters. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We are partially dependent on spot charters and any decrease in spot charter rates in the future may adversely affect our earnings. As of the date of this report, one of our tanker vessels is operating in the spot market and another is operating in a pool, under a time charter agreement that also carries spot market exposure. We may in the future operate additional vessels in the spot market. Although spot chartering is common in the tanker industry, the spot charter market may fluctuate significantly based upon tanker and oil supply and demand. The successful operation of our vessels in the competitive spot charter market depends upon, among other things, obtaining profitable spot charters and minimizing, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo. The spot market is very volatile, and, in the past, there have been periods when spot rates have declined below the operating cost of vessels. If future spot charter rates decline, then we may be unable to operate our vessels trading in the spot market profitably, meet our obligations, including payments on indebtedness, or to pay dividends in the future. Furthermore, as charter rates for spot charters are fixed for a single voyage which may last up to several weeks, during periods in which spot charter rates are rising, we will generally experience delays in realizing the benefits from such increases. Operating results from our tankers are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our operating results. Eight of the vessels in our combined fleet are tankers. Two of our tankers currently have spot market exposure in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, therefore, charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The tanker sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of oil and petroleum products in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, our revenues from our tankers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could materially affect our results of operations. 12 Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. Given current market conditions, we seek to deploy our vessels on time and bareboat charters in a manner that will help us achieve a steady flow of earnings. As of the date of this annual report four of our drybulk vessels were contractually committed to time charters, and six of our tanker vessels and one of our drybulk vessels were contractually committed to bareboat charters. Although these period charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue as well as a portion of the revenues generated by the charterer's deployment of the vessels in the spot market or otherwise, our vessels committed to period charters may not be available for spot voyages during an upturn in the tanker or drybulk industry cycle, as the case may be, when spot voyages might be more profitable. If we cannot continue to employ our vessels on profitable time charters or trade them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow may suffer if rates achieved are not sufficient to cover respective vessel operating and financial expenses. If our vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, that could adversely affect our reputation and the market for our common stock. From time to time on charterers' instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act ("CISADA"), which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies, such as our company, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries, even if we have not violated any laws. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. World events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004 and in London on July 7, 2005 and the continuing response of the world community to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain any additional financing or, if we are able to obtain additional financing, to do so on terms unfavorable to us. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Terrorist attacks on vessels, such as the October 2002 attack on the M.V. Limburg, a very large crude carrier not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility and turmoil of the financial markets in the United States and globally. Any of these occurrences, or the perception that our vessels are potential terrorist targets, could have a material adverse impact on our revenues and costs. Acts of piracy on oceangoing vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected oceangoing vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008, 2009 and 2010, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden. Since the beginning of 2009, numerous tanker and drybulk vessels have fallen victim to piracy attacks off the coast of Somalia, including incidents deep into the Indian ocean. For example, on January 15, 2010, the M/V Samho Jewelry, a tanker vessel not affiliated with us, was seized by pirates while transporting chemicals 800 miles off the Somali coast. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as "war risk" zones, as the Gulf of Aden has been since May 2008, or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. Crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. In addition, while we believe a time charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not "on-hire" for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. In addition, we as owners are liable for such costs under any voyage charter. Although we are insured against piracy risks under our war risk insurance policy, we may experience financial losses as a result of vessel damage from pirates, increased insurance deductibles or a rise in the cost of private security service remunerations, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in respects such as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year plans, or State Plans, are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through State Plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate a significant number of the port calls made mainly by our drybulk vessels will continue to involve the loading or discharging of drybulk commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of, delay in the loading, offloading or delivery of, the contents of our vessels or the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our business. Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, operating expense for many of our shipping operations when our vessels are not under period charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. Currently, ten of our twelve vessels are under period employment whereby the fuel cost is borne by the charterer, except for periods when the vessel is off-hire. Risks Related to Our Company We are in breach of certain loan covenants contained in our loan agreements. If we are not successful in obtaining waivers and amendments with respect to covenants breached, our lenders may declare an event of default and accelerate our outstanding indebtedness under the relevant agreement, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our loan agreements require that we comply with certain financial and other covenants. As a result of the drop in our drybulk and tanker asset values we were not in compliance with covenants relating to vessel values such as asset cover ratio, adjusted net worth and net asset value covenants as of December 31, 2010. In addition, we were in breach of EBITDA and overall cash position (minimum liquidity covenants) covenants with certain banks not previously waived. A violation of these covenants constitutes an event of default under our credit facilities, which would, unless waived by our lenders, provide our lenders with the right to require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments, pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, reclassify our indebtedness as current liabilities and accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels, which impairs our ability to continue to conduct our business. As a result of these breaches, our total indebtedness of $343.7 million, which after excluding unamortized financing fees of $4.0 million amounts to $339.7 million, and financial instruments of $12.9 million are presented within current liabilities in the accompanying December 31, 2010 consolidated balance sheet. The amounts of long term debt and financial instruments that have been reclassified and presented together with current liabilities amount to $304.5 million and $8.8 million, respectively. 15 As of the date of this annual report, we have received a waiver from Emporiki bank up to June 30, 2011. In addition, on August 17, 2010, we signed a term sheet with DVB, loan documentation of which is currently in progress, and reset covenants in such a way so that as of December 31, 2010 we were not in breach of covenants with DVB. As of December 31, 2010, we were in breach of covenants with all other banks. We are currently in discussions with our banks in relation to these covenant breaches. Breach of our loan covenants, without applicable waiver, entitles our lenders to accelerate our debt. If our indebtedness is accelerated, it would be very difficult in the current financing environment for us to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and we could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on management's ability to successfully generate revenue to meet our obligations as they become due and have the continued support of our lenders. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued its opinion, similar to its opinion included in our 2008 and 2009 annual report, with an explanatory paragraph emphasizing that we have prepared our financial statements under the going concern assumption despite our covenant breaches and working capital deficit. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of our inability to continue as a going concern. However, there is a material uncertainty related to events or conditions which raises significant doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern and, therefore, we may be unable to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. Servicing current and future debt will limit funds available for other purposes and impair our ability to react to changes in our business. To finance our fleet expansion program, we incurred secured indebtedness. We must dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. As of December 31, 2010, we had total indebtedness of $343.7 million, which after excluding unamortized financing fees of $4.0 million amounts to $339.7 million, and a ratio of indebtedness to total capital of approximately 57%. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of, our indebtedness. Our substantial debt could also have other significant consequences. For example, it could: ● increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; ● require us to dedicate a substantial portion, if not all, of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; 16 ● limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; ● place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt or better access to capital; ● limit our ability to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all; and ● adversely impact our ability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the notes and the credit agreements governing the debts of our subsidiaries, which could result in an event of default under such agreements. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because most of our debt and all the debt under the credit facilities of our subsidiaries is variable rate debt. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. Our loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities, and our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us in connection with waivers or amendments to our loan agreements. Our loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us and our lenders may impose additional restrictions on us in connection with waivers or amendments to our loan agreements. These restrictions may limit our ability to: ● incur additional indebtedness; ● create liens on our assets; ● sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; ● engage in mergers or acquisitions; ● pay dividends; ● make capital expenditures or other investments; ● charter our vessels; ● change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and ● sell our vessels. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. 17 If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share. We intend to continue to grow our fleet in the future. Our growth will depend on: ● our ability to generate excess cash flow so that we can invest without jeopardizing our ability to cover current and foreseeable working capital needs (including debt service); ● our ability to raise equity and obtain required financing; ● locating and acquiring suitable vessels; ● identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; ● integrating any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; ● enhancing our customer base; and ● managing expansion. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans and we may incur significant additional expenses and losses in connection therewith. The derivative contracts we have entered into to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in higher-than-market interest rates and charges against our income. As of December 31, 2010, we have twelve interest rate swaps for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to indebtedness under our credit facilities. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the change in fair value of our interest rate swaps was an unrealized gain of $0.9 million. Our hedging strategies, however, may not always be effective and we may incur substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then-existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. 18 In the highly competitive international tanker and drybulk shipping markets, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. The operation of tanker and drybulk vessels and the transportation of cargoes shipped in these vessels, as well as the shipping industry in general, is extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker and drybulk shipping companies, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of oil and refined petroleum products and drybulk cargoes can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets than us. A limited number of financial institutions hold our cash including financial institutions located in Greece. A limited number of financial institutions, including institutions located in Greece, will hold all of our cash. Our bank accounts have been deposited from time to time with banks in Germany, United Kingdom and Greece amongst others. Of these financial institutions located in Greece, some are subsidiaries of international banks and others are Greek financial institutions. These balances are not covered by insurance in the event of default by these financial institutions. The occurrence of such a default could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and we may lose part or all of our cash that we deposit with such banks. We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We have historically derived a significant part of our revenue from a small number of charterers. In 2009, approximately 54% of our revenue was derived from three charterers. These three charterers, ST Shipping and Transport Pte Ltd, , Hanjin Shipping Co Ltd, or Hanjin, and Cosco Quingdao, or Cosco, provided 22%, 18% and 14% of our revenues in 2009, respectively. In 2010, approximately 53% of our revenue was derived from three charterers. These three charterers, Hanjin Shipping Co Ltd, Daelim H&L Co. Ltd and Cosco Quingdao, respectively provided 19%, 18% and 16% of our revenues in 2010. If one or more of these customers is unable to perform under one or more charters with us and we are not able to find a replacement charter, or if a customer exercises certain rights to terminate the charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could lose a customer or the benefits of a charter if, among other things: ● the customer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise; ● the customer terminates the charter because we fail to deliver the vessel within a fixed period of time, the vessel is lost or damaged beyond repair, there are serious deficiencies in the vessel or prolonged periods of off-hire, or if we are otherwise in default under the charter; or ● the customer terminates the charter because the vessel has been subject to seizure for more than a specified number of days. 19 If we lose a key customer, we may be unable to obtain charters on comparable terms or may become subject to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations. The charters on which we deploy six of our vessels as of the date of this report, provide for charter rates that are significantly above current market rates, particularly spot market rates that most directly reflect the current levels of the drybulk and product tanker charter markets. If it were necessary to secure substitute employment for any of these vessels due to the loss of a customer under current market conditions, such employment would be at a significantly lower charter rate, resulting in a significant reduction in revenues. The loss of any of our customers, or charters, or a decline in payments under our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the international tanker and drybulk shipping industries, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. All of our executive officers are employees of Central Mare Inc., or Central Mare which we refer to as our Fleet Manager, a related party controlled by the family of the Company's Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, and we have entered into agreements with our Fleet Manager for the provision of our President, CEO, and Director, Evangelos Pistiolis, our Chief Financial Officer and Director, Alexandros Tsirikos, our Executive Vice President, Chairman and Director, Vangelis Ikonomou and our Chief Technical Officer Demetris Souroullas. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not maintain ''key man'' life insurance on any of our officers. If labor interruptions are not resolved in a timely manner, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and available cash. Our Fleet Manager employs 26 people, all of whom are shore-based. In addition, our Fleet Manager is responsible for recruiting, mainly through a crewing agent, the senior officers and all other crew members for our vessels. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out as we expect and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and available cash. If we expand our business, we will need to improve our operations and financial systems and staff; if we cannot improve these systems or recruit suitable employees, our performance may be adversely affected. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate if we implement a plan to expand the size of our fleet, and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our performance may be adversely affected. A drop in spot charter rates may provide an incentive for some charterers to default on their charters, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. During August 2009, we announced that the bareboat charterer of the M/V Papillon (ex VOC Gallant) had notified us of its intention to pay a reduced charterhire rate of $18,000 per day for the month of August rather than $24,000 per day on a bareboat basis as is set forth in the charterparty. The dispute was resolved and the charterer has paid the full amount of charterhire as required under the charter agreements. 20 On January 11, 2010, we announced that we had received from the bareboat charterer of the M/T Ionian Wave and the M/T Tyrrhenian Wave a reduced charter hire rate of $10,000 per day rather than the $14,300 per day on a bareboat basis that is set forth in the charter agreement. Furthermore on January 26, 2011, we announced that we had received from the same charterer another decrease in the charter hire rate that currently stands at $9,092 per day. We have been examining this unilateral reduction and intend to take all necessary steps to recover the amounts owed since the said charterer is considered to be in breach of the charter. We may not be able to recover these amounts, which would result in lower-than-expected cash flows. When we enter into a time or bareboat charter, charter rates under that charter are fixed for the term of the charter. If the spot charter rates in the tanker or drybulk shipping industry, as applicable, become significantly lower than the time charter equivalent rates that some of our charterers are obligated to pay us under our existing charters, the charterers may have incentive to default under that charter or attempt to renegotiate the charter. If our charterers fail to pay their obligations, we would have to attempt to re-charter our vessels at lower charter rates, and as a result we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and financial condition, which would affect our ability to meet our loan repayment obligations in which case our lenders could choose to accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens, and we could be required to sell vessels in our fleet and our ability to continue to conduct our business would be impaired. An increase in operating costs would decrease earnings and available cash. Our vessel operating costs include the costs of crew, fuel (for spot chartered vessels), provisions, deck and engine stores, insurance and maintenance and repairs, which depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Some of these costs, primarily relating to insurance and enhanced security measures , have been increasing. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydocking repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. Increases in any of these expenses would decrease earnings and available cash. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. Our current operating fleet has an average age of approximately seven years, including our chartered-in vessel M/T Delos which is 20 years old. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions might not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, our revenue will decline at the end of a vessel's useful life, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement, we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their remaining useful lives, which we estimate to be 25 years from the date of initial delivery from the shipyard. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. 21 Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. We may grow through the acquisition of previously owned vessels. While we rigorously inspect previously owned, or secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Accordingly, we may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels prior to purchase. Any such hidden defects or problems, when detected, may be expensive to repair, and if not detected, may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. Also, when purchasing previously owned vessels, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if the vessels we buy are older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age and type of the vessel. In the case of chartered-in vessels we run the same risks. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels. We procure insurance for our fleet against those types of risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. These insurances include hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage and war risk insurance. Reasonable insurance rates can best be obtained when the size and the age/trading profile of the fleet is attractive. As a result, rates become less competitive as a fleet downsizes . In the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible as well as, limitations and exclusions which may nevertheless increase our costs or lower our revenue. We may be subject to calls because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, in amounts based on our claim records and the claim records of our fleet managers as well as the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. In addition, our protection and indemnity associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by "arresting" or "attaching" a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hired period. In addition, in jurisdictions where the "sister ship" theory of liability applies, a claimant may arrest the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. In countries with "sister ship" liability laws, claims might be asserted against us or any of our vessels for liabilities of other vessels that we own. 22 Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government of a vessel's registry could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could negatively impact our revenues should we not receive adequate compensation. Certain existing stockholders, who hold approximately 32.64% of our common stock, may have the power to exert control over us, which may limit your ability to influence our actions. As of March 1, 2011, Sovereign Holdings Inc., or Sovereign Holdings, a company that is wholly owned by our President, CEO and Director, Evangelos J. Pistiolis, and Kingdom Holdings Inc., or Kingdom Holdings, a company owned primarily by adult relatives of Mr. Pistiolis, own, directly or indirectly, approximately 14.31% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, Sphinx Investment Corp., Maryport Navigation Corp. and Mr. George Economou through Sphinx Investment Corp. and Maryport Navigation Corp. beneficially own 12.09% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. QVT Financial LP, QVT Financial GP LLC and QVT Associates GP LLC own 6.24% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Sphinx Investment Corp., Maryport Navigation Corp., QVT Financial LP, QVT Financial GP LLC and QVT Associates GP LLC are entities owned and controlled by unaffiliated third parties. Together, these existing shareholders own 32.64% of our common stock. While to our knowledge these shareholders have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of their shares of common stock, due to the number of shares of our common stock they own, they have the power to exert considerable influence over our actions. The interests of these stockholders may be different from your interests. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not begin and end, in the U.S. is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we have taken this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source income. Therefore, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a 4% U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. The imposition of this tax could have a negative effect on our business. We are likely to be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, ''passive income'' includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. Income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income" for this purpose. U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. 23 In general, income derived from the bareboat charter of a vessel should be treated as "passive income" for purposes of determining whether a foreign corporation is a PFIC, and such vessel should be treated as an asset which produces or is held for the production of "passive income." On the other hand, income derived from the time charter of a vessel should not be treated as "passive income" for such purpose, but rather will be treated as services income; likewise, a time chartered vessel should generally not be treated as an asset which produces or is held for the production of "passive income." For our 2010 taxable year, we believe that at least 50% of the average value of our assets consisted of vessels which are bareboat chartered. Therefore, we expect to be treated as a PFIC for our 2010 taxable year. We intend to take necessary steps in order to avoid being classified as a PFIC for 2011 and future taxable years, such as expanding our fleet through the purchase of non-passive income producing assets. However, there can be no assurance that such remedial measures will be effective to avoid PFIC status for 2011 or any future taxable year. Our U.S. shareholders may face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences and certain information reporting obligations as a result of us being treated as a PFIC. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under "Taxation– U.S. Federal Income Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders"), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of their common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of the common shares. See "Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Taxation – U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders" for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders as a result of our status as a PFIC. In addition, as a result of being treated as a PFIC for the 2010 taxable year, any dividends paid by us during 2010 and 2011 will not be eligible to be treated as "qualified dividend income," which would otherwise be eligible for preferential tax rates in the hands of non-corporate U.S. shareholders. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. Dollars but incur certain expenses in currencies other than U.S. Dollars, mainly Euros. During 2010, approximately 18% of our expenses were in Euros and approximately 2% were in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar or Euro. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular, the Euro. Should the Euro appreciate relative to the U.S. Dollar in future periods, our expenses will increase in U.S. Dollar terms, thereby decreasing our net income. We have not hedged these risks and therefore our operating results could suffer as a result. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares Our share price may continue to be highly volatile, which could lead to a loss of all or part of a shareholder's investment. 24 The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely since our common shares began trading in July of 2004 on the Nasdaq National Market, now the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Over the last few years, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. During 2010, the closing price of our common shares experienced a high of $1.28 on April 14, 2010 and a low of $0.64 on September 29, 2010. On August 12, 2010 we received notification from the Nasdaq Global Select Market that we were not in compliance with its minimum bid price requirements. We subsequently regained compliance. On March 28, 2011 we received a notification from Nasdaq stating that our common stock was again in violation of its minimum bid price requirements. The applicable grace period to regain compliance is 180 calendar days expiring September 26, 2011. Such notification may require us to carry out the authorized reverse stock split or take other measures to increase our stock price, but we cannot guarantee that any measure will allow us to regain compliance with Nasdaq's listing requirements. In addition, because the market price of our common shares has dropped below $5.00 per share, brokers generally prohibit shareholders from using such shares as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts. This inability to continue to use our common shares as collateral may lead to sales of such shares creating downward pressure on and increased volatility in the market price of our common shares. Furthermore, if the volatility in the market continues or worsens, it could have a further adverse affect on the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common shares is due to a variety of factors, including: · fluctuations in interest rates; · fluctuations in the availability or the price of oil; · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; · announcements by us or our competitors; · changes in our relationships with customers or suppliers; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; · changes in United States or foreign tax laws; · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results from period to period; · shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; · market conditions in the shipping industry and the general state of the securities markets; · mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; · changes in government regulation; · a general or industry-specific decline in the demand for, and price of, shares of our common stock resulting from capital market conditions independent of our operating performance; · the loss of any of our key management personnel; and · our failure to successfully implement our business plan. 25 There may not be a continuing public market for you to resell our common shares. Our common shares and warrants began trading in July of 2004 on the Nasdaq National Market, and our common shares currently trade on the Nasdaq Global Select Market; however, an active and liquid public market for our common shares may not continue and you may not be able to sell your common shares in the future at the price that you paid for them or at all. If the price of our common shares remains below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days and we are unable to comply with the minimum bid price requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market, including any applicable cure period, we may be involuntarily delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market. As noted above, on August 12, 2010 we received notification from the Nasdaq Global Select Market that our common stock price was in violation of its minimum bid price requirements. In response, we obtained shareholder authorization at our annual general meeting held on September 30, 2010 to conduct a reverse stock split at a ratio of not less than one-for-two and not more than one-for-ten, if necessary to regain compliance. On January 10, 2011 an increase in the price per share of our common stock resulted in our complying with the Nasdaq Global Select Market listing requirements. We therefore did not carry out the authorized reverse stock split. On March 28, 2011 we received a notification from Nasdaq stating that our common stock was again in violation of its minimum bid price requirements. The applicable grace period to regain compliance is 180 calendar days expiring September 26, 2011. Such notification may require us to carry out the authorized reverse stock split or take other measures to increase our stock price, but we cannot guarantee that any measure will allow us to regain compliance with Nasdaq's listing requirements. Shareholders may experience significant dilution as a result of future equity offerings or issuance if shares are sold at prices significantly below the price at which shareholders invested. Our existing shareholders may experience significant dilution if we issue shares in the future at prices significantly below the price at which previous shareholders invested. Future issuances or sales, or the potential for future issuances or sales, of our common shares, or the conversion of convertible debt into our common shares, may cause the trading price of our securities to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. We have issued a significant number of our common shares and convertible debt that may be converted into common shares and we anticipate that we will continue to do so in the future. The additional shares issued and to be issued in the future upon the conversion of debt could cause the market price of our common shares to decline, and could have an adverse effect on our earnings per share if and when we become profitable. In addition, future sales of our common shares or other securities in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common shares to decline, and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. Lack of volume in our stock may affect investors' ability to sell their shares. Our common shares have been experiencing low daily trading volumes in the market. As a result, an investor may be unable to sell all of such investor's shares in the desired time period, or may only be able to sell such shares at a significant discount to the previous closing price. 26 We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law and as a result, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections under Marshall Islands law than under a typical jurisdiction in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. It may not be possible for investors to serve process on or enforce U.S. judgments against us. We and all of our subsidiaries are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the U.S. In addition, most of our directors and officers are non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries or our directors and officers or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, amalgamation or acquisition, which could reduce the market price of our common shares. Several provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our Board of Directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. 27 These provisions include: Ÿ authorizing our Board of Directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock without shareholder approval; Ÿ providing for a classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms; Ÿ prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; Ÿ authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote for the directors; Ÿ prohibiting shareholder action by written consent unless the written consent is signed by all shareholders entitled to vote on the action; Ÿ limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; and Ÿ establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, we have entered into a Stockholders Rights Agreement that will make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of our Board of Directors and principal shareholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may reduce the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. Risks related to our relationship with our Fleet Manager and its affiliates We are dependent on our Fleet Manager to perform the day-to-day management of our fleet. Our executive management team consists of our President and CEO Evangelos Pistiolis, our Chief Financial Officer, Alexandros Tsirikos, our Executive Vice President, Vangelis Ikonomou and our Chief Technical Officer, Demetris Souroullas. We subcontract the day-to-day vessel management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair to our Fleet Manager. Our Fleet Manager is a related party controlled by the family of the Company's CEO, we are dependent on our Fleet Manager for the technical and commercial operation of our fleet and the loss of our Fleet Manager's services or failure to perform obligations to us could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. If our Fleet Manager suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships it may harm our ability to: ● continue to operate our vessels and service our customers; ● renew existing charters upon their expiration; ● obtain new charters; ● obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; 28 ● obtain insurance on commercially acceptable terms; ● maintain satisfactory relationships with our customers and suppliers; and ● successfully execute our growth strategy. Our Fleet Manager is a privately held company and there may be limited or no publicly available information about it. Our Fleet Manager is a privately held company. The ability of our Fleet Manager to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair our Fleet Manager's financial strength, and there may be limited publicly available information about its financial strength. As a result, an investor in our common shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting our Fleet Manager, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Our Fleet Manager may have conflicts of interest between us and its other clients. We have subcontracted the day-to-day technical and commercial management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance, supply provisioning and repair to our Fleet Manager. Our contracts with our Fleet Manager have an initial term of five years. Our Fleet Manager will provide similar services for vessels owned by other shipping companies, and it may provide similar services to companies with which our Fleet Manager is affiliated. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between our Fleet Manager's performance of its obligations to us, on the one hand, and our Fleet Manager's performance of its obligations to its other clients, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the crewing, supply provisioning and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus vessels owned by other clients of our Fleet Manager. In particular, our Fleet Manager may give preferential treatment to vessels owned by other clients whose arrangements provide for greater economic benefit to our Fleet Manager. These conflicts of interest may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 29 