Risk Factors” below, the trends and uncertainties discussed in “Trends and Uncertainties” under Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below, and the competition we face in our different business segments described under “Competition” below. Business Strategy Our strategy is to continue building a geographically balanced portfolio of geothermal and recovered energy assets, and to continue to be a leading manufacturer and provider of products and services related to renewable energy. We intend to implement this strategy through: • Development and Construction of New Geothermal Power Plants — continuously seeking out commercially exploitable geothermal resources, developing and constructing new geothermal power plants and entering into long-term PPAs providing stable cash flows in jurisdictions where the regulatory, tax and business environments encourage or provide incentives for such development and which meet our investment criteria; • Development and Construction of Recovered Energy Power Plants — establishing a first-to-market leadership position in recovered energy power plants in North America and building on that experience to expand into other markets worldwide; • Acquisition of New Assets — acquiring from third parties additional geothermal and other renewable assets that meet our investment criteria; 24 Table of Contents • Manufacturing and Providing Products and Service Related to Renewable Energy — designing, manufacturing and contracting power plants for our own use and selling to third parties power units and other generation equipment for geothermal and recovered energy-based electricity generation; • Increasing Output from Our Existing Power Plants — increasing output from our existing geothermal power plants by adding additional generating capacity, upgrading plant technology, and improving geothermal reservoir operations, including improving methods of heat source supply and delivery; and • Technological Expertise — investing in research and development of renewable energy technologies and leveraging our technological expertise to continuously improve power plant components, reduce operations and maintenance costs, develop competitive and environmentally friendly products for electricity generation and target new service opportunities. Recent Developments The most significant recent developments in our company and business are described below. • On January 28, 2013, we announced that our wholly owned subsidiary, Ormat Nevada, and JPM entered into a tax equity partnership transaction involving certain geothermal power plants in California and Nevada. As part of the transaction, Ormat Nevada transferred the plants into a new subsidiary, ORTP, and sold an interest in ORTP to JPM. In connection with the closing, JPM paid to Ormat Nevada approximately $35.7 million and will make additional payments to ORTP based on the value of PTCs generated by the portfolio over time that are expected to be made until December 31, 2016 and add up to approximately $8.7 million. See detailed description of the transaction under Item 7 — “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below. • On January 23, 2013, we announced that we will record an impairment charge to the North Brawley power plant located in Imperial County, California. We recorded an impairment charge to the North Brawley power plant in the fourth quarter of 2012, in an amount of $229.1 million. The North Brawley power plant was placed in service under its power purchase agreement with Southern California Edison in 2010 and since then has been operating at capacities between 20 MW and 33 MW. Due to recent developments, detailed under “Description of Our Power Plants” below, we have decided to operate the plant at the current capacity level of approximately 27 MW and refrain from additional capital investment to expand the capacity. • In November 2012, we entered into an agreement with Geotermica Platanares to acquire a late stage development geothermal project in Honduras. The project consists of the rights to a field where exploration work has been conducted in the past and a PPA for up to 35 MW with ENEE, the national utility of Honduras. Upon the fulfillment of certain conditions and the closing of the transaction, we will become the owner of all the project’s assets, including wells, land, the PPA and the necessary permits to develop a geothermal project. Once the well field is fully appraised and the power plant is constructed, we will hold the assets under a BOT structure for approximately 15 years. • In November 2012, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, OrPower 4, met the distribution requirements under a finance agreement signed in August 2012 with OPIC, an agency of the United States Governments, for limited-recourse project financing totaling up to $310 million for the Olkaria III geothermal power complex located in Naivasha, Kenya. The OPIC financing is described in detail under Item 7 — “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below. • In 2012, we entered into two new PPAs with PG&E under the RAM program in California (discussed below in Item 7 — “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the heading “Trends and Uncertainties”) to replace the existing SO#4 PPAs: • We signed a 20-year PPA that was approved by the CPUC, for the sale of up to 14 MW of energy to be produced from the G3 power plant in the Mammoth complex in California. Subject to final agreement with the current off-taker, Southern California Edison, we expect to start selling the electricity under the new PPA in April 2013. 25 Table of Contents • We signed a 20-year PPA for the sale of up to 7.5 MW of energy to be produced from the G1 power plant in the Mammoth complex in California. The PPA is subject to the approval of the CPUC and to final agreement with Southern California Edison. We expect to start selling the electricity under the new PPA at the end of 2013. • Since April 2012, we have entered into several derivatives transactions to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in the price of natural gas and oil under our PPAs with Southern California Edison and under the 25 MW PPA for the Puna complex. These transactions have not been designated as hedge transactions and are marked to market with the corresponding gains or losses recognized within electricity revenues. • In October 2012, we entered into NGI swap contracts for settlement effective from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2013. The swap contracts have monthly settlements whereby the difference between the NGI and fixed price of $4.00 per MMbtu will be settled on a cash basis. Under the terms of these contracts, we will make floating rate payments to the bank and receive fixed rate payments from the bank on each settlement date. These swap contracts fix the energy rates under the SO#4 PPAs. The capacity payments under these PPAs remain fixed. • In September 2012, we entered into European put transactions with two banks for settlement effective from January 1, 2013 until December 31, 2013, pursuant to which we purchased NYMEX Heating Oil and ICE Brent put options. We entered into these transactions because both options had a high correlation with the avoided costs that HELCO uses to calculate the energy rate for the 25 MW PPA for the Puna complex. Under these transactions, we will receive on each settlement date the difference between the strike price and the respective monthly average market price of the relevant commodity. If the strike price is lower than the monthly average market price, no payment will be made. These transactions ensure a minimum on-peak energy rate and the capacity payments under these PPAs remain fixed. • In July 2012, we entered into a European put transaction with a bank for settlement effective from August 1, 2012, pursuant to which we purchased a natural gas put option for 0.7 million MMbtus that settled against NGI on December 31, 2012. We entered into this transaction in order to reduce our exposure to NGI below $3.19 per MMbtu under our SO#4 PPAs with Southern California Edison. The transaction was settled on December 31, 2012. • In May 2012, we entered into a European put transaction with a bank for settlement effective from July 1, 2012, pursuant to which we purchased a natural gas put option for 4.4 million MMbtus that settled against NGI on December 31, 2012. We entered into this transaction in order to reduce our exposure to NGI below $3.08 per MMbtu under our California SO#4 PPAs with Southern California Edison. The transaction was settled on December 31, 2012. • In April 2012, we entered into a NYMEX Heating Oil swap contract (85%) and an ICE Brent swap contract (15%) with a bank, each of which is effective from May 1, 2012 until March 31, 2013. We entered into these contracts because both swaps had a high correlation with the avoided costs that HELCO uses to calculate the energy rate for the 25 MW PPA for the Puna complex. Fuel prices in April 2012 were at historically high levels and we wanted to protect ourselves from a decrease in prices over the next twelve months. The contracts did not have up-front costs. Under the terms of these contracts, we will make floating rate payments to the bank and receive fixed rate payments from the bank on each settlement date. The swap contracts have monthly settlements whereby the difference between the fixed price and the monthly average price will be settled on a cash basis. • In the second and third quarters of 2012, we received approximately $119.2 million in cash grants from the U.S. Treasury under Section 1603 of the ARRA for specified energy property in lieu of tax credits relating to the enhancement of our Puna geothermal complex, and to our Jersey Valley, Tuscarora and McGinness Hills geothermal power plants. • In August 2012, NV Energy approved the commercial operation date of our 33 MW McGinness Hills power plant in Nevada and the full energy price under the PPA has been paid retroactive to July 1, 2012. 26 Table of Contents • In July 2012, our wholly owned subsidiary, Ormat Nevada, entered into a $61.4 million EPC contract with Enel Green Power. Under the terms of the EPC contract, we will provide two air-cooled Ormat Energy Converters at Enel Green Power’s Cove Fort geothermal power plant project in southern Utah. Previously in April 2012, we entered into an interim agreement in the amount of $9.1 million to ensure timely completion of the project. • In May 2012, NV Energy approved the commercial operation date of our 18 MW Tuscarora power plant in Nevada and the full energy price under the PPA has been paid retroactive to January 1, 2012. • In May 2012, Bronicki Investments Ltd. (Bronicki Investments), a shareholder of Ormat Industries, completed the sale of part of its interest in Ormat Industries to FIMI ENRG Limited Partnership, a newly formed Israeli partnership, and FIMI ENRG, L.P., a newly formed Delaware partnership, both controlled by FIMI Opportunity IV (collectively, FIMI), whereby Bronicki Investments sold to FIMI approximately11.7% of the issued and outstanding shares of Ormat Industries. Following consummation of the transaction, each of Bronicki Investments and FIMI held 22.499% of the issued and outstanding shares of Ormat Industries, and the parties collectively owned 44.999% of the issued and outstanding shares of Ormat Industries. In addition, effective May 22, 2012, Gillon Beck, a senior partner in FIMI, was appointed as the Chairman of our Board of Directors; Ami Boehm, David Granot and Robert E. Joyal were appointed to our Board; and Lucien Y. Bronicki (our former Chairman), Roger W. Gale and David Wagener (former members of our Board) resigned from their respective positions on our Board of Directors. Operations of our Electricity Segment How We Own Our Power Plants. We customarily establish a separate subsidiary to own interests in each power plant. Our purpose in establishing a separate subsidiary for each plant is to ensure that the plant, and the revenues generated by it, will be the only source for repaying indebtedness, if any, incurred to finance the construction or the acquisition (or to refinance the acquisition) of the relevant plant. If we do not own all of the interest in a power plant, we enter into a shareholders agreement or a partnership agreement that governs the management of the specific subsidiary and our relationship with our partner in connection with the specific power plant. Our ability to transfer or sell our interest in certain power plants may be restricted by certain purchase options or rights of first refusal in favor of our power plant partners or the power plant’s power purchasers and/or certain change of control and assignment restrictions in the underlying power plant and financing documents. All of our domestic geothermal and REG power plants, with the exception of the Puna complex, which is an Exempt Wholesale Generator, are Qualifying Facilities under the PURPA, and are eligible for regulatory exemptions from most provisions of the FPA and certain state laws and regulations. How We Explore and Evaluate Geothermal Resources. Since 2006, we have expanded our exploration activities, particularly in the U.S. and recently also internationally. These activities generally involve: • Identifying and evaluating potential geothermal resources using information available to us from public and private resources as described under “Initial Evaluation” below. • Acquisition of land rights to any geothermal resources our initial evaluation indicates could potentially support a commercially viable power plant, taking into account various factors described under “Land Acquisition” below. • Conducting geophysical and geochemical surveys on some or all of the sites acquired, as described under “Surveys” below. • Obtaining permits to conduct exploratory drilling, as described under “Environmental Permits” below. • Drilling one or more exploratory wells on some or all of the sites to confirm and/or define the geothermal resource where indicated by our surveys and creating access roads to drilling locations and related activities, as described under “Exploratory Drilling” below. 27 Table of Contents • Drilling a full-size well (as described below) if our exploratory drilling indicates the geothermal resource can support a commercially viable power plant taking into account various factors described below under “Exploratory Drilling”. Drilling a full-size well is the point at which we usually consider a site moves from exploration to construction or development. It normally takes us two to three years from the time we start active exploration of a particular geothermal resource to the time we have an operating production well, assuming we conclude the resource is commercially viable and determine to pursue its development. Initial Evaluation. As part of our initial evaluation, we generally adhere to the following process, although our process can vary from site to site depending on the particular circumstances involved: • We evaluate historic, geologic and geothermal information available from public and private databases. • For some sites, we may obtain and evaluate additional information from other industry participants, such as where oil or gas wells may have been drilled on or near a site. • We generally create a digital, spatial geographic information systems database containing all pertinent information, including thermal water temperature gradients derived from historic drilling, geologic mapping information (e.g., formations, structure and topography), and any available archival information about the geophysical properties of the potential resource. • We assess other relevant information, such as infrastructure (e.g., roads and electric transmission lines), natural features (e.g., springs and lakes), and man-made features (e.g., old mines and wells). Our initial evaluation is usually conducted by our own staff, although we might engage outside service providers for some tasks from time to time. The costs associated with an initial evaluation vary from site to site, based on various factors, including the acreage involved and the costs, if any, of obtaining information from private databases or other sources. On average, our expenses for an initial evaluation of a site range from approximately $20,000 to $100,000. If we conclude, based on the information considered in the initial evaluation, that the geothermal resource can support a commercially viable power plant, taking into account various factors described below, we proceed to land rights acquisition. Land Acquisition. For domestic power plants, we either lease or own the sites on which our power plants are located. For our foreign power plants, our lease rights for the plant site are generally contained in the terms of a concession agreement or other contract with the host government or an agency thereof. In certain cases, we also enter into one or more geothermal resource leases (or subleases) or a concession or other agreement granting us the exclusive right to extract geothermal resources from specified areas of land, with the owners (or sublessors) of such land. In some cases we obtain first the exploration license and once certain investment requirements are met, we can obtain the exploitation rights. This usually gives us the right to explore, develop, operate, and maintain the geothermal field, including, among other things, the right to drill wells (and if there are existing wells in the area, to alter them) and build pipelines for transmitting geothermal fluid. In certain cases, the holder of rights in the geothermal resource is a governmental entity and in other cases a private entity. Usually the duration of the lease (or sublease) and concession agreement corresponds to the duration of the relevant PPA, if any. In certain other cases, we own the land where the geothermal resource is located, in which case there are no restrictions on its utilization. Leasehold interests in federal land in the United States are regulated by the BLM and the Minerals Management Service. These agencies have rules governing the geothermal leasing process as discussed below under “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. For most of our current exploration sites in the U.S., we acquire rights to use geothermal resource through land leases with the BLM, with various states, or through private leases. Under these leases, we typically pay an up-front non-refundable bonus payment, which is a component of the competitive lease process. In addition, we undertake to pay nominal, fixed annual rent payments for the period from the commencement of the lease 28 Table of Contents through the completion of construction. Upon the commencement of power generation, we begin to pay to the lessors long-term royalty payments based on the use of the geothermal resources as defined in the respective agreements. These payments are contingent on the power plant’s revenues. A summary of our typical lease terms is provided below under “Description of our Leases and Lands”. The up-front bonus and royalty payments vary from site to site and are based, among other things, on current market conditions. Surveys. Following the acquisition of land rights for a potential geothermal resource, we conduct surface water analyses and soil surveys to determine proximity to possible heat flow anomalies and up-flow/permeable zones and augment our digital database with the results of those analyses. We then initiate a suite of geophysical surveys (e.g., gravity, magnetics, resistivity, magnetotellurics, and spectral surveys) to assess surface and sub-surface structure (e.g., faults and fractures) and develop a roadmap of fluid-flow conduits and overall permeability. All pertinent geophysical data are then used to create three-dimensional geothermal reservoir models that are used to identify drill locations. We make a further determination of the commercial viability of the geothermal resource based on the results of this process, particularly the results of the geochemical and geophysical surveys. If the results from the geochemical and geophysical surveys are poor (i.e., low derived resource temperatures or poor permeability), we will re-evaluate the commercial viability of the geothermal resource and may not proceed to exploratory drilling. Exploratory Drilling. If we proceed to exploratory drilling, we generally will use outside contractors to create access roads to drilling sites. In the last two years we concentrated efforts to reduce exploration costs, and therefore, after obtaining drilling permits, we generally drill temperature gradient holes and/or core holes that are lower cost than slim holes (used in the past) using either our own drilling equipment or outside contractors. If the core hole is “cold” or does not support the assumed permeability, it may be capped and the area reclaimed if we conclude that the geothermal resource will not support a commercially viable power plant. If the obtained data supports a conclusion that the geothermal resource can support a commercially viable power plant, it will be used as an observation well to monitor and define the geothermal resource. However, to reduce construction risk we may also decide to drill a full-size well. The costs we incur for exploratory drilling vary from site to site based on various factors, including the accessibility of the drill site, the geology of the site, and the depth of the resource, among other things. However, on average, exploration drilling costs, excluding drilling of a full-size well, are approximately $3.0 million for each site. At various points during our exploration activities, we re-assess whether the geothermal resource involved will support a commercially viable power plant based on information available at that time. Among other things, we consider the following factors: • New information obtained concerning the geothermal resource as our exploration activities proceed, and particularly the expected MW capacity power plant the resource can be expected to support. • Current and expected market conditions and rates for contracted and merchant electric power in the market(s) to be serviced. • Anticipated costs associated with further exploration activities. • Anticipated costs for design and construction of a power plant at the site. • Anticipated costs for operation of a power plant at the site, particularly taking into account the ability to share certain types of costs (such as control rooms) with one or more other power plants that are, or are expected to be, operating near the site. If we conclude that the geothermal resource involved will support a commercially viable power plant, we proceed to constructing a power plant at the site. 29 Table of Contents How We Construct Our Power Plants. The principal phases involved in constructing one of our geothermal power plants are as follows: • Drilling production wells. • Designing the well field, power plant, equipment, controls, and transmission facilities. • Obtaining any required permits. • Manufacturing (or in the case of equipment we do not manufacture ourselves, purchasing) the equipment required for the power plant. • Assembling and constructing the well field, power plant, transmission facilities, and related facilities. It generally takes approximately two years from the time we drill a production well, until the power plant becomes operational. Drilling Production Wells. We consider completing the drilling of first production well as the beginning of our construction phase for a power plant. However, it is not always sufficient for a full release for construction. The number of production wells varies from plant to plant depending, among other things, on the geothermal resource, the projected capacity of the power plant, the power generation equipment to be used and the way geothermal fluids will be re-injected to maintain the geothermal resource and surface conditions. The production wells are normally drilled by our own drilling equipment although in some cases we use outside contractors. The cost for each production well varies depending, among other things, on the depth and size of the well and market conditions affecting the supply and demand for drilling equipment, labor and operators. Our average costs for each production well is approximately $4.0 million. Design. We use our own employees to design the well field and the power plant, including equipment that we manufacture and that will be needed for the power plant. The designs vary based on various factors, including local laws, required permits, the geothermal resource, the expected capacity of the power plant and the way geothermal fluids will be re-injected to maintain the geothermal resource and surface conditions. Permits. We use our own employees and outside consultants to obtain any required permits and licenses for our power plants that are not already covered by the terms of our site leases. The permits and licenses required vary from site to site, and are described below under “Environmental Permits”. Manufacturing. Generally, we manufacture most of the power generating unit equipment we use at our power plants. Multiple sources of supply are generally available for all other equipment we do not manufacture. Construction. We use our own employees to manage the construction work. For site grading, civil, mechanical, and electrical work we use subcontractors. During the year ended December 31, 2012 we focused, in the Electricity Segment, on the construction of the McGinness Hills power plant, and the Wild Rose and Olkaria III Plant 2 projects in order to meet the respective completion deadlines. The uncertainty around future federal support and the temporary weakness in the PPA market in the western United States reduced the number of our projects that were moved to construction in 2012. During the year ended December 31, 2011, one site (Olkaria III Plant 2) moved to construction, and during the year ended December 31, 2010, two sites (CD4 at the Mammoth complex and Wild Rose) moved to construction. We discontinued exploration activities at five sites in Nevada during the year ended December 31, 2012 and at one site in Nevada during the year ended December 31, 2010. Those sites were Leach Hot springs, Hyder Hot springs, Seven Devil, Smith Creek and Walker River in 2012 and Gabbs Valley in 2010. After conducting exploratory drilling in those sites, we concluded that the geothermal resource would not support commercial operations at this time. Costs associated with exploration activities at these sites were expensed accordingly. No exploration activities were discontinued in 2011 (see “Write-off of Unsuccessful Exploration Activities” under Item 7 — “Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”). 30 Table of Contents Five new sites were added to our exploration and development activities in the year ended December 31, 2012, compared with thirteen sites in the year ended December 31, 2011 and with seven sites in the year ended December 31, 2010. How We Operate and Maintain Our Power Plants. In the U.S. we usually employ our subsidiary, Ormat Nevada, to act as operator of our power plants pursuant to the terms of an operation and maintenance agreement. Operation and maintenance of our foreign projects are generally provided by our subsidiary that owns the relevant project. Our operations and maintenance practices are designed to minimize operating costs without compromising safety or environmental standards while maximizing plant flexibility and maintaining high reliability. Our operations and maintenance practices for geothermal power plants seek to preserve the sustainable characteristics of the geothermal resources we use to produce electricity and maintain steady-state operations within the constraints of those resources reflected in our relevant geologic and hydrologic studies. Our approach to plant management emphasizes the operational autonomy of our individual plant or complex managers and staff to identify and resolve operations and maintenance issues at their respective power plants; however each power plant or complex draws upon our available collective resources and experience, and that of our subsidiaries. We have organized our operations such that inventories, maintenance, backup, and other operational functions are pooled within each power plant complex and provided by one operation and maintenance provider. This approach enables us to realize cost savings and enhances our ability to meet our power plant availability goals. Safety is a key area of concern to us. We believe that the most efficient and profitable performance of our power plants can only be accomplished within a safe working environment for our employees. Our compensation and incentive program includes safety as a factor in evaluating our employees, and we have a well-developed reporting system to track safety and environmental incidents, if any, at our power plants. How We Sell Electricity. In the U.S., the purchasers of power from our power plants are typically investor-owned electric utility companies. Outside of the United States, the purchaser is either a state-owned utility or a privately-owned entity and we typically operate our facilities pursuant to rights granted to us by a governmental agency pursuant to a concession agreement. In each case, we enter into long-term contracts (typically called PPAs) for the sale of electricity or the conversion of geothermal resources into electricity. Although a power plant’s revenues under a PPA previously generally consisted of two payments — energy payments and capacity payments, our recent PPAs provide for energy payments only. Energy payments are normally based on a power plant’s electrical output actually delivered to the purchaser measured in kilowatt hours, with payment rates either fixed or indexed to the power purchaser’s “avoided” power costs (i.e., the costs the power purchaser would have incurred itself had it produced the power it is purchasing from third parties) or rates that escalate at a predetermined percentage each year. Capacity payments are normally calculated based on the generating capacity or the declared capacity of a power plant available for delivery to the purchaser, regardless of the amount of electrical output actually produced or delivered. In addition, most of our domestic power plants located in California are eligible for capacity bonus payments under the respective PPAs upon reaching certain levels of generation. How We Finance Our Power Plants. Historically we have funded our power plants with a combination of non-recourse or limited recourse debt, lease financing, parent company loans, and internally generated cash, which includes funds from operation, as well as proceeds from loans under corporate credit facilities, sale of securities, and other sources of liquidity. Such leveraged financing permits the development of power plants with a limited amount of equity contributions, but also increases the risk that a reduction in revenues could adversely affect a particular power plant’s ability to meet its debt obligations. Leveraged financing also means that distributions of dividends or other distributions by plant subsidiaries to us are contingent on compliance with financial and other covenants contained in the financing documents. Non-recourse debt or lease financing refers to debt or lease arrangements involving debt repayments or lease payments that are made solely from the power plant’s revenues (rather than our revenues or revenues of any other power plant) and generally are secured by the power plant’s physical assets, major contracts and 31 Table of Contents agreements, cash accounts and, in many cases, our ownership interest in our affiliate that owns that power plant. These forms of financing are referred to as “project financing”. Project financing transactions generally are structured so that all revenues of a power plant are deposited directly with a bank or other financial institution acting as escrow or security deposit agent. These funds are then payable in a specified order of priority set forth in the financing documents to ensure that, to the extent available, they are used to first pay operating expenses, senior debt service (including lease payments) and taxes, and to fund reserve accounts. Thereafter, subject to satisfying debt service coverage ratios and certain other conditions, available funds may be disbursed for management fees or dividends or, where there are subordinated lenders, to the payment of subordinated debt service. In the event of a foreclosure after a default, our affiliate that owns the power plant would only retain an interest in the assets, if any, remaining after all debts and obligations have been paid in full. In addition, incurrence of debt by a power plant may reduce the liquidity of our equity interest in that power plant because the interest is typically subject both to a pledge in favor of the power plant’s lenders securing the power plant’s debt and to transfer and change of control restrictions set forth in the relevant financing agreements. Limited recourse debt refers to project financing as described above with the addition of our agreement to undertake limited financial support for our affiliate that owns the power plant in the form of certain limited obligations and contingent liabilities. These obligations and contingent liabilities may take the form of guarantees of certain specified obligations, indemnities, capital infusions and agreements to pay certain debt service deficiencies. To the extent we become liable under such guarantees and other agreements in respect of a particular power plant, distributions received by us from other power plants and other sources of cash available to us may be required to be used to satisfy these obligations. To the extent of these limited recourse obligations, creditors of a project financing of a particular power plant may have direct recourse to us. We have also used financing structures to monetize PTCs and other favorable tax benefits derived from the financed power plants and an operating lease arrangement for one of our power plants. How We Mitigate International Political Risk. We generally purchase insurance policies to cover our exposure to certain political risks involved in operating in developing countries, as described below under “Insurance”. To date, our political risk insurance contracts are with the Multilateral Investment Guaranty Agency (MIGA), a member of the World Bank Group, and Zurich Re, a private insurance and re-insurance company. Such insurance policies generally cover, subject to the limitations and restrictions contained therein, 80-90% of our revenue loss resulting from a specified governmental act such as confiscation, expropriation, riots, the inability to convert local currency into hard currency, and, in certain cases, the breach of agreements. We have obtained such insurance for all of our foreign power plants in operation. Description of Our Leases and Lands We have domestic leases on approximately 403,400 acres of federal, state, and private land in Alaska, California, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon and Utah. The approximate breakdown between federal, state, private leases and owned land is as follows: • 76% are leases with the U.S. government, acting through the BLM; • 13% are leases with private landowners and/or leaseholders; • 9% are leases with various states, none of which is currently material; and • 2% are owned by us. Each of the leases within each of the categories has standard terms and requirements, as summarized below. Internationally, our land position includes approximately 366,300 acres, most of which are geothermal exploration licenses in six prospects in Chile. 32 Table of Contents Bureau of Land Management (BLM) Geothermal Leases Certain of our domestic project subsidiaries have entered into geothermal resources leases with the U.S. government, pursuant to which they have obtained the right to conduct their geothermal development and operations on federally-owned land. These leases are made pursuant to the Geothermal Steam Act and the lessor under such leases is the U.S. government, acting through the BLM. BLM geothermal leases grant the geothermal lessee the right and privilege to drill for, extract, produce, remove, utilize, sell, and dispose of geothermal resources on certain lands, together with the right to build and maintain necessary improvements thereon. The actual ownership of the geothermal resources and other minerals beneath the land is retained in the federal mineral estate. The geothermal lease does not grant to the geothermal lessee the exclusive right to develop the lands, although the geothermal lessee does hold the exclusive right to develop geothermal resources within the lands. The geothermal lessee does not have the right to develop minerals unassociated with geothermal production and cannot prohibit others from developing the minerals present in the lands. The BLM may grant multiple leases for the same lands and, when this occurs, each lessee is under a duty to not unreasonably interfere with the development rights of the other. Because BLM leases do not grant to the geothermal lessee the exclusive right to use the surface of the land, BLM may grant rights to others for activities that do not unreasonably interfere with the geothermal lessee’s uses of the same land; such other activities may include recreational use, off-road vehicles, and/or wind or solar energy developments. Certain BLM leases issued before August 8, 2005 include covenants that require the projects to conduct their operations under the lease in a workmanlike manner and in accordance with all applicable laws and BLM directives and to take all mitigating actions required by the BLM to protect the surface of and the environment surrounding the land. Additionally, certain leases contain additional requirements, some of which concern the mitigation or avoidance of disturbance of any antiquities, cultural values or threatened or endangered plants or animals, the payment of royalties for timber, and the imposition of certain restrictions on residential development on the leased land. BLM leases entered into after August 8, 2005 require the geothermal lessee to conduct operations in a manner that minimizes impacts to the land, air, water, to cultural, biological, visual, and other resources, and to other land uses or users. The BLM may require the geothermal lessee to perform special studies or inventories under guidelines prepared by the BLM. The BLM reserves the right to continue existing leases and to authorize future uses upon or in the leased lands, including the approval of easements or rights-of-way. Prior to disturbing the surface of the leased lands, the geothermal lessee must contact the BLM to be apprised of procedures to be followed and modifications or reclamation measures that may be necessary. Subject to BLM approval, geothermal lessees may enter into unit agreements to cooperatively develop a geothermal resource. The BLM reserves the right to specify rates of development and to require the geothermal lessee to commit to a communalization or unitization agreement if a common geothermal resource is at risk of being overdeveloped. Typical BLM leases issued to geothermal lessees before August 8, 2005 have a primary term of ten years and will renew so long as geothermal resources are being produced or utilized in commercial quantities, but cannot exceed a period of forty years after the end of the primary term. If at the end of the forty-year period geothermal steam is still being produced or utilized in commercial quantities and the lands are not needed for other purposes, the geothermal lessee will have a preferential right to renew the lease for a second forty-year term, under terms and conditions as the BLM deems appropriate. BLM leases issued after August 8, 2005 have a primary term of ten years. If the geothermal lessee does not reach commercial production within the primary term, the BLM may grant two five-year extensions if the geothermal lessee: (i) satisfies certain minimum annual work requirements prescribed by the BLM for that lease, or (ii) makes minimum annual payments. Additionally, if the geothermal lessee is drilling a well for the purposes of commercial production, the primary term (as it may have been extended) may be extended for five years and as long thereafter as steam is being produced and used in commercial quantities (meaning the geothermal lessee either begins producing geothermal resources in commercial quantities or has a well capable of producing 33 Table of Contents geothermal resources in commercial quantities and is making diligent efforts to utilize the resource) for thirty-five years. If, at the end of the extended thirty-five year term, geothermal steam is still being produced or utilized in commercial quantities and the lands are not needed for other purposes, the geothermal lessee will have a preferential right to renew the lease for fifty-five years, under terms and conditions as the BLM deems appropriate. For BLM leases issued before August 8, 2005, the geothermal lessee is required to pay an annual rental fee (on a per acre basis), which escalates according to a schedule described therein, until production of geothermal steam in commercial quantities has commenced. After such production has commenced, the geothermal lessee is required to pay royalties (on a monthly basis) on the amount or value of (i) steam, (ii) by-products derived from production, and (iii) commercially de-mineralized water sold or utilized by the project (or reasonably susceptible to such sale or use). For BLM leases issued after August 8, 2005, (i) a geothermal lessee who has obtained a lease through a non-competitive bidding process will pay an annual rental fee equal to $1.00 per acre for the first ten years and $5.00 per acre each year thereafter; and (ii) a geothermal lessee who has obtained a lease through a competitive process will pay a rental equal to $2.00 per acre for the first year, $3.00 per acre for the second through tenth year and $5.00 per acre each year thereafter. Rental fees paid before the first day of the year for which the rental is owed will be credited towards royalty payments for that year. For BLM leases issued, effective, or pending on August 5, 2005 or thereafter, royalty rates are fixed between 1.0-2.5% of the gross proceeds from the sale of electricity during the first ten years of production under the lease. The royalty rate set by the BLM for geothermal resources produced for the commercial generation of electricity but not sold in an arm’s length transaction is 1.75% for the first ten years of production and 3.5% thereafter. The royalty rate for geothermal resources sold by the geothermal lessee or an affiliate in an arm’s length transaction is 10.0% of the gross proceeds from the arm’s length sale. The BLM may readjust the rental or royalty rates at not less than twenty year intervals beginning thirty-five years after the date geothermal steam is produced. In the event of a default under any BLM lease, or the failure to comply with any of the provisions of the Geothermal Steam Act or regulations issued under the Geothermal Steam Act or the terms or stipulations of the lease, the BLM may, 30 days after notice of default is provided to the relevant project, (i) suspend operations until the requested action is taken, or (ii) cancel the lease. Private Geothermal Leases Certain of our domestic project subsidiaries have entered into geothermal resources leases with private parties, pursuant to which they have obtained the right to conduct their geothermal development and operations on privately owned land. In many cases, the lessor under these private geothermal leases owns only the geothermal resource and not the surface of the land. Typically, the leases grant our project subsidiaries the exclusive right and privilege to drill for, produce, extract, take and remove from the leased land water, brine, steam, steam power, minerals (other than oil), salts, chemicals, gases (other than gases associated with oil), and other products produced or extracted by such project subsidiary. The project subsidiaries are also granted certain non-exclusive rights pertaining to the construction and operation of plants, structures, and facilities on the leased land. Additionally, the project subsidiaries are granted the right to dispose of waste brine and other waste products as well as the right to re-inject into the leased land water, brine, steam, and gases in a well or wells for the purpose of maintaining or restoring pressure in the productive zones beneath the leased land or other land in the vicinity. Because the private geothermal leases do not grant to the lessee the exclusive right to use the surface of the land, the lessor reserves the right to conduct other activities on the leased land in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere with the geothermal lessee’s uses of the same land, which other activities may include agricultural use (farming or grazing), recreational use and hunting, and/or wind or solar energy developments. 34 Table of Contents The leases provide for a term consisting of a primary term in the range of five to 30 years, depending on the lease, and so long thereafter as lease products are being produced or the project subsidiary is engaged in drilling, extraction, processing, or reworking operations on the leased land. As consideration under most of our project subsidiaries’ private leases, the project subsidiary must pay to the lessor a certain specified percentage of the value “at the well” (which is not attributable to the enhanced value of electricity generation), gross proceeds, or gross revenues of all lease products produced, saved, and sold on a monthly basis. In certain of our project subsidiaries’ private leases, royalties payable to the lessor by the project subsidiary are based on the gross revenues received by the lessee from the sale or use of the geothermal substances, either from electricity production or the value of the geothermal resource “at the well”. In addition, pursuant to the leases, the project subsidiary typically agrees to commence drilling, extraction or processing operations on the leased land within the primary term, and to conduct such operations with reasonable diligence until lease products have been found, extracted and processed in quantities deemed “paying quantities” by the project subsidiary, or until further operations would, in such project subsidiary’s judgment, be unprofitable or impracticable. The project subsidiary has the right at any time within the primary term to terminate the lease and surrender the relevant land. If the project subsidiary has not commenced any such operations on said land (or on the unit area, if the lease has been unitized), or terminated the lease within the primary term, the project subsidiary must pay to the lessor, in order to maintain its lease position, annually in advance, a rental fee until operations are commenced on the leased land. If the project subsidiary fails to pay any installment of royalty or rental when due and if such default continues for a period of fifteen days specified in the lease, for example, after its receipt of written notice thereof from the lessor, then at the option of the lessor, the lease will terminate as to the portion or portions thereof as to which the project subsidiary is in default. If the project subsidiary defaults in the performance of any obligations under the lease, other than a payment default, and if, for a period of 90 days after written notice is given to it by the lessor of such default, the project subsidiary fails to commence and thereafter diligently and in good faith take remedial measures to remedy such default, the lessor may terminate the lease. We do not regard any property that we lease as material unless and until we begin construction of a power plant on the property, that is, until we drill a production well on the property. Exploration Concessions in Chile We have been awarded six exploration concessions in Chile, under which we have the rights to start exploration work with an original term of two years. Prior to the last six months of the original term of each exploration concession, we can request its extension for an additional period of two years. According to applicable regulations, the extension of the exploration concession is subject to the receipt by the Ministry of Energy of evidence that at least 25% of the planned investments for the execution of the project, as reflected in the relevant proposal submitted during the tender process, has been invested. Following submission of the request, the Ministry of Energy has three months in which it may grant or deny the extension. As of the date of this report we have received an extension for one of the six concessions. 35 Table of Contents Description of Our Power Plants Domestic Power Plants The following descriptions summarize certain industry metrics for our domestic power plants: Brady Complex Location Churchill County, Nevada Generating Capacity 20 MW Number of Power Plants Two (Brady and Desert Peak 2 power plants). Technology The Brady complex utilizes binary and flash systems. The complex uses air and water cooled systems. Subsurface Improvements 12 production wells and six injection wells are connected to the plants through a gathering system. Major Equipment Three OEC units and three steam turbines along with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age The Brady power plant commenced commercial operations in 1992 and a new OEC unit was added in 2004. The Desert Peak 2 power plant commenced commercial operation in 2007. Land and Mineral Rights The Brady complex area is comprised mainly of BLM leases. The leases are held by production. The scheduled expiration dates for all of these leases are after the end of the expected useful life of the power plants. The complex’s rights to use the geothermal and surface rights under the leases are subject to various conditions, as described in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted pursuant to the leases, and the Brady power plant holds right of ways from the BLM and from the private owner that allows access to and from the plant. Resource Information The resource temperature at Brady is 274 degrees Fahrenheit and at Desert Peak 2 is 370 degrees Fahrenheit. The Brady and Desert Peak geothermal systems are located within the Hot Springs Mountains, approximately 60 miles northeast of Reno, Nevada, in northwestern Churchill County. The dominant geological feature of the Brady area is a linear NNE-trending band of hot ground that extends for a distance of two miles. The Desert Peak geothermal field is located within the Hot Springs Mountains, which form part of the western boundary of the Carson Sink. The structure is characterized by east-titled fault blocks and NNE-trending folds. Geologic structure in the area is dominated by high-angle normal faults of varying displacement. 36 Table of Contents Resource Cooling Approximately four degrees Fahrenheit per year was observed at Brady during the past 15 years of production. The temperature decline at Desert Peak is less than one degree Fahrenheit per year. Sources of Makeup Water Condensed steam is used for makeup water. Power Purchaser Brady power plant — Sierra Pacific Power Company. Desert Peak 2 power plant — Nevada Power Company. PPA Expiration Date Brady power plant — 2022. Desert Peak 2 power plant — 2027. Financing OFC Senior Secured Notes and ORTP Transaction in the case of Brady, and OPC Transaction in the case of Desert Peak 2. Heber Complex Location Heber, Imperial County, California Generating Capacity 92 MW Number of Power Plants Five (Heber 1, Heber 2, Heber South, G-1 and G-2). Technology The Heber 1 plant utilizes dual flash and the Heber 2, Heber South, G-1 and G-2 plants utilize binary systems. The complex uses a water cooled system. Subsurface Improvements 31 production wells and 34 injection wells connected to the plants through a gathering system. Major Equipment 17 OEC units and one steam turbine with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age The Heber 1 plant commenced commercial operations in 1985 and the Heber 2 plant in 1993. The G-1 plant commenced commercial operation in 2006 and the G-2 plant in 2005. The Heber South plant commenced commercial operation in 2008. Land and Mineral Rights The total Heber area is comprised of mainly private leases. The leases are held by production. The scheduled expiration dates for all of these leases are after the end of the expected useful life of the power plants. The complex’s rights to use the geothermal and surface rights under the leases are subject to various conditions, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted pursuant to the leases. Resource Information The resource supplying the flash flowing Heber 1 wells averages 348 degrees Fahrenheit. The resource supplying the pumped Heber 2 wells averages 318 degrees Fahrenheit. 37 Table of Contents Heber production is from deltaic sedimentary sandstones deposited in the subsiding Salton Trough of California’s Imperial Valley. Produced fluids rise from near the magmatic heated basement rocks (18,000 feet) via fault/fracture zones to the near surface. Heber 1 wells produce directly from deep (4,000 to 8,000 feet) fracture zones. Heber 2 wells produce from the nearer surface (2,000 to 4,000 feet) matrix permeability sandstones in the horizontal outflow plume fed by the fractures from below and the surrounding ground waters. Scale deposition in the flashing Heber 1 producers is controlled by down- hole chemical inhibition supplemented with occasional mechanical cleanouts and acid treatments. There is no scale deposition in the Heber 2 production wells. Resource Cooling One degree Fahrenheit per year was observed during the past 20 years of production. Sources of Makeup Water Water is provided by condensate and by the IID. Power Purchaser Two PPAs with Southern California Edison and one PPA with SCPPA. PPA Expiration Date Heber 1 — 2015, Heber 2 — 2023, and Heber South — 2031. The output from the G-1 and G-2 power plants is sold under the PPAs of Southern California Edison and SCPPA. Financing OrCal Senior Secured Notes and ORTP Transaction. Supplemental Information As a result of the transition to variable energy rates under the Heber 1 and Heber 2 PPAs and the significant decline in natural gas prices, we have experienced a substantial reduction in 2012 revenues. We expect that once the PPAs are replaced or expired we will be able to secure a rate higher than the current rate. We have revised our investment plans to optimize the operation of the complex rather than increasing the generating capacity. We plan to add additional wells and replace part of the old equipment with new equipment. Jersey Valley Power Plant Location Pershing County, Nevada Generating Capacity 12 MW (See supplemental information below) Number of Power Plants One Technology The Jersey Valley power plant utilizes an air cooled binary system. Subsurface Improvements Two production wells and four injection wells are connected to the plant through a gathering system. The third production well will be used in the future as required. Re-drilling of certain injection wells is currently under development. 38 Table of Contents Major Equipment Two OEC units together with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age Construction of the power plant was completed at the end of 2010 and the off-taker approved commercial operation status under the PPA effective on August 30, 2011. Land and Mineral Rights The Jersey Valley area is comprised of BLM leases. The leases are held by production. The scheduled expiration dates for all of these leases are after the end of the expected useful life of the power plant. The power plant’s rights to use the geothermal and surface rights under the leases are subject to various conditions, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from leased property and access across leased property under surface rights granted in leases from BLM. Resource Information The Jersey Valley geothermal reservoir consists of a small high-permeability area surrounded by a large low-permeability area. The high-permeability area has been defined by wells drilled along an interpreted fault trending west-northwest. Static water levels are artesian; two of the wells along the permeable zone have very high productivities, as indicated by Permeability Index (PI) values exceeding 20 gpm/psi. The average temperature of the resource is 330 degrees Fahrenheit. Resource Cooling Will be established in the future. Power Purchaser Nevada Power Company. PPA Expiration Date 2032 Financing Corporate funds and ITC cash grant from the U.S. Treasury. Once the Jersey Valley power plant reaches certain operational targets and meets other conditions precedent we have the ability to borrow additional funds under the OFC 2 Senior Secured Notes. Supplemental Information The Jersey Valley power plant is currently operating at 7 MW, below its designed capacity. This is primarily due to the need to shut down one of the injection wells that was rendered unusable by old mining wells that we believe were not adequately plugged when abandoned by the mining operator that previously operated on the land. We plan to improve injection capacity. We conducted an impairment test and no impairment is required. Mammoth Complex Location Mammoth Lakes, California Generating Capacity 29 MW Number of Power Plants Three (G-1, G-2, and G-3). 39 Table of Contents Technology The Mammoth complex utilizes air cooled binary systems. Subsurface Improvements Eleven production wells and five injection wells connected to the plants through a gathering system. Major Equipment Eight Rotoflow expanders together with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age The G-1 plant commenced commercial operations in 1984 and G-2 and G-3 commenced commercial operation in 1990. Land and Mineral Rights The total Mammoth area is comprised mainly of BLM leases. The leases are held by production. The scheduled expiration dates for all of these leases are after the end of the expected useful life of the power plants. The complex’s rights to use the geothermal and surface rights under the leases are subject to various conditions, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. We purchased land at Mammoth that was owned by a third party. This purchase will reduce royalty expenses for the Mammoth complex. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted pursuant to the leases. Resource Information The average resource temperature is 339 degrees Fahrenheit. The Casa Diablo/Basalt Canyon geothermal field at Mammoth lies on the southwest edge of the resurgent dome within the Long Valley Caldera. It is believed that the present heat source for the geothermal system is an active magma body underlying the Mammoth Mountain to the northwest of the field. Geothermal waters heated by the magma flow from a deep source (greater than 3,500 feet) along faults and fracture zones from northwest to southeast east into the field area. The produced fluid has no scaling potential. Resource Cooling In the last year the temperature was stabilized and there is no notable decline, although one degree Fahrenheit per year was observed during the prior 20 years of production. Power Purchaser Southern California Edison. PPA Expiration Date G-1 — 2014, G-2 and G-3 — 2020. Financing OFC Senior Secured Notes and ORTP Transaction. Supplemental Information As a result of the transition to variable energy rates under the Mammoth complex PPAs and the significant decline in natural gas prices, we have experienced a substantial reduction in 2012 revenues. In 2012, we entered into two new PPAs with PG&E, which will 40 Table of Contents replace the current G-1 (in April 2013) and G-3 PPAs (at the end of 2013) with Southern California Edison. Once effective, the new PPAs will partially minimize the reduction in revenues. We have revised our investment plans to optimize the operation of the complex rather than increasing the generating capacity. We plan to replace part of the old units in the Mammoth complex (G-1 and G-3) with new Ormat-manufactured equipment. We recently started the manufacturing of the equipment. McGinness Hills Power Plant Location Lander County, Nevada Generating Capacity 33 MW Number of Power Plants One Technology The McGinness Hills power plant utilizes an air cooled binary system. Subsurface Improvements Five production wells and three injection wells are connected to the power plant. Material Equipment Two air cooled OEC units with the Balance of Plant Equipment. Age The power plant commenced commercial operation on July 1, 2012, Land and Mineral Rights The McGinness Hills area is comprised of private and BLM leases. The leases are currently held by the payment of annual rental payments, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. The rights to use the geothermal and surface rights under the leases are subject to various conditions, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. Resource Information The McGinness geothermal reservoir is contained within a network of fractured rocks over an area at least three square miles. The reservoir is contained in both Tertiary intrusive and Paleozoic sedimentary (basement) rocks. The thermal fluids within the reservoir are inferred to flow upward through the basement rocks along the NNE-striking faults at several fault intersections. The thermal fluids then generally outflow laterally to the NNE and SSW along the NNE-striking faults. No modern thermal manifestations exist at McGinness, although hot spring deposits encompass an area of approximately 0.25 square miles and indicate a history of surface thermal fluid flow. The resource temperature averages 337 degrees Fahrenheit and the fluids are sourced from the reservoir at elevations between 2,000 to 5,000 feet below the surface. The average temperature of the resource is approximately 335 degrees Fahrenheit. 41 Table of Contents Resource Cooling Will be established in the future. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted in leases from BLM. Power Purchaser Nevada Power Company PPA Expiration Date 2033 Financing OFC 2 Senior Secured Notes and ITC cash grant from the U.S. Treasury. North Brawley Power Plant Location Imperial County, California Generating Capacity 27 MW (See supplemental information below) Number of Power Plants One Technology The North Brawley power plant utilizes a water- cooled binary system. Subsurface Improvements 17 production wells and 21 injection wells are currently connected to the plant through a gathering system. An additional injection well was drilled and it is currently being evaluated. Major Equipment Five OEC units together with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age The power plant was placed in service on January 15, 2010 with commercial operation having commenced on March 31, 2011. Land and Mineral Rights The total North Brawley area is comprised of private leases. The leases are held by production. The scheduled expiration date for all of these leases is after the end of the expected useful life of the power plant. The plant’s rights to use the geothermal and surface rights under the leases are subject to various conditions, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted pursuant to the leases. Resource Information North Brawley production is from deltaic and marine sedimentary sands and sandstones deposited in the subsiding Salton Trough of the Imperial Valley. Based on seismic refraction surveys the total thickness of these sediments in the Brawley area is over 15,000 feet. The shallow production reservoir (1,500 — 4,500 feet) that was developed is fed by fractures and matrix permeability and is conductively heated from the underlying fractured reservoir which convectively circulates magmatically heated fluid. Produced fluid 42 Table of Contents salinity ranges from 20,000 to 50,000 ppm, and the moderate scaling and corrosion potential is chemically inhibited. The temperature of the deeper fractured reservoir fluids exceed 525 degrees Fahrenheit, but the fluid is not yet developed because of severe scaling and corrosion potential. The deep reservoir is not dedicated to the North Brawley power plant. The average produced fluid resource temperature is 335 degrees Fahrenheit. Resource Cooling Will be established in the future. Sources of Makeup Water Water is provided by the IID. Power Purchaser Southern California Edison PPA Expiration Date 2031 Financing Corporate funds and ITC cash grant from the U.S. Treasury. Supplemental Information Since the North Brawley power plant was placed in service, in 2010, it has been much more difficult to operate its geothermal field than other fields and the power plant has been unable to reach its design capacity of 50 MW. Instead, it has been operating at capacities between 20 MW and 33 MW. This generation level has been achieved following significant additional capital expenditures and higher than anticipated operating costs. We plan to continue to sell the generated power from the North Brawley plant to Southern California Edison under the existing PPA and at the current capacity level of approximately 27 MW and refrain from additional capital investment to expand the capacity. As noted above, during the fourth quarter of 2012 we recognized an impairment charge of $229.1 million for this plant. OREG 1 Power Plant Location Four gas compressor stations along the Northern Border natural gas pipeline in North and South Dakota. Generating Capacity 22 MW Number of Units Four Technology The OREG 1 power plant utilizes our air cooled OEC units. Major Equipment Four WHOH and four OEC units together with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age The OREG 1 power plant commenced commercial operations in 2006. Land Easement from NBPL. 43 Table of Contents Access to Property Direct access to the plant from public roads. Power Purchaser Basin Electric Power Cooperative. PPA Expiration Date 2031 Financing Corporate funds. OREG 2 Power Plant Location Four gas compressor stations along the Northern Border natural gas pipeline; one in Montana, two in North Dakota, and one in Minnesota. Generating Capacity 22 MW Number of Units Four Technology The OREG 2 power plant utilizes our air cooled OEC units. Major Equipment Four WHOH and four OEC units together with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age The OREG 2 power plant commenced commercial operations during 2009. Land Easement from NBPL. Access to Property Direct access to the plant from public roads. Power Purchaser Basin Electric Power Cooperative. PPA Expiration Date 2034 Financing Corporate funds. OREG 3 Power Plant Location A gas compressor station along Northern Border natural gas pipeline in Martin County, Minnesota. Generating Capacity 5.5 MW Number of Units One Technology The OREG 3 power plant utilizes our air cooled OEC units. Major Equipment One WHOH and one OEC unit along with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age The OREG 3 power plant commenced commercial operations during 2010. Land Easement from NBPL. 44 Table of Contents Access to Property Direct access to the plant from public roads. Power Purchaser Great River Energy. PPA Expiration Date 2029 Financing Corporate funds. OREG 4 Power Plant Location A gas compressor station along natural gas pipeline in Denver, Colorado. Generating Capacity 3.5 MW Number of Units One Technology The OREG 4 power plant utilizes our air cooled OEC units. Major Equipment Two WHOH and one OEC unit together with the Balance of Plant Equipment. Age The OREG 4 power plant commenced commercial operations during 2009. Land Easement from Trailblazer Pipeline Company. Access to Property Direct access to the plant from public roads. Power Purchaser Highline Electric Association PPA Expiration Date 2029 Financing Corporate funds. Supplemental Information The OREG 4 power plant was tested for impairment in the third quarter of 2012 due to continued low run time of the compressor station that serves as its heat source, which resulted in low power generation and revenue. As a result, during the third quarter of 2012 we recognized an impairment charge of $7.3 million for this plant. Ormesa Complex Location East Mesa, Imperial County, California Generating Capacity 54 MW Number of Power Plants Four (OG I, OG II, GEM 2 and GEM 3) Technology The OG plants utilize a binary system and the GEM plants utilize a flash system. The complex uses a water cooling system. 45 Table of Contents Subsurface Improvements 32 production wells and 52 injection wells connected to the plants through a gathering system. Material Major Equipment 32 OEC units and two steam turbines with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age The various OG I units commenced commercial operations between 1987 and 1989, and the OG II plant commenced commercial operation in 1988. Between 2005 and 2007 a significant portion of the old equipment in the OG plants was replaced (including turbines through repowering). The GEM plants commenced commercial operation in 1989, and a new bottoming unit was added in 2007. Land and Mineral Rights The total Ormesa area is comprised of BLM leases. The leases are held by production. The scheduled expiration dates for all of these leases are after the end of the expected useful life of the power plants. The complex’s rights to use the geothermal and surface rights under the leases are subject to various conditions, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted pursuant to the leases. Resource Information The resource temperature is an average of 306 degrees Fahrenheit. Production is from sandstones. Productive sandstones are between 1,800 and 6,000 feet, and have only matrix permeability. The currently developed thermal anomaly was created in geologic time by conductive heating and direct outflow from an underlying convective fracture system. Produced fluid salinity ranges from 2,000 ppm to 13,000 ppm, and minor scaling and corrosion potential is chemically inhibited. Resource Cooling One degree Fahrenheit per year was observed during the past 20 years of production. Sources of Makeup Water Water is provided by the IID. Power Purchaser Southern California Edison under a single PPA. PPA Expiration Date 2018 Financing OFC Senior Secured Notes and ORTP Transaction. Supplemental Information As a result of the transition to variable energy rates under the Ormesa PPA and the significant decline in natural gas prices, we have experienced a substantial reduction in 2012 revenues. We expect that once the PPAs are replaced or expired we will be able to secure a rate higher than the current rate. 46 Table of Contents Puna Complex Location Puna district, Big Island, Hawaii Generating Capacity 38 MW Number of Power Plants Two Technology The Puna plants utilize our geothermal combined cycle and binary systems. The plants use an air cooled system. Subsurface Improvements Five production wells and four injection wells connected to the plants through a gathering system. We drilled a sixth production well, which is currently under evaluation. Major Equipment One plant consists of ten OEC units made up of ten binary turbines, ten steam turbines and two bottoming units along with the Balance of Plant equipment. The second plant consists of two OEC units along with Balance of Plant equipment. Age The first plant commenced commercial operations in 1993. The second plant was placed in service in 2011. Land and Mineral Rights The Puna area is comprised of a private lease. The private lease is between PGV and KLP and it expires in 2046. PGV pays annual rental payment to KLP, which is adjusted every five years based on the CPI. The state of Hawaii owns all mineral rights (including geothermal resources) in the state. The state has issued a Geothermal Resources Mining Lease to KLP, and KLP in turn has entered into a sublease agreement with PGV, with the state’s consent. Under this arrangement, the state receives royalties of approximately 3% of the gross revenues. Access to Property Direct access to the leased property is readily available via county public roads located adjacent to the leased property. The public roads are at the north and south boundaries of the leased property. Resource Information The geothermal reservoir at Puna is located in volcanic rock along the axis of the Kilauea Lower East Rift Zone. Permeability and productivity are controlled by rift-parallel subsurface fissures created by volcanic activity. They may also be influenced by lens-shaped bodies of pillow basalt which have been postulated to exist along the axis of the rift at depths below 7,000 feet. The distribution of reservoir temperatures is strongly influenced by the configuration of subsurface fissures and temperatures are among the hottest of any geothermal field in the world, with maximum measured temperatures consistently above 650 degrees Fahrenheit. Resource Cooling The resource temperature is stable. 47 Table of Contents Power Purchaser Three PPAs with HELCO (see “Supplemental Information” below). PPA Expiration Date 2027 Financing Operating Lease and ITC cash grant from the U.S. Treasury. Supplemental Information The pricing for the energy that is sold from the Puna complex is as follows: • For the first on-peak 25 MW, the energy price has not changed from HELCO avoided cost. • For the next on-peak 5 MW, the price has changed from a diesel-based price to a flat rate of 11.8 cents per kWh escalated by 1.5% per year. • For the new on-peak 8 MW, the price is 9 cents per kWh for up to 30,000 MWh/year and 6 cents per kWh above 30,000 MWh/year, escalated by 1.5% per year. • For the first off-peak 22 MW the energy price has not changed from avoided cost. The off-peak energy above 22 MW is dispatchable: • For the first off-peak 5 MW, the price has changed from diesel-based price to a flat rate of 11.8 cents per kWh escalated by 1.5% per year. • For the energy above 27 MW (up to 38 MW) the price is 6 cents per kWh, escalated by 1.5% per year. The capacity payment for the first 30 MW remains the same ($160 kW/year for the first 25 MW and $100.95 kW/year for the additional 5 MW). For the new 8 MW power plant the annual capacity payment is $2 million. Steamboat Complex Location Steamboat, Washoe County, Nevada Generating Capacity 83 MW Number of Power Plants Seven (Steamboat 1A, Steamboat 2 and 3, Burdette (Galena 1), Steamboat Hills, Galena 2 and Galena 3). Technology The Steamboat complex utilizes a binary system (except for Steamboat Hills, which utilizes a single flash system). The complex uses air and water cooling systems. Subsurface Improvements 23 production wells and eight injection wells connected to the plants through a gathering system. Major Equipment 12 individual air cooled OEC units and one steam turbine together with the Balance of Plant Equipment. 48 Table of Contents Age The Steamboat 1A plant commenced commercial operation in 1988 and the other plants commenced commercial operation in 1992, 2005, 2007 and 2008. During 2008, the Rotoflow expanders at Steamboat 2 and 3 were replaced with four turbines manufactured by us and we repowered Steamboat 1A. Land and Mineral Rights The total Steamboat area is comprised of 41% private leases, 41% BLM leases and 18% private land owned by us. The leases are held by production. The scheduled expiration dates for all of these leases are after the end of the expected useful life of the power plants. The complex’s rights to use the geothermal and surface rights under the leases are subject to various conditions, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. We have easements for the transmission lines we use to deliver power to our power purchasers. Resource Information The resource temperature is an average of 290 degrees Fahrenheit. The Steamboat geothermal field is a typical basin and range geothermal reservoir. Large and deep faults that occur in the rocks allow circulation of ground water to depths exceeding 10,000 feet below the surface. Horizontal zones of permeability permit the hot water to flow eastward in an out-flow plume. The Steamboat Hills and Galena 2 power plants produce hot water from fractures associated with normal faults. The rest of the power plants acquire their geothermal water from the horizontal out-flow plume. The water in the Steamboat reservoir has a low total solids concentration. Scaling potential is very low unless the fluid is allowed to flash which will result in calcium carbonate scale. Injection of cooled water for reservoir pressure maintenance prevents flashing. Resource Cooling In the last year the temperature dropped by three degrees Fahrenheit, slightly more than the two degrees per year observed during the prior 20 years of production. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted pursuant to the leases. Sources of Makeup Water Water is provided by condensate and the local utility. Power Purchaser Sierra Pacific Power Company (for Steamboat 1A, Steamboat 2 and 3, Burdette (Galena1), Steamboat Hills, and Galena 3) and Nevada Power Company (for Galena 2). PPA Expiration Date Steamboat 1A — 2018, Steamboat 2 and 3 — 2022, Burdette (Galena1) — 2026, Steamboat Hills — 2018, Galena 3 — 2028, and Galena 2 — 2027. 49 Table of Contents Financing OFC Senior Secured Notes and ORTP Transaction (Steamboat 1A, Steamboat 2 and 3, and Burdette (Galena1)) and OPC Transaction (Steamboat Hills, Galena 2, and Galena 3) Tuscarora Power Plant Location Elko County, Nevada Projected Generating Capacity 18 MW Number of Power Plants One Technology The Tuscarora power plant utilizes a water cooled binary system. Subsurface Improvements Four production and five injection wells are connected to the power plant. Major Equipment Two water cooled OEC units with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age The power plant commenced commercial operation on January 11, 2012. Land and Mineral Rights The Tuscarora area is comprised of private and BLM leases. The leases are currently held by payment of annual rental payments, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. The plant’s rights to use the geothermal and surface rights under the leases are subject to various conditions, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. Resource Information The Tuscarora geothermal reservoir consists of an area of approximately 2.5 square miles. The reservoir is contained in both tertiary and paleozoic (basement) rocks. The paleozoic section consists primarily of sedimentary rocks, overlain by tertiary volcanic rocks. Thermal fluid in the native state of the reservoir flows upward and to the north through apparently southward-dipping, basement formations. At an elevation of roughly 2,500 feet with respect to mean sea level, the upwelling thermal fluid enters the tertiary volcanic rocks and flows directly upward, exiting to the surface at Hot Sulphur Springs. The resource temperature averages 346 degrees Fahrenheit. Resource Cooling Will be established in the future. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted in leases from BLM. Sources of Makeup Water Water is provided from five water makeup wells. Power Purchaser Nevada Power Company 50 Table of Contents PPA Expiration Date 2032 Financing OFC 2 Senior Secured Notes and ITC cash grant from the U.S. Treasury. Foreign Power Plants The following descriptions summarize certain industry metrics for our foreign power plants: Amatitlan Power Plant (Guatemala) Location Amatitlan, Guatemala Generating Capacity 18 MW Number of Power Plants One Technology The Amatitlan power plant utilizes an air cooled binary system and a small back pressure steam turbine (1 MW). Subsurface Improvements Five production wells and two injection wells connected to the plants through a gathering system. Major Equipment One steam turbine and two OEC units together with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age The plant commenced commercial operation in 2007. Land and Mineral Rights Total resource concession area (under usufruct agreement with INDE) is for a term of 25 years from April 2003. Leased and company owned property is approximately 3% of the concession area. Under the agreement with INDE, the power plant company pays royalties of 3.5% of revenues up to 20.5 MW and 2% of revenues exceeding 20.5 MW. The generated electricity is sold at the plant fence. The transmission line is owned by INDE. Resource Information The resource temperature is an average of 528 degrees Fahrenheit. The Amatitlan geothermal area is located on the north side of the Pacaya Volcano at approximately 5,900 feet above sea level. Hot fluid circulates up from a heat source beneath the volcano, through deep faults to shallower depths, and then cools as it flows horizontally to the north and northwest to hot springs on the southern shore of Lake Amatitlan and the Michatoya River Valley. Resource Cooling Approximately two degrees Fahrenheit per year. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted pursuant to the lease agreement. Power Purchasers INDE and another local purchaser. 51 Table of Contents PPA Expiration Date The PPA with INDE expires in 2028. Financing Senior secured project loan from TCW Global Project Fund II, Ltd. Supplemental Information The power plant was registered by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change as a Clean Development Mechanism. It is expected to offset emissions of approximately 83,000 tons of CO2 per year. The power plant had a contract to sell all of its emission reduction credits through the end of 2012 to a European buyer. Momotombo Power Plant (Nicaragua) Location Momotombo, Nicaragua Generating Capacity 22 MW Number of Power Plants One Technology The Momotombo power plant utilizes single flash and binary systems. The plant uses air and water cooled systems. Subsurface Improvements Ten production wells and seven injection wells connected to the plants through a gathering system. Major Equipment One steam turbine and one OEC unit together with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age The plant commenced commercial operation in 1983 and we signed the concession agreement in 1999. Land and Mineral Rights The total Momotombo area is under a concession agreement which expires in mid-2014. We sell the generated electricity at the boundary of the plant. The transmission line is owned by the utility. Resource Information The resource temperature is an average of 463 degrees Fahrenheit. The Momotombo geothermal reservoir is located within sedimentary and andesitic volcanic formations that relate to the Momotombo volcano. Main flow paths in the geothermal system are a hot reservoir layer. The shallow layer conducted deep fluids that eventually will be discharged at surface at the eastern edge of the geothermal system at the shore of the Lake Managua. Resource Cooling Approximately 3.5 degrees Fahrenheit per year was observed during the past ten years of production. Access to Property Direct access to public roads and access across the property are provided under surface rights granted pursuant to the concession assignment agreement. Sources of Makeup Water Condensed steam is used for makeup water. 52 Table of Contents Power Purchaser DISNORTE and DISSUR PPA Expiration Date 2014 Financing A loan from Bank Hapoalim B.M, which was repaid in full in 2010. Olkaria III Complex (Kenya) Location Naivasha, Kenya Generating Capacity 52 MW Number of Power Plants Two (Olkaria III Phase 1 and Olkaria III Phase 2, together Plant 1). Technology The Olkaria III complex utilizes an air cooled binary system. Subsurface Improvements Ten production wells and three injection wells connected to the plants through a gathering system. Major Equipment Six OEC units together with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age Phase 2 commenced commercial operation in January 2009 and was incorporated into Plant 1, which commenced operation in 2000. Land and Mineral Rights The total Olkaria III area is comprised of government leases. A license granted by the Kenyan government provides exclusive rights of use and possession of the relevant geothermal resources for an initial period of 30 years, expiring in 2029, which initial period may be extended for two additional five-year terms. The Kenyan Minister of Energy has the right to terminate or revoke the license in the event work in or under the license area stops during a period of six months, or there is a failure to comply with the terms of the license or the provisions of the law relating to geothermal resources. Royalties are paid to the Kenyan government monthly based on the amount of power supplied to the power purchaser and an annual rent. The power generated is purchased at the metering point located immediately after the power transformers in the 220 kV sub-station within the power plant, before the transmission lines which belong to the utility. Resource Information The resource temperature is an average of 570 degrees Fahrenheit. The Olkaria III geothermal field is on the west side of the greater Olkaria geothermal area located at approximately 6,890 feet above sea level within the Rift Valley. Hot geothermal fluids rise up from deep in the northeastern portion of the concession area, penetrating a low permeability zone below 3,280 feet above sea level to a high productivity, two-phase zone identified between 3,280 and 4,270 feet ASL. Resource Cooling The resource temperature is stable. 53 Table of Contents Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted pursuant to the lease agreement. Power Purchaser KPLC PPA Expiration Date 2029 Financing Senior secured project finance loan from OPIC and a subordinated loan from DEG. Supplemental Information See “Projects under Construction — Olkaria III Plant 2 and 3 (Kenya)”. Upon the completion of Plant 2 the expiration date of the PPA will be extended until 2033. Zunil Power Plant (Guatemala) Location Zunil, Guatemala Generating Capacity 24 MW Number of Power Plants One Technology The Zunil power plant utilizes an air cooled binary system. Major Equipment Seven OEC units together with the Balance of Plant equipment. Age The plant commenced commercial operation in 1999. Land and Mineral Rights The land owned by the plant includes the power plant, workshop and open yards for equipment and pipes storage. Pipelines for the gathering system transit through a local agricultural area’s right of way acquired by us. The geothermal wells and resource are owned by INDE. Our produced power is sold at our property line; power transmission lines are owned and operated by INDE. Resource Information The geothermal wells and resource are owned by INDE and are not under our responsibility. Access to Property Direct access to public roads. Power Purchaser INDE PPA Expiration Date 2019 Financing Senior Secured project loan from IFC and CDC that was repaid in full in November 2011. 54 Table of Contents Supplemental Information Through August 2011, the energy output of the power plant was sold under a “take or pay” arrangement, under which the revenues were calculated based on 24 MW capacity regardless of the actual performance of the power plant. From September 2011, the energy portion of revenues is paid based on the actual generation of the power plant, while the capacity portion remains the same. The actual generation of the power plant is based on a capacity of approximately 13 MW. In 2012, the energy revenues were approximately 17% of the total revenues of the power plant. Projects under Construction We are in varying stages of construction or enhancement of domestic and foreign projects, some of them are fully released for construction and two projects are each in an initial stage of construction. The following is a description of projects in California, Nevada and Kenya with a total generating capacity of 78 MW that are fully released for construction with 62 MW expected to be completed by the end of 2013 and the rest expected to be completed in 2014. Heber Solar PV Project (U.S.) Location Imperial County, California Projected Generating Capacity 10 MW (24,500 MWh per year) Projected Technology Solar PV. Condition Under development. Land The Heber Solar area is comprised of land that we own. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property. Power Purchaser The IID PPA Expiration Date 20 years after date of COD. Financing Corporate funds. Projected Operation 2013 Supplemental Information Commercial operation is expected in 2013, subject to timely completion of the interconnection that is to be provided by the IID. Olkaria III – Plant 2&3 (Kenya) Location Naivasha, Kenya Projected Generating Capacity Plant 2 — 36 MW and Plant 3 — 16MW Technology Plants 2 and 3 of the Olkaria III complex will utilize an air cooled binary system. 55 Table of Contents Condition Field development of Plant 2 is in its final stage and site construction is close to completion. Plant 3 is in early stage of field development. Subsurface Improvement Seven production wells have been drilled. Land and Mineral Rights The total Olkaria III area is comprised of government leases. See description above under “Olkaria III Complex”. Resource Information The Olkaria III geothermal field is on the west side of the greater Olkaria geothermal area located within the Rift Valley at approximately 6,890 feet above sea level. Hot geothermal fluids rise up from deep in the northeastern portion of the concession area through low permeability at a shallow depth to a high productivity two-phase region from 3,280 to 4,270 feet above sea level. The expected average temperature of the resource cannot be estimated as field development has not been completed yet. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted pursuant to the lease agreement. Power Purchaser KPLC PPA Expiration Date 20 years from COD of Plant 2. Financing Senior secured project finance loan from OPIC. Projected Operation Plant 2 — mid-2013 and Plant 3 — 2014. Supplemental Information We amended and restated the existing PPA with KPLC. The amended and restated PPA provides for the construction of a new 36 MW power plant at the Olkaria III complex. The PPA amendment includes an option for additional capacity up to 100 MW. We have closed a limited-recourse senior secured financing with OPIC. See description in Item 7 under “New Financing of our Projects”. Wild Rose Project (U.S.) Location Mineral County, Nevada Projected Generating Capacity 16 MW Projected Technology The Wild Rose power plant will utilize a binary system. Material Equipment Power plant equipment and the Balance of Plant. Condition Field development was completed and manufacturing of the power plant equipment is in an advanced stage. 56 Table of Contents Subsurface Improvement Five production and three injection wells have been drilled. Land and Mineral Rights The Wild Rose area is comprised of BLM leases. The leases are currently held by the payment of annual rental payments, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. Unless steam is produced in commercial quantities, the primary term for these leases will expire commencing September 30, 2017. The project’s rights to use the geothermal and surface rights under the leases are subject to various conditions, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. Resource Information The expected average temperature of the resource is between 260 and 265 degrees Fahrenheit. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted in leases from BLM. Power Purchaser The PPA for this power plant is in the approval process of the off-taker. Financing Corporate funds. Projected Operation 2013 The following is a description of 50 MW projects in Nevada and California that are in an initial stage of construction: Carson Lake Project (U.S.) Location Churchill County, Nevada Projected Generating Capacity 20 MW Projected Technology The Carson Lake power plant will utilize a binary system. Condition On hold. Subsurface Improvements On hold. Land and Mineral Rights The Carson Lake area is comprised of BLM leases. The leases are currently held by the payment of annual rental payments, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. Unless steam is produced in commercial quantities, the primary term for these leases will expire commencing August 31, 2016. The project’s rights to use the geothermal and surface rights under the leases are subject to various conditions, as described above in “Description of Our Leases and Lands”. 57 Table of Contents Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted in leases from BLM. Resource Information The expected average temperature of the resource cannot be estimated as field development has not been completed yet. Power Purchaser We have not executed a new PPA. Financing Corporate funds. Projected Operation To be determined. Supplemental Information Permitting delays have prevented substantial progress on the project site and on transmission until late last year and have had a significant impact on the development plan and the economics of the project. As a result, in December 2011, we terminated the project’s PPA and joint operating agreement with Nevada Power Company. CD4 Project (Mammoth Complex) (U.S.) Location Mammoth Lakes, California Projected Generating Capacity 30 MW Projected Technology The CD4 power plant will utilize an air cooled binary system. Condition On hold. Subsurface Improvements We have completed one production well and one injection well. Continued drilling is subject to receipt of additional permits. Land and Mineral Rights The total Mammoth area is comprised mainly of BLM leases, several of which are held by production and the remainder of which are the subject of a unitization agreement that is pending BLM approval. The expiration date of the leases (assuming approval of the unitization agreement) is after the end of the expected useful life of the power plant. Access to Property Direct access to public roads from the leased property and access across the leased property are provided under surface rights granted pursuant to the leases. Resource Information The expected average temperature of the resource cannot be estimated as field development has not been completed yet. Power Purchaser We have not executed a PPA. Financing Corporate funds. Projected Operation To be determined. Supplemental Information As part of the process to secure a transmission line, we are participating in the Southern California Edison Wholesale Distribution Access Tariff Transition Cluster Generator Interconnection Process to deliver energy into the Southern California Edison system at the Casa Diablo Substation. 58 Table of Contents Future Projects Projects under Various Stages of Development We also have projects under various stages of development in the United States, Kenya, Honduras, and Indonesia. We expect to continue to explore these and other opportunities for expansion so long as they continue to meet our business objectives and investment criteria. The following is a description of the projects currently under various stages of development and for which we are able to estimate their expected generating capacity. Upon completion of these projects, the generating capacity of the geothermal projects would be up to approximately 117 MW (representing our interest). However, we prioritize our investments based on their readiness for continued construction and expected economics and therefore we are not planning to invest in all of such projects this year. Crump Geyser Project (U.S.) In October 2010, we and NGP agreed to jointly develop, construct, own and operate one or more geothermal power plants in the Crump Geyser Area located in Lake County, Oregon. All activities will be carried out through CGC, a limited liability company that is owned equally by our wholly owned subsidiary, Ormat Nevada, and NGP. We will be the EPC contractor for the project, which will utilize our proprietary generating equipment and other Balance of Plant equipment. We will also be the Operator and provide operating and maintenance services to CGC. We and NGP intend to build an up to 20 MW power plant, which is expected to be placed in service gradually. Platanares Project (Honduras) In November 2012, we entered into an agreement with Geotermica Platanares to acquire a late stage development geothermal project in Honduras. The project consists of the rights to a geothermal field where exploration work has been conducted in the past and a PPA for up to 35 MW with ENEE, the national utility of Honduras. Upon the fulfillment of certain conditions and the closing of the transaction, we will become the owner of all the project’s assets, including wells, land, the PPA and the necessary permits to develop a geothermal project. Once the well field is fully appraised and the power plant is constructed, we will hold the assets under a BOT structure for approximately 15 years. Sarulla Project (Indonesia) We are a member of a consortium which is in the process of developing the Sarulla geothermal power project in Indonesia, of approximately 330 MW. We own 12.75% of the Indonesian special purpose entity that will develop and operate the project. The Sarulla project, located in Tapanuli Utara, North Sumatra, represents the largest single-contract geothermal power project to date, reflecting the large scale, high productivity and potential of the Indonesian geothermal resources. The project will be owned and operated by the consortium members under the framework of a Joint Operating Contract (JOC) with PT Pertamina Geothermal Energy, and Energy Sales Contract with PT PLN (the state electric utility which is the off-taker of the electricity from the Sarulla Project). The Sarulla combined cycle geothermal power plant is to be constructed in three equal phases over four years. Ormat’s turbines account for about 120 MW of the total expected electricity generation. 59 Table of Contents The adjustment of the electricity tariff for the 330 MW Sarulla project has already been agreed between PT PLN and the consortium, based on the verification of the agreed tariff by the BPKP (Indonesian State Auditor for Development). The JOC and the Energy Sales Contract (ESC) amendments are currently in their final stage, reflecting the agreed adjusted tariff as well as other financial and bankability conditions which have been agreed in principle by the relevant Indonesian ministries, such as the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources and the Ministry of Finance. Pending resolution of certain bankability issues, the execution of these amended contracts is expected to occur during the first half of 2013. Sarulla Operations Ltd. (the project company) has received responses from over ten international banks that were invited to submit proposals to provide limited recourse financing for the Sarulla Project. The expected financing package will consist of direct loans from the Japan Bank for International Cooperation (JBIC) and the Asian Development Bank (ADB), in addition to Extended Political Risk Guarantees to the participating commercial banks by JBIC. Sarulla Operations Ltd. has mandated certain lenders, while the selection and engagement of due diligence consultants is currently underway. On the execution side, the EPC contractor was selected and a term sheet for the supply contract, at a total value of approximately $254.0 million, was entered by us with the designated EPC contractor. Although, the consortium already started certain testing and development activities in the site, construction is expected to start after the consortium obtains financing, a process which we expect to take approximately one year from the date of execution of the amended ESC and JOC. Wister Project (U.S.) We plan to develop the Wister project on private leases located in Imperial County, California. We expect the first phase of the project to be 30 MW. The project has been awarded an exploration grant of $4.5 million under the DOE’s Innovative Exploration and Drilling Projects program and the exploration activity under this program has started. Since it became clear that Wister will not be able to meet the PPA milestones we started discussions with the off-taker on a possible cancellation of the PPA. Exploration Prospects We have a substantial land position that is expected to support future development on which we have started or plan to start exploration activity. Our land position is comprised of various leases and private land for geothermal resources of approximately 272,000 acres in 30 prospects including the following: Nevada [13] Argenta Under exploration studies Baltazar Under exploration studies Beowawe Under exploration studies. Dixie Hope Under exploratory drilling. Dixie Meadows — Comstock Completed exploration studies; expected to start exploratory drilling. Edwards Creek Under exploratory drilling. Hycroft Under exploration studies. Tungsten Mountain Under exploratory drilling. 60 Table of Contents Tuscarora Expansion Completed exploration studies; awaiting permits to start exploratory drilling. Wildhorse (Mustang) Under exploration studies. Aqua Quieta Completed exploration studies; expected to start exploratory drilling. South Jersey Lease acquired but no further action has yet been taken. McGinness Hills expansion Completed exploration studies; expected to start exploratory drilling. California [2] East and North Brawley Deep resource lease acquired but no further action has yet been taken. Rhyolite Plateau Lease acquired but no further action has yet been taken. Hawaii [3] Ulupalakua (Maui) Completed exploration studies; the project has been awarded an exploration grant of $4.9 million under the DOE’s Innovative Exploration and Drilling Projects program. Kula Lease acquired but no further action has yet been taken Kona Under exploration studies. Oregon [4] Glass Buttes — Mahogany Completed exploration studies. The project has been awarded an exploration grant of $4.3 million under the DOE’s Innovative Exploration and Drilling Projects program. Glass Buttes — Midnight Point Completed exploration studies; awaiting permits to start exploratory drilling. Newberry — Twilight Started exploratory drilling. Lakeview/ Goose Lake Completed exploration studies. Idaho [1] Magic Reservoir Lease acquired but no further action has yet been taken. Alaska [1] Mount Spurr Performed exploration drilling at the site; a $2.0 million exploration grant has been awarded from the Alaska Electricity Authority. Utah [2] Drum Mountain Under exploration studies. Whirlwind Valley Under exploration studies. New Mexico [1] Rincon Lease acquired but no further action has yet been taken. Guatemala [2] Amatitlan Phase II Completed exploration studies; expected to start exploratory drilling. Tecumburu Under exploration studies. New Zealand [1] Tikitere Signed BOT agreement; no further action has yet been taken. 61 Table of Contents In addition, we have exploration concessions for geothermal resources of approximately 336,000 acres in the following prospects: Chile [6] San Pablo Exploration concession has been approved; started exploration studies. Aroma Exploration concession has been approved; started exploration studies. Mariman Exploration concession has been approved; started exploration studies. Quinohuen Exploration concession has been approved; started exploration studies. San Jose II Exploration concession has been approved; started exploration studies. Sollipulli Exploration concession has been approved; started exploration studies. We also have an option to enter into geothermal leases covering more than 264,000 acres under a lease option agreement with Weyerhaeuser Company and agreement to conduct exploration activity at Warm Springs Tribe. We are currently exploring the following prospects: Oregon [5] Foley Hot Springs Started exploration studies. Silver Lake Started exploration studies. Summer Lake Started exploration studies. Winema Started exploration studies. Warm Springs Tribe Started exploration studies. Others Solar PV Projects (Israel) We have rights to develop ground-mounted and roof-top Solar PV projects in Israel, either by ourselves or with a third party. Due to the changes in the feed-in tariff under the current regulation in Israel, resulting in significantly lower than initially expected feed-in tariff, together with a long permitting process, we currently decided to exclude those projects from our plan for future development. Operations of our Product Segment Power Units for Geothermal Power Plants. We design, manufacture, and sell power units for geothermal electricity generation, which we refer to as OECs. Our customers include contractors and geothermal plant owners and operators. The consideration for the power units is usually paid in installments, in accordance with milestones set in the supply agreement. Sometimes we agree to provide the purchaser with spare parts (or alternatively, with a 62 Table of Contents non-exclusive license to manufacture such parts). We provide the purchaser with at least a 12-month warranty for such products. We usually also provide the purchaser (often, upon receipt of advances made by the purchaser) with a guarantee, which expires in part upon delivery of the equipment to the site and fully expires at the termination of the warranty period. The guarantees are typically supported by letters of credit. Power Units for Recovered Energy-Based Power Generation. We design, manufacture, and sell power units used to generate electricity from recovered energy or so-called “waste heat”. Our existing and target customers include interstate natural gas pipeline owners and operators, gas processing plant owners and operators, cement plant owners and operators, and other companies engaged in other energy-intensive industrial processes. We have two different business models for this product line. • The first business model, which is similar to the model utilized in our geothermal power generation business, consists of the development, construction, ownership, and operation of recovered energy-based generation power plants. In this case, we will enter into agreements to purchase industrial waste heat, and enter into long-term PPAs with off-takers to sell the electricity generated by the REG unit that utilizes such industrial waste heat. The power purchasers in such cases generally are investor-owned electric utilities or local electrical cooperatives. • Pursuant to the second business model, we construct and sell the power units for recovered energy-based power generation to third parties for use in “inside-the-fence” installations or otherwise. Our customers include gas processing plant owners and operators, cement plant owners and operators and companies in the process industry. Remote Power Units and other Generators. We design, manufacture and sell fossil fuel powered turbo-generators with a capacity ranging between 200 watts and 5,000 watts, which operate unattended in extreme hot or cold climate conditions. The remote power units supply energy for remote and unmanned installations and along communications lines and cathodic protection along gas and oil pipelines. Our customers include contractors installing gas pipelines in remote areas. In addition, we manufacture and sell generators for various other uses, including heavy duty direct current generators. The terms of sale of the turbo-generators are similar to those for the power units produced for power plants. EPC of Power Plants. We engineer, procure and construct, as an EPC contractor, geothermal and recovered energy power plants on a turnkey basis, using power units we design and manufacture. Our customers are geothermal power plant owners as well as the same customers described above that we target for the sale of our power units for recovered energy-based power generation. Unlike many other companies that provide EPC services, we have an advantage in that we are using our own manufactured equipment and thus have better control over the timing and delivery of required equipment and its costs. The consideration for such services is usually paid in installments, in accordance with milestones set in the EPC contract and related documents. We usually provide performance guarantees or letters of credit securing our obligations under the contract. Upon delivery of the plant to its owner, such guarantees are replaced with a warranty guarantee, usually for a period ranging from 12 months to 36 months. The EPC contract usually places a cap on our liabilities for failure to meet our obligations thereunder. In connection with the sale of our power units for geothermal power plants, power units for recovered energy-based power generation and remote power units and other generators, we enter, from time to time, into sales agreements for the marketing and sale of such products pursuant to which we are obligated to pay commissions to such representatives upon the sale of our products in the relevant territory covered by such agreements by such representatives or, in some cases, by other representatives in such territory. Our manufacturing operations and products are certified ISO 9001, ISO 14001, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and TÜV, and we are an approved supplier to many electric utilities around the world. 63 Table of Contents Backlog We have a product backlog of approximately $262.2 million as of February 15, 2013, which includes revenues for the period between January 1, 2013 and February 15, 2013, compared to $241.0 million as of February 15, 2012, which included revenues for the period between January 1, 2012 and February 15, 2012. The approximately $262.2 million in product backlog as of February 15, 2013 includes an EPC contract in the amount of $21.0 million related to the Thermo 1 project with Cyrq, for which revenue will be recognized when payment by the customer is reasonably assured. The following is a breakdown of the Product Segment backlog as of February 15, 2013 (in millions): ExpectedCompletionof theContract SalesExpectedto beRecognizedin 2013 Sales Expectedto beRecognized inthe yearsfollowing 2013 ExpectedUntil EndofContract Geothermal 2014 $ 161-171 $ 66-76 $ 237 Recovered Energy 2013 13 — 13 Remote Power Units 2013 4 — 4 Other 2014 2 5 8 Total $ 180-190 $ 72-82 $ 262 Competition In our Electricity Segment, we face competition from geothermal power plant owners and developers as well as other renewable energy providers. In our Product Segment, we face competition from power plant equipment manufacturers or system integrators and from engineering or projects management companies. Electricity Segment Competition in the Electricity Segment is particularly marked in the very early stage of either obtaining the rights to the resource for the development of future projects or acquiring a site already in a more advanced stage of development. Once we or other developers obtained such rights or own a power plant, competition is limited. From time to time and in different jurisdictions competing geothermal developers become our customers in the Product Segment. The main companies competing with us in the geothermal sector in the United States are CalEnergy, Calpine, Terra-Gen Power LLC, Enel Green Power and other smaller-sized pure play developers. Outside the United States, our competitors in the geothermal sector include companies such as Chevron Corporation, Energy Development Corporation in the Philippines, developers such as Star Energy and Medco Energi in Indonesia, Mighty River Power and Contact Energy in New Zealand and Enel Green Power, Alterra Power, Geo Global Energy and others in Chile. While the geothermal industry is characterized by high barriers to entry, national electric utilities or state-owned oil companies might also enter the market. In obtaining new PPAs we also face competition from companies engaged in the power generation business from other renewable energy sources, such as wind power, biomass, solar power and hydro-electric power. In the last few years, competition from the wind and solar power generation industries has increased significantly. As a geothermal company we are focused on niche markets where our site-specific and base load advantages can allow us to develop competitive projects. 64 Table of Contents Product Segment Our competitors among power plant equipment suppliers are divided into: high enthalpy and low enthalpy competitors. The main high enthalpy competitors are industrial turbine manufacturers such as Mitsubishi, Fuji and Toshiba of Japan, GE/Nuovo Pignone and Ansaldo Energia of Italy, and Alstom S.A. of France. The low enthalpy competitors are either binary systems manufacturers using the Organic Rankine Cycle such as Fuji of Japan, Atlas Copco Company, GE-Nuovo Pignone of Italy, and Turboden, or systems integrators such as Turbine Air Systems and Geothermal Development Associates (GDA) of the U.S. While we believe that we have a distinct competitive advantage based on our accumulated experience and current worldwide share of installed binary generation capacity (which is in excess of 90%), an increase in competition, which we currently expect, may impact our ability to secure new purchase orders from potential customers. The increased competition may also lead to a reduction in the prices that we are able to charge for our binary equipment, which in turn may impact our profitability. In the REG business, our competitors are other Organic Rankine Cycle manufacturers (such as GE and Turboden), manufactures that use Kalina technology (such as Wasabi Energy of Australia), as well as other manufacturers of conventional steam turbines. In the remote power unit business, we face competition from Global Thermoelectric, as well as from manufacturers of diesel generator sets and small wind and solar installations with batteries. Currently, none of our competitors compete with us in both the Electricity and the Product Segments. When the proposed project is an EPC project we also compete with other service suppliers, such as project/engineering companies. Customers Most of our revenues from the sale of electricity in the year ended December 31, 2012 were derived from fully-contracted energy and/or capacity payments under long-term PPAs with governmental and private utility entities. Southern California Edison, Sierra Pacific Power Company and Nevada Power Company (subsidiaries of NV Energy), HELCO, and SCPPA accounted for 17.5%, 15.3%, 9.4% and 1.5% of revenues, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2012. Based on publicly available information, as of December 31, 2012, the issuer ratings of Southern California Edison, HELCO, Sierra Pacific Power Company, Nevada Power Company, and SCPPA were as set forth below: Issuer Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services Moody’s Investors Service Inc. Southern California Edison BBB+ (stable outlook) A3 (stable outlook) HELCO BBB- (stable outlook) Baa1 Sierra Pacific Power Company BB+ (stable outlook) Ba1 (stable outlook) Nevada Power Company BB+ (stable outlook) Ba1 (stable outlook) SCPPA BBB (outlook developing) Aa3 (stable outlook) The credit ratings of any power purchaser may change from time to time. There is no publicly available information with respect to the credit rating or stability of the power purchasers under the PPAs for our foreign power plants. Our revenues from the Product Segment are derived from contractors or owners or operators of power plants, process companies, and pipelines. In 2012, the revenues derived from a contract signed with Mighty River Power were more than 10% of our Product Segment revenues. Raw Materials, Suppliers and Subcontractors In connection with our manufacturing activities, we use raw materials such as steel and aluminum. We do not rely on any one supplier for the raw materials used in our manufacturing activities, as all of such raw materials are readily available from various suppliers. 65 Table of Contents We use subcontractors for some of the manufacturing for our products components and for construction activities of our power plants, which allows us to expand our construction and development capacity on an as-needed basis. We are not dependent on any one subcontractor and expect to be able to replace any subcontractor, or assume such manufacturing and construction activities of our projects ourselves, without adverse effect to our operations. Employees As of December 31, 2012, we employed 1,252 employees, of which 543 were located in the United States, 538 were located in Israel and 171 were located in other countries. We expect that future growth in the number of our employees will be mainly attributable to the purchase and/or development of new power plants. None of our employees (other than the employees at the Momotombo power plant) are represented by a labor union, and we have never experienced any labor dispute, strike or work stoppage. We consider our relations with our employees to be satisfactory. We believe our future success will depend on our continuing ability to hire, integrate, and retain qualified personnel. In the United States, we currently do not have employees represented by unions under collective bargaining agreements. However, a union has recently filed a petition with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) in an attempt to organize our employees in our Puna complex in Hawaii. The matter is being processed and adjudicated under NLRB procedures. We have no collective bargaining agreements with respect to our Israeli employees. However, by order of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, the provisions of a collective bargaining agreement between the Histadrut (the General Federation of Labor in Israel) and the Coordination Bureau of Economic Organizations (which includes the Industrialists Association) may apply to some of our non-managerial, finance and administrative, and sales and marketing personnel. This collective bargaining agreement principally concerns cost of living increases, length of the workday, minimum wages and insurance for work-related accidents, annual and other vacation, sick pay, and determination of severance pay, pension contributions, and other conditions of employment. We currently provide such employees with benefits and working conditions which are at least as favorable as the conditions specified in the collective bargaining agreement. Insurance We maintain business interruption insurance, casualty insurance, including flood, volcanic eruption and earthquake coverage, and primary and excess liability insurance, as well as customary worker’s compensation and automobile insurance and such other insurance, if any, as is generally carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas or as may be required by any of our PPAs, or any lease, financing arrangement, or other contract. To the extent any such casualty insurance covers both us and/or our power plants, and any other person and/or plants, we generally have specifically designated as applicable solely to us and our power plants “all risk” property insurance coverage in an amount based upon the estimated full replacement value of our power plants (provided that earthquake, volcanic eruption and flood coverage may be subject to annual aggregate limits depending on the type and location of the power plant) and business interruption insurance in an amount that also varies from power plant to power plant. We generally purchase insurance policies to cover our exposure to certain political risks involved in operating in developing countries. Political risk insurance policies are generally issued by entities which specialize in such policies, such as the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (an agency of the U.S. government), or MIGA (a member of the World Bank Group), and by private sector providers, such as Lloyd Syndicates, Zurich Emerging Markets and other such companies. To date, all of our political risk insurance contracts are with the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency and with Zurich Emerging Markets. We have obtained such insurance for all of our foreign power plants currently in operation. However, the policy for the Amatitlan Geothermal Project in Guatemala was terminated following the financing of the project in 2009 due to 66 Table of Contents our reduced equity exposure. Such insurance policies generally cover, subject to the limitations and restrictions contained therein, approximately 90% of our losses derived from a specified governmental act, such as confiscation, expropriation, riots, and the inability to convert local currency into hard currency and, in certain cases, the breach of agreements. Regulation of the Electric Utility Industry in the United States The following is a summary overview of the electric utility industry and applicable federal and state regulations, and should not be considered a full statement of the law or all issues pertaining thereto. PURPA PURPA provides the owners of power plants certain benefits described below, if a power plant is a “Qualifying Facility”. A small power production facility is a Qualifying Facility if: (i) the facility does not exceed 80 MW; (ii) the primary energy source of the facility is biomass, waste, renewable resources, or any combination thereof, and 75% of the total energy input of the facility is from these sources, and fossil fuel input is limited to specified uses; and (iii) the facility has filed with FERC a notice of self-certification of qualifying status, or has filed with FERC an application for FERC certification of qualifying status, that has been granted. The 80 MW size limitation, however, does not apply to a facility if (i) it produces electric energy solely by the use, as a primary energy input, of solar, wind, waste or geothermal resources; and (ii) an application for certification or a notice of self-certification of qualifying status of the facility was submitted to the FERC prior to December 21, 1994, and construction of the facility commenced prior to December 31, 1999. FERC’s regulations under PURPA exempt owners of small power production Qualifying Facilities that use geothermal resources as their primary source and other Qualifying Facilities that are 30 MW or under in size from regulation under the PUHCA 2005, from many provisions of the FPA and from state laws relating to the financial, organization and rate regulation of electric utilities. With respect to the FPA, FERC’s regulations under PURPA do not exempt from the rate provisions of the FPA sales of energy or capacity from Qualifying Facilities larger than 20 MW in size that are made (a) pursuant to a contract executed after March 17, 2006 that is not a contract made pursuant to a state regulatory authority’s implementation of PURPA or (b) not pursuant to another provision of a state regulatory authority’s implementation of PURPA. The practical effect of this final rule is to require owners of Qualifying Facilities that are larger than 20 MW in size to obtain market-based rate authority from FERC if they seek to sell energy or capacity other than pursuant to a contract executed before March 17, 2006 pursuant to a state regulatory authority’s implementation of PURPA or pursuant to a provision of a state regulatory authority’s implementation of PURPA. However, the rule protects a Qualifying Facility’s rights under any contract or obligation for the sale of energy in effect or pending approval before the appropriate state regulatory authority or non-regulated electric utility on August 8, 2005. Until that contract expires, is terminated or is materially modified, the Qualifying Facility will not be required to file for market based rates. In addition, PURPA and FERC’s regulations under PURPA require that electric utilities offer to purchase electricity generated by Qualifying Facilities at a rate based on the purchasing utility’s incremental cost of purchasing or producing energy (also known as “avoided cost”). However, FERC’s regulations under PURPA also allow FERC, upon request of a utility, to terminate a utility’s obligation to purchase energy from Qualifying Facilities upon a finding that Qualifying Facilities have nondiscriminatory access to either: (i) independently administered, auction-based day ahead, and real time markets for energy and wholesale markets for long-term sales of capacity; (ii) transmission and interconnection services provided by a FERC-approved regional transmission entity and administered under an open-access transmission tariff that affords nondiscriminatory treatment to all customers, and competitive wholesale markets that provide a meaningful opportunity to sell capacity and energy, including long and short term sales; or (iii) wholesale markets for the sale of capacity and energy that are at a minimum of comparable competitive quality as markets described in (i) and (ii) above. FERC regulations protect a Qualifying Facility’s rights under any contract or obligation involving purchases or sales 67 Table of Contents that are entered into before FERC has determined that the contracting utility is entitled to relief from the mandatory purchase obligation. FERC has granted the request of California investor-owned utilities for a waiver of the mandatory purchase obligation for Qualifying Facilities larger than 20 MW in size. We expect that our power plants in the United States will continue to meet all of the criteria required for Qualifying Facilities under PURPA. However, since the Heber power plants have PPAs with Southern California Edison that require Qualifying Facility status to be maintained, maintaining Qualifying Facility status remains a key obligation. If any of the Heber power plants loses its Qualifying Facility status our operations could be adversely affected. Loss of Qualifying Facility status would eliminate the Heber power plants’ exemption from the FPA and thus, among other things, the rates charged by the Heber power plants in the PPAs with Southern California Edison and SCPPA would become subject to FERC regulation. Further, it is possible that the utilities that purchase power from the power plants could successfully obtain a waiver of the mandatory-purchase obligation in their service territories. For example, the three California investor-owned utilities have received such a waiver from FERC for projects larger than 20 MW. If this occurs, the power plants’ existing PPAs will not be affected, but the utilities will not be obligated under PURPA to renew these PPAs or execute new PPAs upon the existing PPAs’ expiration. PUHCA PUHCA was repealed, effective February 8, 2006, pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005. Although PUHCA was repealed, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 created the new PUHCA 2005. Under PUHCA 2005, the books and records of a utility holding company, its affiliates, associate companies, and subsidiaries are subject to FERC and state commission review with respect to transactions that are subject to the jurisdiction of either FERC or the state commission or costs incurred by a jurisdictional utility in the same holding company system. However, if a company is a utility holding company solely with respect to Qualifying Facilities, exempt wholesale generators, or foreign utility companies, it will not be subject to review of books and records by FERC under PUHCA 2005. Qualifying Facilities that make only wholesale sales of electricity are not subject to state commissions’ rate, financial, and organizational regulations and, therefore, in all likelihood would not be subject to any review of their books and records by state commissions pursuant to PUHCA 2005 as long as the Qualifying Facility is not part of a holding company system that includes a utility subject to regulation in that state. FPA Pursuant to the FPA, among other authorities, the FERC has exclusive rate-making jurisdiction over most wholesale sales of electricity and transmission in interstate commerce. These rates may be based on a cost of service approach or may be determined on a market basis through competitive bidding or negotiation. FERC’s regulations under PURPA exempt owners of small power production Qualifying Facilities that use geothermal resources as their primary source and other Qualifying Facilities that are 30 MW or under in size from many provisions of the FPA. If any of the power plants were to lose its Qualifying Facility status, such power plant could become subject to the full scope of the FPA and applicable state regulations. The application of the FPA and other applicable state regulations to the power plants could require our power plants to comply with an increasingly complex regulatory regime that may be costly and greatly reduce our operational flexibility. Even if a power plant does not lose Qualifying Facility status, if a PPA with a power plant expires, is terminated or is materially modified, the owner of a Qualifying Facility power plant in excess of 20 MW will become subject to rate regulation under the Federal Power Act. If a power plant in the United States were to become subject to FERC’s ratemaking jurisdiction under the FPA as a result of loss of Qualifying Facility status and the PPA remains in effect, the FERC may determine that the rates currently set forth in the PPA are not just and reasonable and may set rates that are lower than the rates currently charged. In addition, the FERC may require that the power plant refund a portion of amounts previously paid by the relevant power purchaser to such power plant. Such events would likely result in a decrease in our future revenues or in an obligation to disgorge revenues previously received from the power plant, either of which would have an adverse effect on our revenues. 68 Table of Contents Moreover, the loss of the Qualifying Facility status of any of our power plants selling energy to Southern California Edison could also permit Southern California Edison, pursuant to the terms of its PPA, to cease taking and paying for electricity from the relevant power plant and to seek refunds for past amounts paid. In addition, the loss of any such status would result in the occurrence of an event of default under the indenture for the OFC Senior Secured Notes and the OrCal Senior Secured Notes and hence would give the indenture trustee the right to exercise remedies pursuant to the indenture and the other financing documents. State Regulation Our power plants in California and Nevada, by virtue of being Qualifying Facilities that make only wholesale sales of electricity, are not subject to rate, financial and organizational regulations applicable to electric utilities in those states. The power plants each sell or will sell their electrical output under PPAs to electric utilities (Sierra Pacific Power Company, Nevada Power Company, Southern California Edison or SCPPA). All of the utilities except SCPPA are regulated by their respective state public utilities commissions. Sierra Pacific Power Company and Nevada Power Company, which merged and are doing business as NV Energy, are regulated by the PUCN. Southern California Edison is regulated by the CPUC. Under Hawaii law, non-fossil generators are not subject to regulation as public utilities. Hawaii law provides that a geothermal power producer is to negotiate the rate for its output with the public utility purchaser. If such rate cannot be determined by mutual accord, the PUCH will set a just and reasonable rate. If a non-fossil generator in Hawaii is a Qualifying Facility, federal law applies to such Qualifying Facility and the utility is required to purchase the energy and capacity at its avoided cost. The rates for our power plant in Hawaii are established under a long-term PPA with HELCO. Environmental Permits U.S. environmental permitting regimes with respect to geothermal projects center upon several general areas of focus. The first involves land use approvals. These may take the form of Special Use Permits or Conditional Use Permits from local planning authorities or a series of development and utilization plan approvals and right of way approvals where the geothermal facility is entirely or partly on BLM or U.S. Forest Service lands. Certain federal approvals require a review of environmental impacts in conformance with the federal National Environmental Policy Act. In California, some local permit approvals require a similar review of environmental impacts under a state statute known as the California Environmental Quality Act. These federal and local land use approvals typically impose conditions and restrictions on the construction, scope and operation of geothermal projects. The second category of permitting focuses on the installation and use of the geothermal wells themselves. Geothermal projects typically have three types of wells: (i) exploration wells designed to define and verify the geothermal resource, (ii) production wells to extract the hot geothermal liquids (also known as brine) for the power plant, and (iii) injection wells to inject the brine back into the subsurface resource. In Nevada and on BLM lands, the well permits take the form of geothermal drilling permits for well installation. Approvals are also required to modify wells, including for use as production or injection wells. For all wells drilled in Nevada, a geothermal drilling permit must be obtained from the Nevada Division of Minerals. Those wells in Nevada to be used for injection will also require Underground Injection Control permits from the Nevada Division of Environmental Protection. Geothermal wells on private lands in California require drilling permits from the California Department of Conservation’s DOGGR. The eventual designation of these installed wells as individual production or injection wells and the ultimate closure of any wells is also reviewed and approved by DOGGR pursuant to a DOGGR-approved Geothermal Injection Program. A third category of permits involves the regulation of potential air emissions associated with the construction and operation of wells and power plants and surface water discharges associated with construction and operations activities. Generally, each well and plant requires a preconstruction air permit and storm water discharge permit before earthwork can commence. In addition, in some jurisdictions the wells that are to be used for production require and those used for injection may require air emissions permits to operate. Combustion 69 Table of Contents engines and other air pollutant emissions sources at the projects may also require air emissions permits. For our projects, these permits are typically issued at the state or county level. Permits are also required to manage storm water during project construction and to manage drilling muds from well construction, as well as to manage certain discharges to surface impoundments, if any. A fourth category of permits, that are required in both California and Nevada, includes ministerial permits such as hazardous materials storage and management permits and pressure vessel operating permits. We are also required to obtain water rights permits in Nevada and may be required to obtain groundwater permits in California to use groundwater resources for makeup water. In addition to permits, there are various regulatory plans and programs that are required, including risk management plans (federal and state programs) and hazardous materials management plans (in California). In some cases our projects may also require permits, issued by the applicable federal agencies or authorized state agencies, regarding threatened or endangered species, permits to impact wetlands or other waters and notices of construction of structures which may have an impact on airspace. Environmental laws and regulations may change in the future, which may lead to increases in the time to receive such permits and associated costs of compliance. As of the date of this report, all of the material environmental permits and approvals currently required for our operating power plants have been obtained. We are currently experiencing regulatory delays in obtaining various environmental permits and approvals required for projects in development and construction. These delays may lead to increases in the time and cost to complete these projects. Our operations are designed and conducted to comply with applicable environmental permit and approval requirements. Non-compliance with any such requirements could result in fines or other penalties. Environmental Laws and Regulations Our facilities are subject to a number of environmental laws and regulations relating to development, construction and operation of geothermal facilities. In the United States, these may include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act, the Endangered Species Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and related state laws and regulations. Our geothermal operations involve significant quantities of brine (substantially, all of which we reinject into the subsurface) and scale, both of which can contain materials (such as arsenic, lead, and naturally occurring radioactive materials) in concentrations that exceed regulatory limits used to define hazardous waste. We also use various substances, including isopentane and industrial lubricants that could become potential contaminants and are generally flammable. Hazardous materials are also used in our equipment manufacturing operations in Israel. As a result, our projects are subject to domestic and foreign federal, state and local statutory and regulatory requirements regarding the use, storage, fugitive emissions, and disposal of hazardous substances. The cost of remediation activities associated with a spill or release of such materials could be significant. Although we are not aware of any mismanagement of these materials, including any mismanagement prior to the acquisition of some of our power plants, that has materially impaired any of the power plant sites, any disposal or release of these materials onto the power plant sites, other than by means of permitted injection wells, could lead to contamination of the environment and result in material cleanup requirements or other responsive obligations under applicable environmental laws. We believe that at one time there may have been a gas station located on the Mammoth complex site, but because of significant surface disturbance and construction since that time further physical evaluation of the environmental condition of the former gas station site has been impractical. We believe that, given the subsequent surface disturbance and construction activity in the vicinity of the suspected location of the service station, it is likely that environmental contamination, if any, associated with the former facilities and any associated underground storage tanks would have already been encountered if they still existed. 70 Table of Contents Regulation of the Electric Utility Industry in our Foreign Countries of Operation The following is a summary overview of certain aspects of the electric industry in the foreign countries in which we have an operating geothermal power plant and should not be considered a full statement of the laws in such countries or all of the issues pertaining thereto. Nicaragua. In 1998, two laws were approved by Nicaraguan authorities, Law No. 272-98 and Law No. 271-98, which define the structure of the energy sector in the country. Law No. 272-98 provides for the establishment of the CNE, which is responsible for setting policies, strategies and objectives as well as approving indicative plans for the energy sector. Law No. 271-98 formally assigned regulatory, supervisory, inspection and oversight functions to the INE. In 2002, the National Congress enacted Law No. 443 to regulate the granting of exploration and exploitation concessions for geothermal fields. The INE adopted this law. In 2007, Nicaragua passed Law No. 612 amending Law No. 290, which governs the organization of the executive branch. Among other matters, the new law established a new ministry of energy and mining, which has assumed all of the functions and responsibilities of the CNE. The new Ministry of Energy and Mining is responsible for administrating Law No. 443 described above, and is also responsible for granting concessions and permits relating to the exploration or exploitation of any energy source, as well as concessions and licensing for generation, transmission, and distribution of energy. The Nicaraguan energy sector has been restructured and partially privatized. Following such restructuring and privatization, the government retained title and control of the transmission assets and created the ENATREL, which is in charge of the operation of the transmission system in the country and of the new wholesale market. As part of the restructuring, most of the distribution facilities previously owned by the Nicaraguan Electricity Company, the government-owned vertically-integrated monopoly, were transferred to two companies, DISNORTE and DISSUR, which in turn were privatized and acquired by an affiliate of Union Fenosa, a large Spanish utility. Following such privatization, the PPA for our Momotombo power plant was assigned by the Nicaraguan Electricity Company to DISNORTE and DISSUR. In addition, a National Dispatch Center was created to work with ENATREL and provide for dispatch and wholesale market administration. Guatemala. The General Electricity Law of 1996, Decree 93-96, created a wholesale electricity market in Guatemala and established a new regulatory framework for the electricity sector. The law created a new regulatory commission, the CNEE, and a new wholesale power market administrator, the AMM, for the regulation and administration of the sector. The AMM is a private not-for-profit entity. The CNEE functions as an independent agency under the Ministry of Energy and Mines and is in charge of regulating, supervising, and controlling compliance with the electricity law, overseeing the market and setting rates for transmission services, and distribution to medium and small customers. All distribution companies must supply electricity to such customers pursuant to long-term contracts with electricity generators. Large customers can contract directly with the distribution companies, electricity generators or power marketers, or buy energy in the spot market. Guatemala has approved a Law of Incentives for the Development of Renewable Energy Power plants, Decree 52-2003, in order to promote the development of renewable energy power plants in Guatemala. This law provides certain benefits to companies utilizing renewable energy, including a 10-year exemption from corporate income tax and VAT on imports and customs duties. On September 16, 2008, CNEE issued a resolution which approved the Technical Norms for the Connection, Operation, Control and Commercialization of the Renewable Distributed Generation and Self-producers Users with Exceeding Amounts of Energy. This Technical Norm was created to regulate all aspects of generation, connection, operation, control and commercialization of electric energy produced with renewable sources to promote and facilitate the installation of new generation plants, and to promote the connection of existing generation plants which have exceeding amounts of electric energy for commercialization. It is applicable to projects with a capacity of up to 5 MW. Kenya. The electric power sector in Kenya is regulated by the Kenyan Energy Act. Among other things, the Kenyan Energy Act provides for the licensing of electricity power producers and public electricity suppliers 71 Table of Contents or distributors. KPLC is the only licensed public electricity supplier and has a monopoly in the distribution of electricity in the country. The Kenyan Energy Act permits IPPs to install power generators and sell electricity to KPLC, which is owned by various private and government entities, and which currently purchases energy and capacity from other IPPs in addition to our Olkaria III complex. The electricity sector is regulated by the ERC which was created under the Kenyan Energy Act. KPLC’s retail electricity rates are subject to approval by the ERC. The ERC has an expanded mandate to regulate not just the electric power sector but the entire energy sector in Kenya. Transmission of electricity is now undertaken by KETRACO while another company, GDC, is responsible for geothermal assessment, drilling of wells and sale of steam for electricity operations to IPPs and KenGen. Both KETRACO and GDC are wholly owned by the government of Kenya. Under the new national constitution enacted in August 2010, formulation of energy policy (including electricity) and energy regulation are functions of the national government. However, the constitution lists the planning and development of electricity and energy regulation as a function of the county governments (i.e. the regional or local level where an individual power plant is or is intended to be located). How this apparent overlap in functions will work out may only be known when county governments become operational after the forthcoming general elections. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our business, operating results or financial condition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our geothermal power and REG plants, which is subject to various operational risks. Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our subsidiaries’ geothermal and REG power plants. In connection with such operations, we derived approximately 63.7% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 from the sale of electricity. The cost of operation and maintenance and the operating performance of our subsidiaries’ geothermal power and REG plants may be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including some that are discussed elsewhere in these risk factors and the following: • regular and unexpected maintenance and replacement expenditures; • shutdowns due to the breakdown or failure of our equipment or the equipment of the transmission serving utility; • labor disputes; • the presence of hazardous materials on our power plant sites; • continued availability of cooling water supply; • catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, earthquakes, landslides, floods, releases of hazardous materials, severe storms, or similar occurrences affecting our power plants or any of the power purchasers or other third parties providing services to our power plants; and • the aging of power plants (which may reduce their availability and increase the cost of their maintenance). Any of these events could significantly increase the expenses incurred by our power plants or reduce the overall generating capacity of our power plants and could significantly reduce or entirely eliminate the revenues generated by one or more of our power plants, which in turn would reduce our net income and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. As mentioned above, the aging of our power plants may reduce their availability and increase maintenance costs due to the need to repair or replace our equipment. For example, in 2013 we plan to optimize the operation of our Mammoth complex and replace turbines, which were not manufactured by us. Such major maintenance activities impact both the capacity factor of the affected power plant and its operating costs. 72 Table of Contents Our exploration, development, and operation of geothermal energy resources are subject to geological risks and uncertainties, which may result in decreased performance or increased costs for our power plants. Our primary business involves the exploration, development, and operation of geothermal energy resources. These activities are subject to uncertainties that, in certain respects, are similar to those typically associated with oil and gas exploration, development, and exploitation, such as dry holes, uncontrolled releases, and pressure and temperature decline. Any of these uncertainties may increase our capital expenditures and our operating costs, or reduce the efficiency of our power plants. We may not find geothermal resources capable of supporting a commercially viable power plant at exploration sites where we have conducted tests, acquired land rights, and drilled test wells, which would adversely affect our development of geothermal power plants. Further, since the commencement of their operations, several of our power plants have experienced geothermal resource cooling and/or reservoir pressure decline in the normal course of operations. For example, some of Brady’s production wells have cooled significantly due to breakthrough from injection wells. Because geothermal reservoirs are complex geological structures, we can only estimate their geographic area and sustainable output. The viability of geothermal power plants depends on different factors directly related to the geothermal resource (such as the temperature, pressure, storage capacity, transmissivity, and recharge) as well as operational factors relating to the extraction or reinjection of geothermal fluids. At our North Brawley power plant, instability of the sands and clay in the geothermal resource and variability in the chemical composition of the geothermal fluid have all combined to increase our capital expenditures for the plant, as well as our ongoing operating expenses, and have so far prevented the plant from operation at its intended design capacity. Our geothermal energy power plants may also suffer an unexpected decline in the capacity of their respective geothermal wells and are exposed to a risk of geothermal reservoirs not being sufficient for sustained generation of the electrical power capacity desired over time. Another aspect of geothermal operations is the management and stabilization of subsurface impacts caused by fluid injection pressures of production and injection fluids to mitigate subsidence. In the case of the geothermal resource supplying the Heber complex, pressure drawdown in the center of the well field has caused some localized ground subsidence, while pressure in the peripheral areas has caused localized ground inflation. Inflation and subsidence, if not controlled, can adversely affect farming operations and other infrastructure at or near the land surface. Potential costs, which cannot be estimated and may be significant, of failing to stabilize site pressures in the Heber complex area include repair and modification of gravity-based farm irrigation systems and municipal sewer piping and possible repair or replacement of a local road bridge spanning an irrigation canal. Additionally, active geothermal areas, such as the areas in which our power plants are located, are subject to frequent low-level seismic disturbances. Serious seismic disturbances are possible and could result in damage to our power plants or equipment or degrade the quality of our geothermal resources to such an extent that we could not perform under the PPA for the affected power plant, which in turn could reduce our net income and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If we suffer a serious seismic disturbance, our business interruption and property damage insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses sustained as a result thereof. In addition, insurance coverage may not continue to be available in the future in amounts adequate to insure against such seismic disturbances. Furthermore, absent additional geologic/hydrologic studies, any increase in power generation from our geothermal power plants, failure to reinject the geothermal fluid or improper maintenance of the hydrological balance may affect the operational duration of the geothermal resource and cause it to decline in value over time, and may adversely affect our ability to generate power from the relevant geothermal power plant. Reduced levels of recovered energy required for the operation of our REG power plants may result in decreased performance of such power plants. Our REG power plants generate electricity from recovered energy or so-called “waste heat” that is generated as a residual by-product of gas turbine-driven compressor stations and a variety of industrial processes. Any interruption in the supply of the recovered energy source, such as a result of reduced gas flows in the pipelines or reduced level of operation at the compressor stations, or in the output levels of the various industrial processes, may cause an unexpected decline in the capacity and performance of our recovered energy power plants. 73 Table of Contents Unfavorable meteorological conditions may have a negative effect on electricity production at our Solar PV projects and, therefore, the revenue from such projects may be substantially below our expectations. The electricity that we expect to produce and the revenue that we expect to generate by our Solar PV power plants are highly dependent on suitable solar conditions and associated weather conditions, which are beyond our control. It is possible that the solar energy at our Solar PV plants will be lower than expected, which would result in an unexpected reduction in energy production and performance and decreased revenues at our Solar PV plants. Our business development activities may not be successful and our projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled. We are in the process of developing and constructing a number of new power plants. We recently entered the solar energy sector of the renewable energy industry and have signed a PPA with the IID for a 10 MW Solar PV project to be built in Imperial Valley, California. Our success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things, negotiation of satisfactory engineering and construction agreements and PPAs, receipt of required governmental permits, obtaining adequate financing, and the timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction. We may be unsuccessful in accomplishing any of these matters or doing so on a timely basis. Although we may attempt to minimize the financial risks attributable to the development of a project by securing a favorable PPA, obtaining all required governmental permits and approvals and arranging, in certain cases, adequate financing prior to the commencement of construction, the development of a power project may require us to incur significant expenses for preliminary engineering, permitting and legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or capable of being financed. Our lack of experience in the Solar PV sector may also affect our ability to successfully develop, construct, finance, and operate the Solar PV power projects. Currently, we have power plants under exploration, development or construction in the United States, Kenya, Chile, Guatemala, New Zealand, Honduras and Indonesia, and we intend to pursue the expansion of some of our existing plants and the development of other new plants. Our completion of these facilities is subject to substantial risks, including: • unanticipated cost increases; • shortages and inconsistent qualities of equipment, material and labor; • work stoppages; • inability to obtain permits and other regulatory matters; • failure by key contractors and vendors to timely and properly perform, including in the Solar PV sector where we will use equipment manufactured by others; • inability to secure the required transmission capacity; • adverse environmental and geological conditions (including inclement weather conditions); and • our attention to other projects, including those in the solar energy sector. Any one of these could give rise to delays, cost overruns, the termination of the plant expansion, construction or development or the loss (total or partial) of our interest in the project under development, construction, or expansion. We rely on power transmission facilities that we do not own or control. We depend on transmission facilities owned and operated by others to deliver the power we sell from our power plants to our customers. If transmission is disrupted, or if the transmission capacity infrastructure is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power to our customers may be adversely impacted and we may either incur additional costs or forego revenues. In addition, lack of access to new transmission capacity may affect our ability to develop new projects. Existing congestion of transmission capacity, as well as expansion of transmission systems and competition from other developers seeking access to expanded systems, could also affect our performance. 74 Table of Contents The aftermath of the recent global recession and its attendant credit constraints could adversely affect us. We may continue to experience lower levels of worldwide demand for energy and face tighter credit markets, as the world economy continues to recover from the disruption in the global credit markets, failures or material business deterioration of investment banks, commercial banks, and other financial institutions, concerns over the European Union debt and currency crisis and significant reductions in asset values across businesses, households and individuals that led to the recent global recession. These conditions may adversely affect both our Electricity and Product Segments. Among other things, we might face: • potential adverse impacts on our ability to negotiate waivers or modifications of the terms of existing financing arrangements with existing lenders if and when that might be necessary; • potential declines in revenues in our Product Segment due to reduced or postponed orders or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers and prospective customers; and • potential adverse impacts on our customers’ ability to pay, when due, amounts payable to us and related increases in our cost of capital associated with any increased working capital or borrowing needs we may have if this occurs, or to collect amounts payable to us in full (or at all) if any of our customers fail or seek protection under applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws. Any of these things could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. We may be unable to obtain the financing we need to pursue our growth strategy and any future financing we receive may be less favorable to us than our current financing arrangements, either of which may adversely affect our ability to expand our operations. Most of our geothermal power plants generally have been financed using leveraged financing structures, consisting of non-recourse or limited recourse debt obligations. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $1,030.9 million of total consolidated indebtedness, of which approximately $595.4 million represented non-recourse and limited recourse debt held by our subsidiaries. Each of our projects under development or construction and those projects and businesses we may seek to acquire or construct will require substantial capital investment. Our continued access to capital with acceptable terms is necessary for the success of our growth strategy. Our attempts to obtain future financings may not be successful or on favorable terms. Market conditions (including those described in the immediately preceding risk factor) and other factors may not permit future project and acquisition financings on terms similar to those our subsidiaries have previously received. Our ability to arrange for financing on a substantially non-recourse or limited recourse basis, and the costs of such financing, are dependent on numerous factors, including general economic conditions, conditions in the global capital and credit markets (as discussed above), investor confidence, the continued success of current power plants, the credit quality of the power plants being financed, the political situation in the country where the power plant is located, and the continued existence of tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital. If we are not able to obtain financing for our power plants on a substantially non-recourse or limited recourse basis, we may have to finance them using recourse capital such as direct equity investments, parent company loans or the incurrence of additional debt by us. Also, in the absence of favorable financing options, we may decide not to build new plants or acquire facilities from third parties. Any of these alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. Our foreign power plants expose us to risks related to the application of foreign laws, taxes, economic conditions, labor supply and relations, political conditions, and policies of foreign governments, any of which may delay or reduce our ability to profit from such power plants. We have substantial operations outside of the United States that generated revenues in the amount of $247.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012, which represented 48.0% of our total revenues for such year. Our 75 Table of Contents foreign operations are subject to regulation by various foreign governments and regulatory authorities and are subject to the application of foreign laws. Such foreign laws or regulations may not provide the same type of legal certainty and rights, in connection with our contractual relationships in such countries, as are afforded to our power plants in the United States, which may adversely affect our ability to receive revenues or enforce our rights in connection with our foreign operations. Furthermore, existing laws or regulations may be amended or repealed, and new laws or regulations may be enacted or issued. In addition, the laws and regulations of some countries may limit our ability to hold a majority interest in some of the power plants that we may develop or acquire, thus limiting our ability to control the development, construction and operation of such power plants. Our foreign operations are also subject to significant political, economic and financial risks, which vary by country, and include: • changes in government policies or personnel; • changes in general economic conditions; • restrictions on currency transfer or convertibility; • changes in labor relations; • political instability and civil unrest; • changes in the local electricity market; • breach or repudiation of important contractual undertakings by governmental entities; and • expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities. In particular, in Guatemala the electricity sector was partially privatized, and it is currently unclear whether further privatization will occur in the future. Such developments may affect our Amatitlan and Zunil power plants if, for example, they result in changes to the prevailing tariff regime or in the identity and creditworthiness of our power purchasers. In Nicaragua, subsidiaries of Union Fenosa, which are the off-takers of our Momotombo power plant, have been experiencing difficulties adjusting the tariffs charged to their customers, thus affecting their ability to pay for electricity they purchase from power generators. This may adversely affect our Momotombo power plant. In addition, recent sentiment in Kenya suggests increased opposition to the presence of foreign investors generally, including in the electricity sector. In addition, further re-organization of KPLC has been made with the formation of a new company known as KETRACO to undertake power transmission. No announcement has been made as to whether KPLC’s transmission assets will be transferred to KETRACO. In addition, the state owned GDC has begun operations, and has been charged with geothermal assessment, drilling of steam wells and sale of steam to future IPPs and to KenGen for electricity generation. Any break-up and potential privatization of KPLC may adversely affect our Olkaria III complex. Although we generally obtain political risk insurance in connection with our foreign power plants, such political risk insurance does not mitigate all of the above-mentioned risks. In addition, insurance proceeds received pursuant to our political risk insurance policies, where applicable, may not be adequate to cover all losses sustained as a result of any covered risks and may at times be pledged in favor of the power plant lenders as collateral. Also, insurance may not be available in the future with the scope of coverage and in amounts of coverage adequate to insure against such risks and disturbances. Our foreign power plants and foreign manufacturing operations expose us to risks related to fluctuations in currency rates, which may reduce our profits from such power plants and operations. Risks attributable to fluctuations in currency exchange rates can arise when any of our foreign subsidiaries borrow funds or incur operating or other expenses in one type of currency but receive revenues in another. In such cases, an adverse change in exchange rates can reduce such subsidiary’s ability to meet its debt service obligations, reduce the amount of cash and income we receive from such foreign subsidiary or increase such subsidiary’s overall expenses. In addition, the imposition by foreign governments of restrictions on the transfer of foreign currency abroad, or restrictions on the conversion of local currency into foreign currency, would have an adverse effect on the operations of our foreign power plants and foreign manufacturing operations, and may limit or diminish the amount of cash and income that we receive from such foreign power plants and operations. 76 Table of Contents A significant portion of our net revenue is attributed to payments made by power purchasers under PPAs. The failure of any such power purchaser to perform its obligations under the relevant PPA or the loss of a PPA due to a default would reduce our net income and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. A significant portion of our net revenue is attributed to revenues derived from power purchasers under the relevant PPAs. Southern California Edison, Sierra Pacific Power Company and Nevada Power Company (subsidiaries of NV Energy), HELCO, and KPLC have accounted for 17.5%, 15.3%, 9.4%, and 7.9%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012. There is a risk that any one or more of the power purchasers may not fulfill their respective payment obligations under their PPAs. If any of the power purchasers fails to meet its payment obligations under its PPAs, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Seasonal variations may cause significant fluctuations in our cash flows, which may cause the market price of our common stock to fall in certain periods. Our results of operations are subject to seasonal variations. This is primarily because some of our domestic power plants receive higher capacity payments under the relevant PPAs during the summer months, and due to the generally higher time-of-use energy factor during the summer months. Some of our other power plants may experience reduced generation during warm periods due to the lower heat differential between the geothermal fluid and the ambient surroundings. Such seasonal variations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If our operating results fall below the public’s or analysts’ expectations in some future period or periods, the market price of our common stock will likely fall in such period or periods. Pursuant to the terms of some of our PPAs with investor-owned electric utilities in states that have renewable portfolio standards, the failure to supply the contracted capacity and energy thereunder may result in the imposition of penalties. Under the PPAs of our Burdette (Galena 1), Desert Peak 2, Galena 2, Galena 3, Jersey Valley, McGinness Hills, Tuscarora and North Brawley power plants, we may be required to make payments to the relevant power purchaser in an amount equal to such purchaser’s replacement costs for renewable energy relating to any shortfall amount of renewable energy that we do not provide as required under the PPA and which such power purchaser is forced to obtain from an alternate source. All of these plants were in commercial operation in 2012, and to date, except in the case of North Brawley power plant, the shortfall amount has not been material. In the case of North Brawley, which operates below its contract capacity level, the purchaser’s replacement costs are materially lower than the PPA’s energy rate and therefore no payment is required. In addition, we may be required to make payments to the relevant power purchaser in an amount equal to its replacement costs relating to any renewable energy credits we do not provide as required under the relevant PPA. We may be subject to certain penalties, and we may also be required to pay liquidated damages if certain minimum performance requirements are not met under certain of our PPAs. With respect to the Brady PPA, we may also be required to pay liquidated damages of approximately $1.5 million (increased by the percent change in GNP deflator) to our power purchaser if the relevant power plant does not maintain availability of at least 85% during applicable peak periods. Any or all of these could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The SRAC for our power purchasers may decline, which would reduce our power plant revenues and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Under a number of the PPAs for our power plants in California, the price that Southern California Edison pays is based upon its SRAC, which are the incremental costs that it would have incurred had it generated the relevant electrical energy itself or purchased such energy from others. Under settlement agreements between Southern California Edison and a number of power generators in California that are Qualifying Facilities, including our subsidiaries, the energy price component payable by Southern California Edison was fixed through April 2012, but since then and in the future, it will be based on Southern California Edison’s SRAC, as 77 Table of Contents determined by the CPUC. These SRAC may vary substantially on a monthly basis, and are expected to be based primarily on natural gas prices for gas delivered to California as well as other factors. The levels of SRAC prices paid by Southern California Edison may decline following the expiration date of the settlement agreements, which in turn would reduce our power plant revenues derived from Southern California Edison under our PPAs and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. In December 2010, a global settlement (Global Settlement) relating primarily to the purchase and payment obligations of investor-owned utilities to Qualifying Facilities was approved by the CPUC and became effective on November 23, 2011. Under the terms of the Global Settlement, existing Qualifying Facilities with “Legacy PPAs” (meaning any PPA that was in effect at the time the Global Settlement went into effect) had the option to choose to enter into a “Legacy PPA Amendment” within 180 days of the effectiveness of the Global Settlement. The Legacy PPA Amendment allowed a Qualifying Facility to choose a pricing methodology option going forward from the “pricing effective date”, which in our case was the end of the fixed rate period that terminated April 2012 under a prior settlement agreement with Southern California Edison until December 31, 2014, after which the SRAC will be tied only to a formula with energy market heat rates. The pricing options that we chose for our PPAs: • In the case of our Ormesa complex and Heber complex PPAs we switched to a new SRAC methodology, which includes fixed rates, declining heat rates, a variable O&M component, an adjustment based on location, and a price adjustment if GHG costs are imposed on the facility, all until December 31, 2014, after which the SRAC will be tied only to a formula with energy market heat rates; and • In the case of our Mammoth complex PPAs we switched to the same formula specified in (1) above but with somewhat higher heat rates, no GHG cost adder and no location adjustment (for renewable resources). The Global Settlement further provides that after July 1, 2015 if the term of a Qualifying Facility’s Legacy PPA expires, the investor-owned utilities would have no obligation to purchase power from the Qualifying Facility if the Qualifying Facility has a generating capacity in excess of 20 MW. Qualifying Facilities below 20 MW will be entitled to a new standard offer PPA, with SRAC pricing and capacity payments as determined from time to time by the CPUC. The joint parties to the Global Settlement agreed that the utilities can go to FERC to obtain a waiver of the mandatory purchase obligation under PURPA for Qualifying Facilities above 20 MW and FERC has granted such waiver for these California utilities. Our existing PPAs with California investor-owned utilities are not affected by this waiver. If any of our domestic power plants loses its current Qualifying Facility status under PURPA, or if amendments to PURPA are enacted that substantially reduce the benefits currently afforded to Qualifying Facilities, our domestic operations could be adversely affected. Most of our domestic power plants are Qualifying Facilities pursuant to the PURPA, which largely exempts the power plants from the FPA, and certain state and local laws and regulations regarding rates and financial and organizational requirements for electric utilities. If any of our domestic power plants were to lose its Qualifying Facility status, such power plant could become subject to the full scope of the FPA and applicable state regulation. The application of the FPA and other applicable state regulation to our domestic power plants could require our operations to comply with an increasingly complex regulatory regime that may be costly and greatly reduce our operational flexibility. If a domestic power plant were to lose its Qualifying Facility status, it would become a public utility under the FPA, and the rates charged by such power plant pursuant to its PPAs would be subject to the review and approval of FERC. FERC, upon such review, may determine that the rates currently set forth in such PPAs are not appropriate and may set rates that are lower than the rates currently charged. In addition, FERC may require that some or all of our domestic power plants refund amounts previously paid by the relevant power purchaser to such power plant. Such events would likely result in a decrease in our future revenues or in an obligation to 78 Table of Contents disgorge revenues previously received from our domestic power plants, either of which would have an adverse effect on our revenues. Even if a power plant does not lose its Qualifying Facility status, pursuant to a final rule issued by FERC for Qualifying Facility power plants above 20 MW, if a power plant’s PPA is terminated or otherwise expires, and the subsequent sales are not made pursuant to a state’s implementation of PURPA, that power plant will become subject to FERC’s ratemaking jurisdiction under the FPA. Moreover, a loss of Qualifying Facility status also could permit the power purchaser, pursuant to the terms of the particular PPA, to cease taking and paying for electricity from the relevant power plant or, consistent with FERC precedent, to seek refunds of past amounts paid. This could cause the loss of some or all of our revenues payable pursuant to the related PPAs, result in significant liability for refunds of past amounts paid, or otherwise impair the value of our power plants. If a power purchaser were to cease taking and paying for electricity or seek to obtain refunds of past amounts paid, there can be no assurance that the costs incurred in connection with the power plant could be recovered through sales to other purchasers or that we would have sufficient funds to make such payments. In addition, the loss of Qualifying Facility status would be an event of default under the financing arrangements currently in place for some of our power plants, which would enable the lenders to exercise their remedies and enforce the liens on the relevant power plant. Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC also has the authority to prospectively lift the mandatory obligation of a utility under PURPA to offer to purchase the electricity from a Qualifying Facility if the utility operates in a workably competitive market. Existing PPAs between a Qualifying Facility and a utility are not affected. If, in addition to California, the utilities in the other regions in which our domestic power plants operate were to be relieved of the mandatory purchase obligation, they would not be required to purchase energy from the power plant in the region under Federal law upon termination of the existing PPA or with respect to new power plants, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our financial performance is significantly dependent on the successful operation of our power plants, which is subject to changes in the legal and regulatory environment affecting our power plants. All of our power plants are subject to extensive regulation, and therefore changes in applicable laws or regulations, or interpretations of those laws and regulations, could result in increased compliance costs, the need for additional capital expenditures or the reduction of certain benefits currently available to our power plants. The structure of domestic and foreign federal, state and local energy regulation currently is, and may continue to be, subject to challenges, modifications, the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, and restructuring proposals. Our power purchasers or we may not be able to obtain all regulatory approvals that may be required in the future, or any necessary modifications to existing regulatory approvals, or maintain all required regulatory approvals. In addition, the cost of operation and maintenance and the operating performance of geothermal power plants may be adversely affected by changes in certain laws and regulations, including tax laws. Any changes to applicable laws and regulations could significantly increase the regulatory-related compliance and other expenses incurred by the power plants and could significantly reduce or entirely eliminate the revenues generated by one or more of the power plants, which in turn would reduce our net income and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The costs of compliance with environmental laws and of obtaining and maintaining environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation may increase in the future and these costs (as well as any fines or penalties that may be imposed upon us in the event of any non-compliance with such laws or regulations) could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Environmental laws, ordinances and regulations affecting us can be subject to change and such change could result in increased compliance costs, the need for additional capital expenditures, or otherwise adversely affect us In addition, our power plants are required to comply with numerous domestic and foreign federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory environmental standards and to maintain numerous 79 Table of Contents environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation. We may not be able to renew, maintain or obtain all environmental permits and governmental approvals required for the continued operation or further development of the power plants. We have not yet obtained certain permits and government approvals required for the completion and successful operation of power plants under construction or enhancement. Our failure to renew, maintain or obtain required permits or governmental approvals, including the permits and approvals necessary for operating power plants under construction or enhancement, could cause our operations to be limited or suspended. Finally, some of the environmental permits and governmental approvals that have been issued to the power plants contain conditions and restrictions, including restrictions or limits on emissions and discharges of pollutants and contaminants, or may have limited terms. If we fail to satisfy these conditions or comply with these restrictions, or with any statutory or regulatory environmental standards, we may become subject to regulatory enforcement action and the operation of the power plants could be adversely affected or be subject to fines, penalties or additional costs. We could be exposed to significant liability for violations of hazardous substances laws because of the use or presence of such substances at our power plants. Our power plants are subject to numerous domestic and foreign federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory standards relating to the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. We use isobutane, isopentane, industrial lubricants, and other substances at our power plants which are or could become classified as hazardous substances. If any hazardous substances are found to have been released into the environment at or by the power plants in concentrations that exceed regulatory limits, we could become liable for the investigation and removal of those substances, regardless of their source and time of release. If we fail to comply with these laws, ordinances or regulations (or any change thereto), we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, the imposition of liens or fines, and large expenditures to bring the power plants into compliance. Furthermore, in the United States, we can be held liable for the cleanup of releases of hazardous substances at other locations where we arranged for disposal of those substances, even if we did not cause the release at that location. The cost of any remediation activities in connection with a spill or other release of such substances could be significant. We believe that at one time there may have been a gas station located on the Mammoth complex site, but because of significant surface disturbance and construction since that time, further physical evaluation of the environmental condition of the former gas station site has been impractical. There may be soil or groundwater contamination and related potential liabilities of which we are unaware related to this site, which may be significant and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. We may not be able to successfully integrate companies which we may acquire in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our strategy is to continue to expand in the future, including through acquisitions. Integrating acquisitions is often costly, and we may not be able to successfully integrate our acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other adverse operational or financial consequences. Integrating our acquired companies involves a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, including: • failure of the acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; • inability to retain key personnel of the acquired companies; • risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; and • the difficulty of establishing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including accounting controls and procedures. If any of our acquired companies suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems, this could adversely affect the reputation of our group of companies and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. 80 Table of Contents The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition, and we encounter competition from electric utilities, other power producers, and power marketers that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition from electric utilities, other power producers and power marketers. In recent years, there has been increasing competition in the sale of electricity, in part due to excess capacity in a number of U.S. markets and an emphasis on short-term or “spot” markets, and competition has contributed to a reduction in electricity prices. For the most part, we expect that power purchasers interested in long-term arrangements will engage in “competitive bid” solicitations to satisfy new capacity demands. This competition could adversely affect our ability to obtain PPAs and the price paid for electricity by the relevant power purchasers. There is also increasing competition between electric utilities. This competition has put pressure on electric utilities to lower their costs, including the cost of purchased electricity, and increasing competition in the future will put further pressure on power purchasers to reduce the prices at which they purchase electricity from us. The reduction or elimination of government incentives could adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flows. Construction and operation of our geothermal power plants, recovered energy-based power plants, and Solar PV power plants have benefited, and may benefit in the future, from public policies and government incentives that support renewable energy and enhance the economic feasibility of these projects in regions and countries where we operate. Such policies and incentives include PTCs and ITCs, cash grants, loan guaranties, accelerated depreciation tax benefits, renewable portfolio standards, carbon trading mechanisms, rebates, and mandated feed-in-tariffs, and may include similar or other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of geothermal, solar and other power products. Some of these measures have been implemented at the federal level, while others have been implemented by different states within the U.S. or countries outside the U.S. where we operate. The availability and continuation of these public policies and government incentives have a significant effect on the economics and viability of our development program and continued construction of new geothermal, recovered energy-based and Solar PV power plants. Any changes to such public policies, or any reduction in or elimination or expiration of such government incentives could affect us in different ways. For example, any reduction in, termination or expiration of renewable portfolio standards may result in less demand for generation from our geothermal, recovered energy-based, and Solar PV power plants. Any reductions in, termination or expiration of other government incentives could reduce the economic viability of, and cause us to reduce, the construction of new geothermal, recovered energy-based, and Solar PV power plants. Similarly, any such changes that affect the geothermal energy industry in a manner that is different from other sources of renewable energy, such as wind or solar, may put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to businesses engaged in the development, construction and operation of renewable power projects using such other resources. Any of the foregoing outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, future results, and cash flows. We face competition from other companies engaged in the solar energy sector. The solar power market is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. We compete with many companies that have longer operating histories in this sector, larger customer bases, and greater brand recognition, as well as, in some cases, significantly greater financial and marketing resources than us. In some cases, these competitors are vertically integrated in the solar energy sector, manufacturing Solar PV, silicon wafers, and other related products for the solar industry, which may give them an advantage in developing, constructing, owning and operating solar power projects. Our lack of experience in the Solar PV sector may affect our ability to successfully develop, construct, finance, and operate Solar PV power projects. 81 Table of Contents The existence of a prolonged force majeure event or a forced outage affecting a power plant or the transmission system of the IID could reduce our net income and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The operation of our subsidiaries’ geothermal power plants is subject to a variety of risks discussed elsewhere in these risk factors, including events such as fires, explosions, earthquakes, landslides, floods, severe storms or other similar events. If a power plant experiences an occurrence resulting in a force majeure event, although our subsidiary that owns that power plant would be excused from its obligations under the relevant PPA the relevant power purchaser may not be required to make any capacity and/or energy payments with respect to the affected power plant or plant so long as the force majeure event continues and, pursuant to certain of our PPAs, will have the right to prematurely terminate the PPA. Additionally, to the extent that a forced outage has occurred, the relevant power purchaser may not be required to make any capacity and/or energy payments to the affected power plant, and if as a result the power plant fails to attain certain performance requirements under certain of our PPAs, the purchaser may have the right to permanently reduce the contract capacity (and correspondingly, the amount of capacity payments due pursuant to such agreements in the future), seek refunds of certain past capacity payments, and/or prematurely terminate the PPA. As a consequence, we may not receive any net revenues from the affected power plant other than the proceeds from any business interruption insurance that applies to the force majeure event or forced outage after the relevant waiting period, and may incur significant liabilities in respect of past amounts required to be refunded. In addition, if the transmission system of the IID experiences a force majeure event or a forced outage which prevents it from transmitting the electricity from the Heber complex, the Ormesa complex or the North Brawley power plant to the relevant power purchaser, the relevant power purchaser would not be required to make energy payments for such non-delivered electricity and may not be required to make any capacity payments with respect to the affected power plant so long as such force majeure event or forced outage continues. Our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, from the power plants utilizing the IID transmission system, were approximately $77.2 million. The impact of such force majeure would depend on the duration thereof, with longer outages resulting in greater revenue loss. In the event of any such force majeure event, our business, financial condition, future results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Some of our leases will terminate if we do not extract geothermal resources in “commercial quantities”, thus requiring us to enter into new leases or secure rights to alternate geothermal resources, none of which may be available on terms as favorable to us as any such terminated lease, if at all. Most of our geothermal resource leases are for a fixed primary term, and then continue for so long as geothermal resources are extracted in “commercial quantities” or pursuant to other terms of extension. The land covered by some of our leases is undeveloped and has not yet produced geothermal resources in commercial quantities. Leases that cover land which remains undeveloped and does not produce, or does not continue to produce, geothermal resources in commercial quantities and leases that we allow to expire, will terminate. In the event that a lease is terminated and we determine that we will need that lease once the applicable power plant is operating, we would need to enter into one or more new leases with the owner(s) of the premises that are the subject of the terminated lease(s) in order to develop geothermal resources from, or inject geothermal resources into, such premises or secure rights to alternate geothermal resources or lands suitable for injection. We may not be able to do this or may not be able to do so without incurring increased costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our BLM leases may be terminated if we fail to comply with any of the provisions of the Geothermal Steam Act or if we fail to comply with the terms or stipulations of such leases, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Pursuant to the terms of our BLM leases, we are required to conduct our operations on BLM-leased land in a workmanlike manner and in accordance with all applicable laws and BLM directives and to take all mitigating actions required by the BLM to protect the surface of and the environment surrounding the relevant land. 82 Table of Contents Additionally, certain BLM leases contain additional requirements, some of which relate to the mitigation or avoidance of disturbance of any antiquities, cultural values or threatened or endangered plants or animals. In the event of a default under any BLM lease, or the failure to comply with such requirements, or any non-compliance with any of the provisions of the Geothermal Steam Act or regulations issued thereunder, the BLM may, 30 days after notice of default is provided to our relevant project subsidiary, suspend our operations until the requested action is taken or terminate the lease, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Some of our leases (or subleases) could terminate if the lessor (or sublessor) under any such lease (or sublease) defaults on any debt secured by the relevant property, thus terminating our rights to access the underlying geothermal resources at that location. The fee interest in the land which is the subject of some of our leases (or subleases) may currently be or may become subject to encumbrances securing loans from third-party lenders to the lessor (or sublessor). Our rights as lessee (or sublessee) under such leases (or subleases) are or may be subject and subordinate to the rights of any such lender. Accordingly, a default by the lessor (or sublessor) under any such loan could result in a foreclosure on the underlying fee interest in the property and thereby terminate our leasehold interest and result in the shutdown of the power plant located on the relevant property and/or terminate our right of access to the underlying geothermal resources required for our operations. In addition, a default by a sublessor under its lease with the owner of the property that is the subject of our sublease could result in the termination of such lease and thereby terminate our sublease interest and our right to access the underlying geothermal resources required for our operations. Current and future urbanizing activities and related residential, commercial, and industrial developments may encroach on or limit geothermal or Solar PV activities in the areas of our power plants, thereby affecting our ability to utilize access, inject and/or transport geothermal resources on or underneath the affected surface areas or construct and operate Solar PV facilities which require large areas of relatively flat land. Current and future urbanizing activities and related residential, commercial and industrial development may encroach on or limit geothermal activities in the areas of our power plants, thereby affecting our ability to utilize, access, inject, and/or transport geothermal resources on or underneath the affected surface areas. In particular, the Heber power plants rely on an area, which we refer to as the Heber Known Geothermal Resource Area or Heber KGRA, for the geothermal resource necessary to generate electricity at the Heber power plants. Imperial County has adopted a “specific plan area” that covers the Heber KGRA, which we refer to as the “Heber Specific Plan Area”. The Heber Specific Plan Area allows commercial, residential, industrial and other employment oriented development in a mixed-use orientation, which currently includes geothermal uses. Several of the landowners from whom we hold geothermal leases have expressed an interest in developing their land for residential, commercial, industrial or other surface uses in accordance with the parameters of the Heber Specific Plan Area. Currently, Imperial County’s Heber Specific Plan Area is coordinated with the cities of El Centro and Calexico. There has been ongoing underlying interest since the early 1990s to incorporate the community of Heber. While any incorporation process would likely take several years, if Heber were to be incorporated, the City of Heber could replace Imperial County as the governing land use authority, which, depending on its policies, could have a significant effect on land use and availability of geothermal resources and any future expansion of our Solar PV plant near the Heber complex. Current and future development proposals within Imperial County and the City of Calexico, applications for annexations to the City of Calexico, and plans to expand public infrastructure may affect surface areas within the Heber KGRA, thereby limiting our ability to utilize, access, inject and/or transport the geothermal resource on or underneath the affected surface area that is necessary for the operation of our Heber power plants, which could adversely affect our operations and reduce our revenues. Current construction works and urban developments in the vicinity of our Steamboat complex of power plants in Nevada may also affect future permitting for geothermal operations relating to those power plants. Such 83 Table of Contents works and developments include plans for the construction of a new casino hotel and other commercial or industrial developments on land in the vicinity of our Steamboat complex. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel. In particular, our success depends on the continued efforts of Lucien Bronicki, Yehudit Bronicki and Yoram Bronicki, and other key employees. The loss of the services of any key employee could materially harm our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Although to date we have been successful in retaining the services of senior management and have entered into employment agreements with Lucien Bronicki, Yehudit Bronicki and Yoram Bronicki, such members of our senior management may terminate their employment agreements without cause and with notice periods ranging from 30 to 180 days. In addition, while Lucien and Yehudit Bronicki have not indicated any plan to retire, they are 78 and 71 years old, respectively, and either of them may decide to retire at any time. We may also not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for our senior management or key employees if their services were no longer available. Our power plants have generally been financed through a combination of our corporate funds and limited or non-recourse project finance debt and lease financing. If our project subsidiaries default on their obligations under such limited or non-recourse debt or lease financing, we may be required to make certain payments to the relevant debt holders, and if the collateral supporting such leveraged financing structures is foreclosed upon we may lose certain of our power plants. Our power plants have generally been financed using a combination of our corporate funds and limited or non-recourse project finance debt or lease financing. Limited recourse project finance debt refers to our additional agreement, as part of the financing of a power plant, to provide limited financial support for the power plant subsidiary in the form of limited guarantees, indemnities, capital contributions and agreements to pay certain debt service deficiencies. Non-recourse project finance debt or lease financing refers to financing arrangements that are repaid solely from the power plant’s revenues and are secured by the power plant’s physical assets, major contracts, cash accounts and, in many cases, our ownership interest in the project subsidiary. If our project subsidiaries default on their obligations under the relevant debt documents, creditors of a limited recourse project financing will have direct recourse to us, to the extent of our limited recourse obligations, which may require us to use distributions received by us from other power plants, as well as other sources of cash available to us, in order to satisfy such obligations. In addition, if our project subsidiaries default on their obligations under the relevant debt documents (or a default under such debt documents arises as a result of a cross-default to the debt documents of some of our other power plants) and the creditors foreclose on the relevant collateral, we may lose our ownership interest in the relevant project subsidiary or our project subsidiary owning the power plant would only retain an interest in the physical assets, if any, remaining after all debts and obligations were paid in full. Changes in costs and technology may significantly impact our business by making our power plants and products less competitive. A basic premise of our business model is that generating baseload power at geothermal power plants achieves economies of scale and produces electricity at a competitive price. However, traditional coal-fired systems and gas-fired systems may under certain economic conditions produce electricity at lower average prices than our geothermal plants. In addition, there are other technologies that can produce electricity, most notably fossil fuel power systems, hydroelectric systems, fuel cells, microturbines, windmills, Solar PV cells and Solar PV systems. Some of these alternative technologies currently produce electricity at a higher average price than our geothermal plants, however research and development activities are ongoing to seek improvements in such alternate technologies and their cost of producing electricity is gradually declining. It is possible that advances will further reduce the cost of alternate methods of power generation to a level that is equal to or below that of most geothermal power generation technologies. If this were to happen, the competitive advantage of our power plants may be significantly impaired. 84 Table of Contents Our expectations regarding the market potential for the development of recovered energy-based power generation may not materialize, and as a result we may not derive any significant revenues from this line of business. Demand for our recovered energy-based power generation units may not materialize or grow at the levels that we expect. We currently face competition in this market from manufacturers of conventional steam turbines and may face competition from other related technologies in the future. If this market does not materialize at the levels that we expect, such failure may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results, and cash flow. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our business. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our business. While we occasionally file patent applications, patents may not be issued on the basis of such applications or, if patents are issued, they may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any patents issued to us or for which we have use rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In order to safeguard our unpatented proprietary know-how, trade secrets and technology, we rely primarily upon trade secret protection and non-disclosure provisions in agreements with employees and others having access to confidential information. These measures may not adequately protect us from disclosure or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Even if we adequately protect our intellectual property rights, litigation may be necessary to enforce these rights, which could result in substantial costs to us and a substantial diversion of management attention. Also, while we have attempted to ensure that our technology and the operation of our business do not infringe other parties’ patents and proprietary rights, our competitors or other parties may assert that certain aspects of our business or technology may be covered by patents held by them. Infringement or other intellectual property claims, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, can be expensive and time-consuming and can divert management’s attention from our core business. Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber-attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt our business, or the businesses of third parties, may impact our operations in unpredictable ways and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. We are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber-attacks, including, among others, malware, viruses and attachments to e-mails, and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. Our generation and transmission facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets, could be directly or indirectly affected by such activities. Terrorist acts or other similar events could harm our business by limiting our ability to generate or transmit power and by delaying the development and construction of new generating facilities and capital improvements to existing facilities. These events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair and insure our assets, and could adversely affect operations by contributing to the disruption of supplies and markets for geothermal and recovered energy. Such events could also impair our ability to raise capital by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity. We operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite our implementation of security measures, all of our technology systems (and any programs or data stored thereon or therein) are vulnerable to security breaches, failures, data leakage or unauthorized access due to such activities. Those breaches and events may result from acts of our employees, contractors or third parties. If our technology systems were to fail or be breached and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. 85 Table of Contents The implementation of security guidelines and measures and maintenance of insurance, to the extent available, addressing such activities could increase costs. These types of events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. In addition such events could require significant management attention and resources and could adversely affect our reputation among customers and the public. A disruption of transmission or the transmission infrastructure facilities of third parties could negatively impact our business. Because generation and transmission systems are part of an interconnected system, we face the risk of possible loss of business due to a disruption caused by the impact of an event on the interconnected system within our systems or within a neighboring system. Any such disruption could adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Possible fluctuations in the cost of construction, raw materials, and drilling may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results, and cash flow. Our manufacturing operations are dependent on the supply of various raw materials, including primarily steel and aluminum, and on the supply of various industrial equipment components that we use. We currently obtain all such materials and equipment at prevailing market prices. We are not dependent on any one supplier and do not have any long-term agreements with any of our suppliers. Future cost increases of such raw materials and equipment, to the extent not otherwise passed along to our customers, could adversely affect our profit margins. Conditions in and around Israel, where the majority of our senior management and all of our production and manufacturing facilities are located, may adversely affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products or manage our power plants. The majority of our senior management and all of our production and manufacturing facilities are located in Israel. Operations in Israel accounted for approximately 18.0%, 22.9% and 18.8% of our operating expenses in the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As such, political, economic and security conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and the continued state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Negotiations between Israel and representatives of the Palestinian Authority in an effort to resolve the state of conflict have been sporadic and have failed to result in peace. The establishment in 2006 of a government in the Gaza territory by representatives of the Hamas militant group has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. In each of December 2008 and November 2012, Israel engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas, each of which involved additional missile strikes from the Gaza Strip into Israel and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in the proximity of the border with the Gaza Strip. Our production facilities in Israel are located approximately 26 miles from the border with the Gaza Strip. The recent political instability and civil unrest in the Middle East and North Africa (including the ongoing civil war in Syria) as well as the recently increased tension between Iran and Israel have raised new concerns regarding security in the region and the potential for armed conflict or other hostilities involving Israel. We could be adversely affected by any such hostilities, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In addition, the sale of products manufactured in Israel may be adversely affected in certain countries by restrictive laws, policies or practices directed toward Israel or companies having operations in Israel. In addition, some of our employees in Israel are subject to being called upon to perform military service in Israel, and their absence may have an adverse effect upon our operations. Generally, unless exempt, male adult citizens of Israel under the age of 41 are obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually. Additionally, all such citizens are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. 86 Table of Contents These events and conditions could disrupt our operations in Israel, which could materially harm our business, financial condition, future results, and cash flow. If our parent defaults on its lease agreement with the Israel Land Administration, or is involved in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, our rights and remedies under certain agreements pursuant to which we acquired our product business and pursuant to which we sublease our land and manufacturing facilities from our parent may be adversely affected. We acquired our business relating to the manufacture and sale of products for electricity generation and related services from our parent, Ormat Industries. In connection with that acquisition, we entered into a sublease with Ormat Industries for the lease of the land and facilities in Yavne, Israel where our manufacturing and production operations are conducted and where our Israeli offices are located. Under the terms of our parent’s lease agreement with the Israel Land Administration our sublease is for a period of twenty-five years less one day. The consent of the Israel Land Administration was obtained for a period of the shorter of (i) 25 years or (ii) the remaining period of the underlying lease agreement with the Israel Land Administration, which terminates between 2018 and 2047. We recently entered into a new lease agreement with Ormat Industries for the sublease of additional manufacturing facilities that were built adjacent to the existing facilities. The agreement will expire on the same date as the abovementioned agreement. If our parent were to breach its obligations to the Israel Land Administration under its lease agreement, the Israel Land Administration could terminate the lease agreement and, consequently, our sublease would terminate as well. As part of the acquisition described in the preceding paragraph, we also entered into a patent license agreement with Ormat Industries, pursuant to which we were granted an exclusive license for certain patents and trademarks relating to certain technologies that are used in our business. If a bankruptcy case were commenced by or against our parent, it is possible that performance of all or part of the agreements entered into in connection with such acquisition (including the lease of land and facilities described above) could be stayed by the bankruptcy court in Israel or rejected by a liquidator appointed pursuant to the Bankruptcy Ordinance in Israel and thus not be enforceable. Any of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, future results, and cash flow. We are a holding company and our revenues depend substantially on the performance of our subsidiaries and the power plants they operate, most of which are subject to restrictions and taxation on dividends and distributions. We are a holding company whose primary assets are our ownership of the equity interests in our subsidiaries. We conduct no other business and, as a result, we depend entirely upon our subsidiaries’ earnings and cash flow. The agreements pursuant to which most of our subsidiaries have incurred debt restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us prior to the satisfaction of other obligations, including the payment of operating expenses, debt service and replenishment or maintenance of cash reserves. In the case of some of our power plants that are owned jointly with other partners there may be certain additional restrictions on dividend distributions pursuant to our agreements with those partners. Further, if we elect to receive distributions of earnings from our foreign operations, we may incur United States taxes on account of such distributions, net of any available foreign tax credits. In all of the foreign countries where our existing power plants are located, dividend payments to us are also subject to withholding taxes. Each of the events described above may reduce or eliminate the aggregate amount of revenues we can receive from our subsidiaries. Those of our directors and executive officers who also hold positions with our parent may have conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving both companies. Two of our eight directors are directors and/or officers of Ormat Industries, namely Yehudit Bronicki and Gillon Beck. Our Chief Technology Officer, Lucien Bronicki is a director of Ormat Industries. In addition, two of our executive officers are also executive officers of Ormat Industries, namely our Chief Financial Officer, 87 Table of Contents Joseph Tenne, is the Chief Financial Officer of our parent, and our Senior Vice President — Contract Management and Corporate Secretary, Etty Rosner, is the Corporate Secretary of our parent. These directors and officers owe fiduciary duties to both companies and may have conflicts of interest on matters affecting both us and our parent, and in some circumstances may have interests adverse to our interests. Our parent or its controlling stockholders may take actions that conflict with your interests. Ormat Industries holds approximately 60% of our common stock. Because of these holdings, our parent company will be able to exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of our significant corporate transactions, and they will have significant control over our management and policies. The directors elected by our parent will be able to significantly influence decisions affecting our capital structure, dividend policies, share issuances and repurchases, and other matters presented for action by our directors. This control may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. Certain of our parent company’s shareholders, through their ownership of our parent’s shares, by contract or otherwise, may also affect our management and policies in various respects. As of February 28, 2013 approximately: • 22.07% of our parent’s ordinary shares was held by Bronicki Investments, a privately held Israeli company that is controlled by Lucien and Yehudit Bronicki. • 22.50% of our parent’s ordinary shares was held by FIMI. Bronicki Investments and FIMI are parties to a Shareholders Rights Agreement (the “Shareholder Agreement”) that, among other things, includes joint voting and other arrangements that affect our parent and in certain cases its subsidiaries, including us and our subsidiaries. The principal impact of that Shareholder Agreement on us and our subsidiaries are undertakings that: • subject to any applicable law and fiduciary duties, Bronicki Investments and FIMI will use their reasonable efforts to cause an equal number of designees of Bronicki Investments and FIMI to be elected or appointed to our Board of Directors and to the boards of all active subsidiaries of our parent (including our subsidiaries). In the case of our board, FIMI and Bronicki Investments each have the right to designate four members (subject to staged adjustments if either FIMI or Bronicki Investments or both cease to own specified minimum amounts of our parent’s ordinary shares, within various ranges specified in the Shareholder Agreement); and • subject to any applicable law, use their best efforts to cause (subject to continued holding of certain minimum amounts of our parent’s ordinary shares): • the continued service of Yehudit Bronicki as our Chief Executive Officer and of Yoram Bronicki as our President and Chief Operations Officer, in each case for a service period set forth in the Shareholder Agreement. If either Yehudit Bronicki or Yoram Bronicki is unable to fulfill these positions, Bronicki Investments is entitled to appoint to the applicable position another designee; • the appointment of FIMI’s designee to serve as our Chairman of the Board for a service period set forth in the Shareholder Agreement; and • after the expiration of the service periods referred to above, the nomination of Bronicki Investments’ designee as our Chief Executive Officer or Chairman of the Board (as Bronicki Investments may decide in its sole discretion), and the appointment of FIMI’s designee as our Chairman of the Board (if Bronicki Investments’ designee serves as Chief Executive Officer) or our Chief Executive Officer (if Bronicki Investments’s designee serves as Chairman of the Board). The persons currently serving as our directors, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President and Chief Operations Officer are as contemplated by the Shareholders Agreement. 88 Table of Contents The price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially and your investment may decline in value. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations including as a result of seasonal variations in our Electricity Segment-based revenues or variations from year-to-year in our Product Segment-based revenues; • variance in our financial performance from the expectations of market analysts; • conditions and trends in the end markets we serve, and changes in the estimation of the size and growth rate of these markets; • announcements of significant contracts by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • restatements of historical financial results and changes in financial forecasts; • loss of one or more of our significant customers; • legislation; • changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; • the trading volume of our common stock; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NYSE and the market for energy companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm our business, financial condition, future results, and cash flow. Future sales of common stock by some of our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. As of the date of this report, our parent, Ormat Industries holds approximately 60% of our outstanding common stock and some of our directors, officers and employees also hold shares of our outstanding common stock. Sales of such shares in the public market, as well as shares we may issue upon exercise of outstanding options, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. On November 10, 2004, we entered into a registration rights agreement with Ormat Industries whereby Ormat Industries may require us to register our common stock held by it or its directors, officers and employees with the SEC or to include our common stock held by it or its directors, officers and employees in an offering and sale by us. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent acquisition of us, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions do not permit actions by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, these provisions include procedural requirements relating to stockholder meetings and stockholder proposals that could make stockholder actions more difficult. Our Board of Directors is classified into three classes of directors serving staggered, three-year terms and may be removed only for cause. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors may be filled only by the vote of the majority of directors then in office. Our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile 89 Table of Contents acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. New regulations related to conflict minerals may force us to incur additional expenses and may damage our relationship with certain customers. On August 22, 2012, the SEC adopted new requirements regarding mandatory disclosure for companies regarding their use of “conflict minerals” (including tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) in their products. In general, while we do not directly purchase or use any of these “conflict minerals” as raw materials in the products we manufacture or as part of our manufacturing processes, we will need to examine whether such minerals are contained in the products supplied to us by third parties and, if so, whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. If we utilize any of these minerals and they are necessary to the production or functionality of any of our products or products we are contracted to manufacture, we will need to conduct specified due diligence activities and file with the SEC a report in May 2014 disclosing, among others, whether such minerals originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. The implementation of these new requirements could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of certain components incorporated in our products. In addition, to the extent the rules apply to us, we will incur additional costs to comply with the disclosure requirements, including costs related to determining the source of any of the relevant minerals and metals used in our products, and possibly additional expenses related to any changes to our products we may decide are advisable based upon our due diligence findings. Since our supply chain is complex, we may not be able to sufficiently verify the origins for these minerals and metals used in our products through the diligence procedures that we implement, which may harm our reputation. In such event, we may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of the components of our products are certified as conflict mineral free. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 