ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our business, operating results or financial condition, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our geothermal power and REG plants, which is subject to various operational risks. Our financial performance depends on the successful operation of our subsidiaries’ geothermal and REG power plants. In connection with such operations, we derived approximately 74.1% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 from the sale of electricity. The cost of operation and maintenance and the operating performance of our subsidiaries’ geothermal power and REG plants may be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including some that are discussed elsewhere in these risk factors and the following: • regular and unexpected maintenance and replacement expenditures; • shutdowns due to the breakdown or failure of our equipment or the equipment of the transmission serving utility; • labor disputes; • the presence of hazardous materials on our power plant sites; • continued availability of cooling water supply; • catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, earthquakes, landslides, floods, releases of hazardous materials, severe storms, or similar occurrences affecting our power plants or any of the power purchasers or other third parties providing services to our power plants; and • the aging of power plants may reduce their availability and increase the cost of their maintenance. Any of these events could significantly increase the expenses incurred by our power plants or reduce the overall generating capacity of our power plants and could significantly reduce or entirely eliminate the revenues generated by one or more of our power plants, which in turn would reduce our net income and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. As mentioned above, the aging of our power plants may reduce their availability and increase maintenance costs due to the need to repair or replace our equipment. For example, in 2008, we experienced protracted failures of two of the Steamboat 2 and 3 power plant’s turbines, which were not manufactured by us. We replaced the turbines and successfully upgraded the power plant. Such major maintenance activities impact both the capacity factor of the affected power plant and its operating costs. Our exploration, development, and operation of geothermal energy resources are subject to geological risks and uncertainties, which may result in decreased performance or increased costs for our power plants. Our primary business involves the exploration, development, and operation of geothermal energy resources. These activities are subject to uncertainties that, in certain respects, are similar to those typically associated with oil and gas exploration, development, and exploitation, such as dry holes, uncontrolled releases, and pressure and temperature decline. Any of these uncertainties may increase our capital expenditures and our operating costs, or reduce the efficiency of our power plants. We may not find geothermal resources capable of supporting a commercially viable power plant at a number of exploration sites where we have conducted tests, acquired land rights, and drilled test wells, which would adversely affect our development of geothermal power plants. Prior to our acquisition of the Steamboat Hills power plant, one of the wells related to the power plant experienced an uncontrolled release. The high temperature and high pressure in the Puna power plant’s geothermal energy resource requires special reservoir management and monitoring. Further, since the commencement of their 75 Table of Contents operations, several of our power plants have experienced geothermal resource cooling and/or reservoir pressure decline in the normal course of operations. For example, some of Brady’s production wells have cooled significantly due to breakthrough from injection wells. At Momotombo, early operations without injection resulted in reservoir pressure decline and consequent reduced productivity and scale plugging in the formation near the producer wellbores. Because geothermal reservoirs are complex geological structures, we can only estimate their geographic area and sustainable output. The viability of geothermal power plants depends on different factors directly related to the geothermal resource (such as the temperature, pressure, storage capacity, transmissivity, and recharge) as well as operational factors relating to the extraction or reinjection of geothermal fluids. At our North Brawley power plant instability of the sands and clay in the geothermal resource and variability in the chemical composition of the geothermal fluid have all combined to increase our capital expenditures for the plant, as well as our ongoing operating expenses, and have so far prevented the plant from sustainable operation at its intended design capacity. Our geothermal energy power plants may also suffer an unexpected decline in the capacity of their respective geothermal wells and are exposed to a risk of geothermal reservoirs not being sufficient for sustained generation of the electrical power capacity desired over time. Another aspect of geothermal operations is the management and stabilization of subsurface impacts caused by fluid injection pressures of production and injection fluids to mitigate subsidence. In the case of the geothermal resource supplying the Heber complex, pressure drawdown in the center of the well field has caused some localized ground subsidence, while pressure in the peripheral areas has caused localized ground inflation. Inflation and subsidence, if not controlled, can adversely affect farming operations and other infrastructure at or near the land surface. Potential costs, which cannot be estimated and may be significant, of failing to stabilize site pressures in the Heber complex area include repair and modification of gravity-based farm irrigation systems and municipal sewer piping and possible repair or replacement of a local road bridge spanning an irrigation canal. Additionally, active geothermal areas, such as the areas in which our power plants are located, are subject to frequent low-level seismic disturbances. Serious seismic disturbances are possible and could result in damage to our power plants or equipment or degrade the quality of our geothermal resources to such an extent that we could not perform under the PPA for the affected power plant, which in turn could reduce our net income and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If we suffer a serious seismic disturbance, our business interruption and property damage insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses sustained as a result thereof. In addition, insurance coverage may not continue to be available in the future in amounts adequate to insure against such seismic disturbances. Furthermore, absent additional geologic/hydrologic studies, any increase in power generation from our geothermal power plants, or failure to reinject the geothermal fluid, or improper maintenance of the hydrological balance may affect the operational duration of the geothermal resource and cause it to become a wasting asset, and may adversely affect our ability to generate power from the relevant geothermal power plant. Reduced levels of recovered energy required for the operation of our REG power plants may result in decreased performance of such power plants. Our REG power plants generate electricity from recovered energy or so-called “waste heat” that is generated as a residual by-product of gas turbine-driven compressor stations and a variety of industrial processes. Any interruption in the supply of the recovered energy source, such as a result of reduced gas flows in the pipelines or reduced level of operation at the compressor stations, or in the output levels of the various industrial processes, may cause an unexpected decline in the capacity and performance of our recovered energy power plants. Unfavorable meteorological conditions may have a negative effect on electricity production at our Solar PV projects and, therefore, the revenue from such projects may be substantially below our expectations. The electricity that we expect to produce and the revenue that we expect to generate by our Solar PV power plants are highly dependent on suitable solar conditions and associated weather conditions, which are beyond our 76 Table of Contents control. It is possible that the solar energy at our Solar PV plants will be lower than expected, perhaps significantly so, which would result in an unexpected reduction in energy production and performance and decreased revenues at our Solar PV plants. Our business development activities may not be successful and our projects under construction may not commence operation as scheduled. We are in the process of developing and constructing a number of new power plants. We recently entered the solar energy sector of the renewable energy industry and have signed a PPA with IID for a 10 MW Solar PV project to be built in Imperial Valley, California and we entered into a joint venture with third parties to develop Solar PV power projects in Israel. Our success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things, negotiation of satisfactory engineering and construction agreements and PPAs, receipt of required governmental permits, obtaining adequate financing, and the timely implementation and satisfactory completion of construction. We may be unsuccessful in accomplishing any of these matters or doing so on a timely basis. Although we may attempt to minimize the financial risks attributable to the development of a project by securing a favorable PPA, obtaining all required governmental permits and approvals and arranging adequate financing prior to the commencement of construction, the development of a power project may require us to incur significant expenses for preliminary engineering, permitting and legal and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive or capable of being financed. Our lack of experience in the Solar PV sector may also affect our ability to successfully develop, construct, finance, and operate the Solar PV power projects. Currently, we have power plants under development or construction in the United States, Kenya, Chile, Guatemala, New Zealand and Indonesia, and we intend to pursue the expansion of some of our existing plants and the development of other new plants. Our completion of these facilities is subject to substantial risks, including: • unanticipated cost increases; • shortages and inconsistent qualities of equipment, material and labor; • work stoppages; • inability to obtain permits and other regulatory matters; • failure by key contractors and vendors to timely and properly perform, including in the Solar PV sector where we will use equipment manufactured by others; • inability to secure the required transmission capacity; • adverse environmental and geological conditions (including inclement weather conditions); and • our attention to other projects, including those in the solar energy sector. Any one of which could give rise to delays, cost overruns, the termination of the plant expansion, construction or development or the loss (total or partial) of our interest in the project under development, construction, or expansion. We rely on power transmission facilities that we do not own or control. We depend on transmission facilities owned and operated by others to deliver the power we sell from our power plants to our customers. If transmission is disrupted, or if the transmission capacity infrastructure is inadequate, our ability to sell and deliver power to our customers may be adversely impacted and we may either incur additional costs or forego revenues. In addition, lack of access to new transmission capacity may affect our ability to develop new projects. Existing congestion of transmission capacity, as well as expansion of transmission systems and competition from other developers seeking access to expanded systems, could also affect our performance. 77 Table of Contents The aftermath of the recent global recession and its attendant credit constraints could adversely affect us. We may continue to experience lower levels of worldwide demand for energy, and face tighter credit markets, as the world economy continues to recover from the disruption in the global credit markets, failures or material business deterioration of investment banks, commercial banks, and other financial institutions and intermediaries in the United States and elsewhere around the world, concerns over European Union debt and currency crisis and significant reductions in asset values across businesses, households and individuals that led to the recent global recession. These conditions may adversely affect both our Electricity and Product Segments. Among other things, we might face: • potential adverse impacts on our ability to negotiate with existing lenders, waivers or modifications of the terms of existing financing arrangements if and when that might be necessary; • potential declines in revenues in our Product Segment due to reduced or postponed orders or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers and prospective customers; and • potential adverse impacts on our customers’ ability to pay, when due, amounts payable to us and related increases in our cost of capital associated with any increased working capital or borrowing needs we may have if this occurs, or to collect amounts payable to us in full (or at all) if any of our customers fail or seek protection under applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws. Any of these things could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results, and cash flow. We may be unable to obtain the financing we need to pursue our growth strategy and any future financing we receive may be less favorable to us than our current financing arrangements, either of which may adversely affect our ability to expand our operations. Most of our geothermal power plants generally have been financed using leveraged financing structures, consisting of non-recourse or limited recourse debt obligations. As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately $1,025.0 million of total consolidated indebtedness, of which approximately $476.8 million represented non-recourse debt and limited recourse debt held by our subsidiaries. Each of our projects under development or construction and those projects and businesses we may seek to acquire or construct will require substantial capital investment. Our continued access to capital with acceptable terms is necessary for the success of our growth strategy. Our attempts to obtain future financings may not be successful or on favorable terms. Market conditions, including those described in the previous risk factor, and other factors may not permit future project and acquisition financings on terms similar to those our subsidiaries have previously received. Our ability to arrange for financing on a substantially non-recourse or limited recourse basis, and the costs of such financing, are dependent on numerous factors, including general economic conditions, conditions in the global capital and credit markets (as discussed above), investor confidence, the continued success of current power plants, the credit quality of the power plants being financed, the political situation in the country where the power plant is located, and the continued existence of tax and securities laws which are conducive to raising capital. If we are not able to obtain financing for our power plants on a substantially non-recourse or limited-recourse basis, we may have to finance them using recourse capital such as direct equity investments, parent company loans or the incurrence of additional debt by us. Also, in the absence of favorable financing options, we may decide not to build new plants or acquire facilities from third parties. Any of these alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects. 78 Table of Contents Our foreign power plants expose us to risks related to the application of foreign laws, taxes, economic conditions, labor supply and relations, political conditions, and policies of foreign governments, any of which risks may delay or reduce our ability to profit from such power plants. We have substantial operations outside of the United States that generated revenues in the amount of $187.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, which represented 42.9% of our total revenues for such twelve-month period. Our foreign operations are subject to regulation by various foreign governments and regulatory authorities and are subject to the application of foreign laws. Such foreign laws or regulations may not provide for the same type of legal certainty and rights, in connection with our contractual relationships in such countries, as are afforded to our power plants in the United States, which may adversely affect our ability to receive revenues or enforce our rights in connection with our foreign operations. Furthermore, existing laws or regulations may be amended or repealed, and new laws or regulations may be enacted or issued. In addition, the laws and regulations of some countries may limit our ability to hold a majority interest in some of the power plants that we may develop or acquire, thus limiting our ability to control the development, construction and operation of such power plants. Our foreign operations are also subject to significant political, economic and financial risks, which vary by country, and include: • changes in government policies or personnel; • changes in general economic conditions; • restrictions on currency transfer or convertibility; • changes in labor relations; • political instability and civil unrest; • changes in the local electricity market; • breach or repudiation of important contractual undertakings by governmental entities; and • expropriation and confiscation of assets and facilities. In particular, in Guatemala the electricity sector was partially privatized, and it is currently unclear whether further privatization will occur in the future. Such developments may affect our Amatitlan and Zunil power plants if, for example, they result in changes to the prevailing tariff regime or in the identity and creditworthiness of our power purchasers. In Nicaragua, subsidiaries of Union Fenosa, which are the off-takers of our Momotombo power plant, have been experiencing difficulties adjusting the tariffs charged to their customers, thus affecting their ability to pay for electricity they purchase from power generators. This may adversely affect our Momotombo power plant. In addition, recent sentiment in the country suggests increased opposition to the presence of foreign investors generally, including in the electricity sector. In Kenya, the government is continuing to make an effort to deliver on campaign promises to reduce the price of electricity and is applying pressure on IPPs to lower their tariffs. In addition, further re-organization of KPLC has been made with the formation of a new company known as KETRACO to undertake power transmission. KPLC will continue to undertake power distribution. This re-organization is in accordance with the National Energy Policy (Sessional Paper No. 4 of 2004). No announcement has been made as to whether KPLC’s transmission assets will be transferred to KETRACO. In addition, the state owned GDC has been formed and is operational. GDC is charged with the responsibility of geothermal assessment, drilling of steam wells and sale of steam to future IPPs and to KenGen for electricity generation. Any break-up and potential privatization of KPLC may adversely affect our Olkaria III complex. Although we generally obtain political risk insurance in connection with our foreign power plants, such political risk insurance does not mitigate all of the above-mentioned risks. In addition, insurance proceeds received pursuant to our political risk insurance policies, where applicable, may not be adequate to cover all losses sustained as a result of any covered risks and may at times be pledged in favor of the power plant lenders as collateral. Also, insurance may not be available in the future with the scope of coverage and in amounts of coverage adequate to insure against such risks and disturbances. 79 Table of Contents Our foreign power plants and foreign manufacturing operations expose us to risks related to fluctuations in currency rates, which may reduce our profits from such power plants and operations. Risks attributable to fluctuations in currency exchange rates can arise when any of our foreign subsidiaries borrow funds or incur operating or other expenses in one type of currency but receive revenues in another. In such cases, an adverse change in exchange rates can reduce such subsidiary’s ability to meet its debt service obligations, reduce the amount of cash and income we receive from such foreign subsidiary or increase such subsidiary’s overall expenses. In addition, the imposition by foreign governments of restrictions on the transfer of foreign currency abroad, or restrictions on the conversion of local currency into foreign currency, would have an adverse effect on the operations of our foreign power plants and foreign manufacturing operations, and may limit or diminish the amount of cash and income that we receive from such foreign power plants and operations. A significant portion of our net revenue is attributed to payments made by power purchasers under PPAs. The failure of any such power purchaser to perform its obligations under the relevant PPA or the loss of a PPA due to a default would reduce our net income and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. A significant portion of our net revenue is attributed to revenues derived from power purchasers under the relevant PPAs. Southern California Edison, Sierra Pacific Power Company and Nevada Power Company (subsidiaries of NV Energy), HELCO, and KPLC have accounted for 27.7%, 13.0%, 10.6%, and 8.0%, respectively, of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. Neither we nor any of our affiliates makes any representations as to the financial condition or creditworthiness of any purchaser under a PPA, and nothing in this annual report should be construed as such a representation. There is a risk that any one or more of the power purchasers may not fulfill their respective payment obligations under their PPAs. For example, as a result of the energy crisis in California in the early 2000s, Southern California Edison withheld payments it owed under various of its PPAs with a number of power generators (such as the Ormesa, Heber, and Mammoth power plants) payable for certain energy delivered between November 2000 and March 2001 under such PPAs until March 2002. If any of the power purchasers fails to meet its payment obligations under its PPAs, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Seasonal variations may cause significant fluctuations in our cash flows, which may cause the market price of our common stock to fall in certain periods. Our results of operations are subject to seasonal variations. This is primarily because some of our domestic power plants receive higher capacity payments under the relevant PPAs during the summer months, and due to the generally higher short run avoided costs in effect during the summer months. Some of our other power plants may experience reduced generation during warm periods due to the lower heat differential between the geothermal fluid and the ambient surroundings. Such seasonal variations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If our operating results fall below the public’s or analysts’ expectations in some future period or periods, the market price of our common stock will likely fall in such period or periods. Pursuant to the terms of some of our PPAs with investor-owned electric utilities in states that have renewable portfolio standards, the failure to supply the contracted capacity and energy thereunder may result in the imposition of penalties. Under the PPAs of our Burdette, Desert Peak 2, Galena 2, Galena 3, Jersey Valley, McGinness Hills, Tuscarora and North Brawley power plants, we may be required to make payments to the relevant power purchaser in an amount equal to such purchaser’s replacement costs for renewable energy relating to any shortfall amount of renewable energy that we do not provide as required under the PPA and which such power purchaser 80 Table of Contents is forced to obtain from an alternate source. Five of these nine plants were in commercial operation in 2011, and to date the shortfall amount has not been material. In addition, we may be required to make payments to the relevant power purchaser in an amount equal to its replacement costs relating to any renewable energy credits we do not provide as required under the relevant PPA. We may be subject to certain penalties, and we may also be required to pay liquidated damages if certain minimum performance requirements are not met under certain of our PPAs. With respect to the Brady PPA, we may also be required to pay liquidated damages of approximately $1.5 million (increased by the percent change in GNP deflator) to our power purchaser if the relevant power plant does not maintain availability of at least 85% during applicable peak periods. Any or all of these could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The short run avoided costs for our power purchasers may decline, which would reduce our power plant revenues and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Under a number of the PPAs for our power plants in California, the price that Southern California Edison pays for energy is based upon its SRAC, which are the incremental costs that it would have incurred had it generated the relevant electrical energy itself or purchased such energy from others. Under settlement agreements between Southern California Edison and a number of power generators in California that are Qualifying Facilities, including our subsidiaries, the energy price component payable by Southern California Edison has been fixed through April 2012 and thereafter will be based on Southern California Edison’s short run avoided costs, as determined by the CPUC. These short run avoided costs may vary substantially on a monthly basis, and are expected to be based primarily on natural gas prices for gas delivered to California as well as other factors. The levels of short run avoided cost prices paid by Southern California Edison may decline following the expiration date of the settlement agreements, which in turn would reduce our power plant revenues derived from Southern California Edison under our PPAs and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. In December 2010, a global settlement (Global Settlement) relating primarily to the purchase and payment obligations of investor-owned utilities to Qualifying Facilities was approved by the CPUC and became effective on November 23, 2011. Under the terms of the Global Settlement, existing Qualifying Facilities with “Legacy PPAs” (meaning any PPA that was in effect at the time the Global Settlement went into effect) will have the option to choose to enter into a “Legacy PPA Amendment” within 180 days of the effectiveness of the Global Settlement. The Legacy PPA Amendment will allow a Qualifying Facility to choose a pricing methodology option going forward from the “pricing effective date”, which in Ormat’s case will be the end of the fixed rate period that terminates April 2012 under a prior settlement agreement with Southern California Edison until December 31, 2014, after which the SRAC will be tied only to a formula with energy market heat rates. The pricing options include: (1) switching to a new SRAC methodology, which has fixed, declining heat rates, a variable O&M component, an adjustment based on location, and a price adjustment if GHG costs are imposed on the facility, all until December 31, 2014, after which the SRAC will be tied only to a formula with energy market heat rates; (2) the same formula specified in (1) above but with somewhat higher heat rates, no GHG cost adder and no location adjustment (for renewable resources); (3) the same formula specified in (1) above but with heat rates between options (1) and (2) and a fixed GHG payment of $20 per metric ton for allowances used by a facility until December 31, 2014; (4) the same pricing terms as (3) above, but tied to actual GHG costs imposed on a facility, capped at $12.50 per metric ton until December 31, 2014; or (5) a 90-day negotiation period to see if the parties can turn the PPA into a tolling agreement on agreed terms. This 90-day period has since expired. 81 Table of Contents If an existing Qualifying Facility chooses not to enter into a Legacy PPA Amendment, its pricing under the existing Legacy PPA will revert at the end of the current fixed rate period (meaning, in Ormat’s case, the one that ends April 2012) to the SRAC formula pricing specified in (1) above. The Global Settlement further provides that after July 1, 2015 if the term of a Qualifying Facility’s Legacy PPA expires, the utility will have no obligation to purchase power from the Qualifying Facility if the Qualifying Facility has a generating capacity in excess of 20 MW. Until July 1, 2015, a transition PPA will be available for Qualifying Facilities with Legacy PPAs that expire, which will incorporate the pricing structure outlined above. The investor-owned utilities have also agreed to conduct competitive solicitations for CHP Qualifying Facilities’ output (similar to the competitive solicitations available to renewable generators under the State’s Renewables Portfolio Standard program, but with various differences). There are also several other contracting options under the Global Settlement, including bilateral contracts with the investor-owned utilities. Qualifying Facilities below 20 MW will be entitled to a new standard offer PPA, with SRAC pricing and capacity payments as determined from time to time by the CPUC. The joint parties to the Global Settlement agreed that the utilities can go to FERC to obtain a waiver of the mandatory purchase obligation under PURPA for Qualifying Facilities above 20 MW and FERC has granted such waiver for these California utilities. Our existing PPAs with California investor-owned utilities are not affected by this waiver. If any of our domestic power plants loses its current Qualifying Facility status under PURPA, or if amendments to PURPA are enacted that substantially reduce the benefits currently afforded to Qualifying Facilities, our domestic operations could be adversely affected. Most of our domestic power plants are Qualifying Facilities pursuant to the PURPA, which largely exempts the power plants from the FPA, and certain state and local laws and regulations regarding rates and financial and organizational requirements for electric utilities. If any of our domestic power plants were to lose its Qualifying Facility status, such power plant could become subject to the full scope of the FPA and applicable state regulation. The application of the FPA and other applicable state regulation to our domestic power plants could require our operations to comply with an increasingly complex regulatory regime that may be costly and greatly reduce our operational flexibility. If a domestic power plant were to lose its Qualifying Facility status, it would become a public utility under the FPA, and the rates charged by such power plant pursuant to its PPAs would be subject to the review and approval of FERC. FERC, upon such review, may determine that the rates currently set forth in such PPAs are not appropriate and may set rates that are lower than the rates currently charged. In addition, FERC may require that some or all of our domestic power plants refund amounts previously paid by the relevant power purchaser to such power plant. Such events would likely result in a decrease in our future revenues or in an obligation to disgorge revenues previously received from our domestic power plants, either of which would have an adverse effect on our revenues. Even if a power plant does not lose its Qualifying Facility status, pursuant to a final rule issued by FERC for Qualifying Facility power plants above 20 MW, if a power plant’s PPA is terminated or otherwise expires, and the subsequent sales are not made pursuant to a state’s implementation of PURPA, that power plant will become subject to FERC’s ratemaking jurisdiction under the FPA. Moreover, a loss of Qualifying Facility status also could permit the power purchaser, pursuant to the terms of the particular PPA, to cease taking and paying for electricity from the relevant power plant or, consistent with FERC precedent, to seek refunds of past amounts paid. This could cause the loss of some or all of our revenues payable pursuant to the related PPAs, result in significant liability for refunds of past amounts paid, or otherwise impair the value of our power plants. If a power purchaser were to cease taking and paying for electricity or seek to obtain refunds of past amounts paid, there can be no assurance that the costs incurred in connection with the power plant could be recovered through sales to other purchasers or that we would have sufficient funds to make such payments. In addition, the loss of Qualifying Facility status would be an event of default under the financing arrangements currently in place for some of our power plants, which would enable the lenders to exercise their remedies and enforce the liens on the relevant power plant. 82 Table of Contents Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005, FERC also has the authority to prospectively lift the mandatory obligation of a utility under PURPA to offer to purchase the electricity from a Qualifying Facility if the utility operates in a workably competitive market. Existing PPAs between a Qualifying Facility and a utility are not affected. If, in addition to California, the utilities in the other regions in which our domestic power plants operate were to be relieved of the mandatory purchase obligation, they would not be required to purchase energy from the power plant in the region under Federal law upon termination of the existing PPA or with respect to new power plants, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our financial performance is significantly dependent on the successful operation of our power plants, which is subject to changes in the legal and regulatory environment affecting our power plants. All of our power plants are subject to extensive regulation and, therefore, changes in applicable laws or regulations, or interpretations of those laws and regulations, could result in increased compliance costs, the need for additional capital expenditures or the reduction of certain benefits currently available to our power plants. The structure of domestic and foreign federal, state and local energy regulation currently is, and may continue to be, subject to challenges, modifications, the imposition of additional regulatory requirements, and restructuring proposals. Our power purchasers or we may not be able to obtain all regulatory approvals that may be required in the future, or any necessary modifications to existing regulatory approvals, or maintain all required regulatory approvals. In addition, the cost of operation and maintenance and the operating performance of geothermal power plants may be adversely affected by changes in certain laws and regulations, including tax laws. Any changes to applicable laws and regulations could significantly increase the regulatory-related compliance and other expenses incurred by the power plants and could significantly reduce or entirely eliminate the revenues generated by one or more of the power plants, which in turn would reduce our net income and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The costs of compliance with environmental laws and of obtaining and maintaining environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation, which currently are significant, may increase in the future and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow; any non-compliance with such laws or regulations may result in the imposition of liabilities which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our power plants are required to comply with numerous domestic and foreign federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory environmental standards and to maintain numerous environmental permits and governmental approvals required for construction and/or operation. Some of the environmental permits and governmental approvals that have been issued to the power plants contain conditions and restrictions, including restrictions or limits on emissions and discharges of pollutants and contaminants, or may have limited terms. If we fail to satisfy these conditions or comply with these restrictions, or with any statutory or regulatory environmental standards, we may become subject to regulatory enforcement action and the operation of the power plants could be adversely affected or be subject to fines, penalties or additional costs. In addition, we may not be able to renew, maintain or obtain all environmental permits and governmental approvals required for the continued operation or further development of the power plants. As of the date of this report, we have not yet obtained certain permits and government approvals required for the completion and successful operation of power plants under construction or enhancement. In addition, a nearby municipality has informed our Amatitlan power plant that an additional building permit should be obtained from such municipality before construction commences. Our failure to renew, maintain or obtain required permits or governmental approvals, including the permits and approvals necessary for operating power plants under construction or enhancement, could cause our operations to be limited or suspended. Environmental laws, ordinances and regulations affecting us can be subject to change and such change could result in increased compliance costs, the need for additional capital expenditures, or otherwise adversely affect us. 83 Table of Contents We could be exposed to significant liability for violations of hazardous substances laws because of the use or presence of such substances at our power plants. Our power plants are subject to numerous domestic and foreign federal, regional, state and local statutory and regulatory standards relating to the use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances. We use isobutane, isopentane, industrial lubricants, and other substances at our power plants which are or could become classified as hazardous substances. If any hazardous substances are found to have been released into the environment at or by the power plants in concentrations that exceed regulatory limits, we could become liable for the investigation and removal of those substances, regardless of their source and time of release. If we fail to comply with these laws, ordinances or regulations (or any change thereto), we could be subject to civil or criminal liability, the imposition of liens or fines, and large expenditures to bring the power plants into compliance. Furthermore, in the United States, we can be held liable for the cleanup of releases of hazardous substances at other locations where we arranged for disposal of those substances, even if we did not cause the release at that location. The cost of any remediation activities in connection with a spill or other release of such substances could be significant. We believe that at one time there may have been a gas station located on the Mammoth complex site, but because of significant surface disturbance and construction since that time, further physical evaluation of the environmental condition of the former gas station site has been impractical. There may be soil or groundwater contamination and related potential liabilities of which we are unaware related to this site, which may be significant and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. We may not be able to successfully integrate companies which we may acquire in the future, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our strategy is to continue to expand in the future, including through acquisitions. Integrating acquisitions is often costly, and we may not be able to successfully integrate our acquired companies with our existing operations without substantial costs, delays or other adverse operational or financial consequences. Integrating our acquired companies involves a number of risks that could materially and adversely affect our business, including: • failure of the acquired companies to achieve the results we expect; • inability to retain key personnel of the acquired companies; • risks associated with unanticipated events or liabilities; and • the difficulty of establishing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, including accounting controls and procedures. If any of our acquired companies suffers customer dissatisfaction or performance problems, the same could adversely affect the reputation of our group of companies and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition, and we encounter competition from electric utilities, other power producers, and power marketers that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The power generation industry is characterized by intense competition from electric utilities, other power producers and power marketers. In recent years, there has been increasing competition in the sale of electricity, in part due to excess capacity in a number of U.S. markets and an emphasis on short-term or “spot” markets, and competition has contributed to a reduction in electricity prices. For the most part, we expect that power purchasers interested in long-term arrangements will engage in “competitive bid” solicitations to satisfy new capacity demands. This competition could adversely affect our ability to obtain PPAs and the price paid for electricity by the relevant power purchasers. There is also increasing competition between electric utilities. This 84 Table of Contents competition has put pressure on electric utilities to lower their costs, including the cost of purchased electricity, and increasing competition in the future will put further pressure on power purchasers to reduce the prices at which they purchase electricity from us. The reduction or elimination of government incentives related to solar power could cause the revenues we expect to derive from our solar power joint venture to decline. Today, the cost of solar power exceeds the cost of power furnished by the electric utility grid in most locations. As a result, federal, state and local government bodies in many countries have provided various incentives in the form of rebates, tax credits, mandated feed-in-tariffs and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar power products to promote the use of solar energy to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. These government economic incentives could be reduced or eliminated. Reductions in, or eliminations or expirations of, incentives related to solar power could result in decreased demand for solar power and adversely affect the revenues we expect to derive from our solar power joint venture in Israel. In the United States, a federal tax credit for solar power projects is currently scheduled to expire at the end of 2016. In addition, it is possible that the federal government could impose new tariffs on solar panels imported from China, as part of a trade complaint currently pending with the U.S. Department of Commerce and the International Trade Commission. We face competition from other companies engaged in the solar energy sector. The solar power market is intensely competitive and rapidly evolving. We compete with many companies that have longer operating histories in this sector, larger customer bases, and greater brand recognition, as well as, in some cases, significantly greater financial and marketing resources than us. In some cases, these competitors are vertically integrated in the solar energy sector, manufacturing Solar PV, silicon wafers, and other related products for the solar industry, which may give them an advantage in developing, constructing, owning and operating solar power projects. We do not represent a significant competitive presence in the solar power market. Our lack of experience in the Solar PV sector may affect our ability to successfully develop, construct, finance, and operate Solar PV power projects. The existence of a prolonged force majeure event or a forced outage affecting a power plant could reduce our net income and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The operation of our subsidiaries’ geothermal power plants is subject to a variety of risks discussed elsewhere in these risk factors, including events such as fires, explosions, earthquakes, landslides, floods, severe storms or other similar events. If a power plant experiences an occurrence resulting in a force majeure event, our subsidiary that owns that power plant would be excused from its obligations under the relevant PPA. However, the relevant power purchaser may not be required to make any capacity and/or energy payments with respect to the affected power plant or plant so long as the force majeure event continues and, pursuant to certain of our PPAs, will have the right to prematurely terminate the PPA. Additionally, to the extent that a forced outage has occurred, the relevant power purchaser may not be required to make any capacity and/or energy payments to the affected power plant, and if, as a result the power plant fails to attain certain performance requirements under certain of our PPAs, the purchaser may have the right to permanently reduce the contract capacity (and correspondingly, the amount of capacity payments due pursuant to such agreements in the future), seek refunds of certain past capacity payments, and/or prematurely terminate the PPA. As a consequence, we may not receive any net revenues from the affected power plant other than the proceeds from any business interruption insurance that applies to the force majeure event or forced outage after the relevant waiting period, and may incur significant liabilities in respect of past amounts required to be refunded. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, future results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 85 Table of Contents The existence of a force majeure event or a forced outage affecting the transmission system of the IID could reduce our net income and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. If the transmission system of the IID experiences a force majeure event or a forced outage which prevents it from transmitting the electricity from the Heber complex, the Ormesa complex or the North Brawley power plant to the relevant power purchaser, the relevant power purchaser would not be required to make energy payments for such non-delivered electricity and may not be required to make any capacity payments with respect to the affected power plant so long as such force majeure event or forced outage continues. Our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, from the power plants utilizing the IID transmission system, were approximately $102.2 million. The impact of such force majeure would depend on the duration thereof, with longer outages resulting in greater revenue loss. Some of our leases will terminate if we do not extract geothermal resources in “commercial quantities”, thus requiring us to enter into new leases or secure rights to alternate geothermal resources, none of which may be available on terms as favorable to us as any such terminated lease, if at all. Most of our geothermal resource leases are for a fixed primary term, and then continue for so long as geothermal resources are extracted in “commercial quantities” or pursuant to other terms of extension. The land covered by some of our leases is undeveloped and has not yet produced geothermal resources in “commercial quantities.” Leases that cover land which remains undeveloped and does not produce, or does not continue to produce, geothermal resources in commercial quantities and leases that we allow to expire, will terminate. In the event that a lease is terminated and we determine that we will need that lease once the applicable power plant is operating, we would need to enter into one or more new leases with the owner(s) of the premises that are the subject of the terminated lease(s) in order to develop geothermal resources from, or inject geothermal resources into, such premises or secure rights to alternate geothermal resources or lands suitable for injection. We may not be able to do this or may not be able to do so without incurring increased costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Our BLM leases may be terminated if we fail to comply with any of the provisions of the Geothermal Steam Act or if we fail to comply with the terms or stipulations of such leases, which may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Pursuant to the terms of our BLM leases, we are required to conduct our operations on BLM-leased land in a workmanlike manner and in accordance with all applicable laws and BLM directives and to take all mitigating actions required by the BLM to protect the surface of and the environment surrounding the relevant land. Additionally, certain BLM leases contain additional requirements, some of which relate to the mitigation or avoidance of disturbance of any antiquities, cultural values or threatened or endangered plants or animals. In the event of a default under any BLM lease, or the failure to comply with such requirements, or any non-compliance with any of the provisions of the Geothermal Steam Act or regulations issued thereunder, the BLM may, 30 days after notice of default is provided to our relevant project subsidiary, suspend our operations until the requested action is taken or terminate the lease, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Some of our leases (or subleases) could terminate if the lessor (or sublessor) under any such lease (or sublease) defaults on any debt secured by the relevant property, thus terminating our rights to access the underlying geothermal resources at that location. The fee interest in the land which is the subject of some of our leases (or subleases) may currently be or may become subject to encumbrances securing loans from third-party lenders to the lessor (or sublessor). Our rights as lessee (or sublessee) under such leases (or subleases) are or may be subject and subordinate to the rights of any such lender. Accordingly, a default by the lessor (or sublessor) under any such loan could result in a foreclosure on the underlying fee interest in the property and thereby terminate our leasehold interest and result in the shutdown of the power plant located on the relevant property and/or terminate our right of access to the underlying geothermal resources required for our operations. 86 Table of Contents In addition, a default by a sublessor under its lease with the owner of the property that is the subject of our sublease could result in the termination of such lease and thereby terminate our sublease interest and our right to access the underlying geothermal resources required for our operations. Current and future urbanizing activities and related residential, commercial, and industrial developments may encroach on or limit geothermal or Solar PV activities in the areas of our power plants, thereby affecting our ability to utilize access, inject and/or transport geothermal resources on or underneath the affected surface areas or construct and operate Solar PV facilities which require large areas of relatively flat land. Current and future urbanizing activities and related residential, commercial and industrial development may encroach on or limit geothermal activities in the areas of our power plants, thereby affecting our ability to utilize, access, inject, and/or transport geothermal resources on or underneath the affected surface areas. In particular, the Heber power plants rely on an area, which we refer to as the Heber Known Geothermal Resource Area or Heber KGRA, for the geothermal resource necessary to generate electricity at the Heber power plants. Imperial County has adopted a “specific plan area” that covers the Heber KGRA, which we refer to as the “Heber Specific Plan Area.” The Heber Specific Plan Area allows commercial, residential, industrial and other employment oriented development in a mixed-use orientation, which currently includes geothermal uses. Several of the landowners from whom we hold geothermal leases have expressed an interest in developing their land for residential, commercial, industrial or other surface uses in accordance with the parameters of the Heber Specific Plan Area. Currently, Imperial County’s Heber Specific Plan Area is coordinated with the cities of El Centro and Calexico. There has been ongoing underlying interest since the early 1990s to incorporate the community of Heber. While any incorporation process would likely take several years, if Heber were to be incorporated, the City of Heber could replace Imperial County as the governing land use authority, which, depending on its policies, could have a significant effect on land use and availability of geothermal resources and any future expansion of our Solar PV plant near the Heber complex. Current and future development proposals within Imperial County and the City of Calexico, applications for annexations to the City of Calexico, and plans to expand public infrastructure may affect surface areas within the Heber KGRA, thereby limiting our ability to utilize, access, inject and/or transport the geothermal resource on or underneath the affected surface area that is necessary for the operation of our Heber power plants, which could adversely affect our operations and reduce our revenues. Current transportation construction works and urban developments in the vicinity of our Steamboat complex of power plants in Nevada may also affect future permitting for geothermal operations relating to those power plants. Such works and developments include the extension of an interstate highway (to be named U.S. 580) by the Nevada Department of Transportation, the construction of a new casino hotel and other commercial or industrial developments on land in the vicinity of our Steamboat complex. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our success is largely dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel. In particular, our success depends on the continued efforts of Lucien Bronicki, Dita Bronicki and Yoram Bronicki, and other key employees. The loss of the services of any key employee could materially harm our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. Although to date we have been successful in retaining the services of senior management and have entered into employment agreements with Lucien Bronicki, Dita Bronicki and Yoram Bronicki, such members of our senior management may terminate their employment agreements without cause and with notice periods ranging from 30 to 180 days. In addition, while Lucien and Dita Bronicki have not indicated any plan to retire, they are 77 and 70 years old, respectively, and either of them may decide to retire at any time. We may also not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for our senior management or key employees if their services were no longer available. 87 Table of Contents Our power plants have generally been financed through a combination of our corporate funds and limited or non-recourse project finance debt and lease financing. If our project subsidiaries default on their obligations under such limited or non-recourse debt or lease financing, we may be required to make certain payments to the relevant debt holders and if the collateral supporting such leveraged financing structures is foreclosed upon, we may lose certain of our power plants. Our power plants have generally been financed using a combination of our corporate funds and limited- or non-recourse project finance debt or lease financing. Non-recourse project finance debt or lease financing refers to financing arrangements that are repaid solely from the power plant’s revenues and are secured by the power plant’s physical assets, major contracts, cash accounts and, in many cases, our ownership interest in the project subsidiary. Limited-recourse project finance debt refers to our additional agreement, as part of the financing of a power plant, to provide limited financial support for the power plant subsidiary in the form of limited guarantees, indemnities, capital contributions and agreements to pay certain debt service deficiencies. If our project subsidiaries default on their obligations under the relevant debt documents, creditors of a limited recourse project financing will have direct recourse to us, to the extent of our limited recourse obligations, which may require us to use distributions received by us from other power plants, as well as other sources of cash available to us, in order to satisfy such obligations. In addition, if our project subsidiaries default on their obligations under the relevant debt documents (or a default under such debt documents arises as a result of a cross-default to the debt documents of some of our other power plants) and the creditors foreclose on the relevant collateral, we may lose our ownership interest in the relevant project subsidiary or our project subsidiary owning the power plant would only retain an interest in the physical assets, if any, remaining after all debts and obligations were paid in full. Changes in costs and technology may significantly impact our business by making our power plants and products less competitive. A basic premise of our business model is that generating baseload power at geothermal power plants achieves economies of scale and produces electricity at a competitive price. However, traditional coal-fired systems and gas-fired systems may under certain economic conditions produce electricity at lower average prices than our geothermal plants. In addition, there are other technologies that can produce electricity, most notably fossil fuel power systems, hydroelectric systems, fuel cells, microturbines, windmills, Solar PV cells and Solar PV systems. Some of these alternative technologies currently produce electricity at a higher average price than our geothermal plants; however, research and development activities are ongoing to seek improvements in such alternate technologies and their cost of producing electricity is gradually declining. It is possible that advances will further reduce the cost of alternate methods of power generation to a level that is equal to or below that of most geothermal power generation technologies. If this were to happen, the competitive advantage of our power plants may be significantly impaired. Our expectations regarding the market potential for the development of recovered energy-based power generation may not materialize, and as a result we may not derive any significant revenues from this line of business. Demand for our recovered energy-based power generation units may not materialize or grow at the levels that we expect. We currently face competition in this market from manufacturers of conventional steam turbines and may face competition from other related technologies in the future. If this market does not materialize at the levels that we expect, such failure may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results, and cash flow. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our business. Our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our business. While we occasionally file patent applications, patents may not be issued on the basis of such applications or, if patents are issued, they may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In addition, any patents issued to us or for which we have use rights may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. 88 Table of Contents In order to safeguard our unpatented proprietary know-how, trade secrets and technology, we rely primarily upon trade secret protection and non-disclosure provisions in agreements with employees and others having access to confidential information. These measures may not adequately protect us from disclosure or misappropriation of our proprietary information. Even if we adequately protect our intellectual property rights, litigation may be necessary to enforce these rights, which could result in substantial costs to us and a substantial diversion of management attention. Also, while we have attempted to ensure that our technology and the operation of our business do not infringe other parties’ patents and proprietary rights, our competitors or other parties may assert that certain aspects of our business or technology may be covered by patents held by them. Infringement or other intellectual property claims, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, can be expensive and time-consuming and can divert management’s attention from our core business. Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism, cyber-attacks, or individuals and/or groups attempting to disrupt our business, or the businesses of third parties, may impact our operations in unpredictable ways and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. We are subject to the potentially adverse operating and financial effects of terrorist acts and threats, as well as cyber-attacks, including, among others, malware, viruses and attachments to e-mails, and other disruptive activities of individuals or groups. Our generation and transmission facilities, information technology systems and other infrastructure facilities and systems and physical assets, could be directly or indirectly affected by such activities. Terrorist acts or other similar events could harm our business by limiting our ability to generate or transmit power and by delaying the development and construction of new generating facilities and capital improvements to existing facilities. These events, and governmental actions in response, could result in a material decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair and insure our assets, and could adversely affect operations by contributing to the disruption of supplies and markets for geothermal and recovered energy. Such events could also impair our ability to raise capital by contributing to financial instability and lower economic activity. We operate in a highly regulated industry that requires the continued operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure. Despite our implementation of security measures, all of our technology systems (and any programs or data stored thereon or therein) are vulnerable to security breaches, failures, data leakage or unauthorized access due to such activities. Those breaches and events may result from acts of our employees, contractors or third parties. If our technology systems were to fail or be breached and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, and sensitive confidential and other data could be compromised, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. The implementation of security guidelines and measures and maintenance of insurance, to the extent available, addressing such activities could increase costs. These types of events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. In addition such events could require significant management attention and resources and could adversely affect our reputation among customers and the public. A disruption of transmission or the transmission infrastructure facilities of third parties could negatively impact our business. Because generation and transmission systems are part of an interconnected system, we face the risk of possible loss of business due to a disruption caused by the impact of an event on the interconnected system within our systems or within a neighboring system. Any such disruption could adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results and cash flow. 89 Table of Contents Possible fluctuations in the cost of construction, raw materials, and drilling may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, future results, and cash flow. Our manufacturing operations are dependent on the supply of various raw materials, including primarily steel and aluminum, and on the supply of various industrial equipment components that we use. We currently obtain all such materials and equipment at prevailing market prices. We are not dependent on any one supplier and do not have any long-term agreements with any of our suppliers. Future cost increases of such raw materials and equipment, to the extent not otherwise passed along to our customers, could adversely affect our profit margins. Conditions in and around Israel, where the majority of our senior management and all of our production and manufacturing facilities are located, may adversely affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our products or manage our power plants. Operations in Israel accounted for approximately 22.9%, 18.8%, and 29.7% of our operating expenses in the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively. Political, economic and security conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and the continued state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Negotiations between Israel and representatives of the Palestinian Authority in an effort to resolve the state of conflict have been sporadic and have failed to result in peace. The establishment in 2006 of a government in the Gaza territory by representatives of the Hamas militant group has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. At the end of December 2008, Israel engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas lasting for over three weeks, which involved additional missile strikes from the Gaza Strip into Israel and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in the proximity of the border with the Gaza Strip. Our production facilities in Israel are located approximately 26 miles from the border with the Gaza Strip. The recent political instability and civil unrest in the Middle East and North Africa as well as the recently increased tension between Iran and Israel have raised new concerns regarding security in the region and the potential for armed conflict or other hostilities involving Israel. We could be adversely affected by any such hostilities, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. In addition, the sale of products manufactured in Israel may be adversely affected in certain countries by restrictive laws, policies or practices directed toward Israel or companies having operations in Israel. In addition, some of our employees in Israel are subject to being called upon to perform military service in Israel, and their absence may have an adverse effect upon our operations. Generally, unless exempt, male adult citizens of Israel under the age of 41 are obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually. Additionally, all such citizens are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. These events and conditions could disrupt our operations in Israel, which could materially harm our business, financial condition, future results, and cash flow. If our parent defaults on its lease agreement with the Israel Land Administration, or is involved in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding, our rights and remedies under certain agreements pursuant to which we acquired our product business and pursuant to which we sublease our land and manufacturing facilities from our parent may be adversely affected. We acquired our business relating to the manufacture and sale of products for electricity generation and related services from our parent, Ormat Industries. In connection with that acquisition, we entered into a sublease with Ormat Industries for the lease of the land and facilities in Yavne, Israel where our manufacturing and 90 Table of Contents production operations are conducted and where our Israeli offices are located. Under the terms of our parent’s lease agreement with the Israel Land Administration, any sublease for a period of more than five years may require the prior approval of the Israel Land Administration. As a result, the initial term of our sublease with Ormat Industries is for a period of four years and eleven months beginning on July 1, 2004, extendable to twenty-five years less one day (which includes the initial term). The consent of the Israel Land Administration was obtained for a period of the shorter of (i) 25 years or (ii) the remaining period of the underlying lease agreement with the Israel Land Administration, which terminates between 2018 and 2047. We recently entered into a new lease agreement with Ormat Industries for the sublease of additional manufacturing facilities that were built adjacent to the existing facilities. The agreement will expire on the same date as the abovementioned agreement. If our parent were to breach its obligations to the Israel Land Administration under its lease agreement, the Israel Land Administration could terminate the lease agreement and, consequently, our sublease would terminate as well. As part of the acquisition described in the preceding paragraph, we also entered into a patent license agreement with Ormat Industries, pursuant to which we were granted an exclusive license for certain patents and trademarks relating to certain technologies that are used in our business. If a bankruptcy case were commenced by or against our parent, it is possible that performance of all or part of the agreements entered into in connection with such acquisition (including the lease of land and facilities described above) could be stayed by the bankruptcy court in Israel or rejected by a liquidator appointed pursuant to the Bankruptcy Ordinance in Israel and thus not be enforceable. Any of these events could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, future results, and cash flow. We are a holding company and our revenues depend substantially on the performance of our subsidiaries and the power plants they operate, most of which are subject to restrictions and taxation on dividends and distributions. We are a holding company whose primary assets are our ownership of the equity interests in our subsidiaries. We conduct no other business and, as a result, we depend entirely upon our subsidiaries’ earnings and cash flow. The agreements pursuant to which most of our subsidiaries have incurred debt restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to us prior to the satisfaction of other obligations, including the payment of operating expenses, debt service and replenishment or maintenance of cash reserves. In the case of some of our power plants that are owned jointly with other partners there may be certain additional restrictions on dividend distributions pursuant to our agreements with those partners. Further, if we elect to receive distributions of earnings from our foreign operations, we may incur United States taxes on account of such distributions, net of any available foreign tax credits. In all of the foreign countries where our existing power plants are located, dividend payments to us are also subject to withholding taxes. Each of the events described above may reduce or eliminate the aggregate amount of revenues we can receive from our subsidiaries. Some of our directors and executive officers who also hold positions with our parent may have conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving both companies. Three of our seven directors are directors and/or officers of Ormat Industries, namely Lucien Bronicki, Dita Bronicki and Yoram Bronicki. In addition, four of our executive officers are also executive officers of Ormat Industries. Specifically, our Chief Executive Officer and Director, Dita Bronicki, is the Chief Executive Officer of our parent; our Chief Financial Officer, Joseph Tenne, is the Chief Financial Officer of our parent; and our Senior Vice President — Contract Management and Corporate Secretary, Etty Rosner, is the Corporate Secretary of our parent. These directors and officers owe fiduciary duties to both companies and may have conflicts of interest on matters affecting both us and our parent, and in some circumstances may have interests adverse to our interests. 91 Table of Contents Our controlling stockholders may take actions that conflict with your interests. Ormat Industries Ltd. holds approximately 60% of our common stock. Bronicki Investments Ltd. holds approximately 35.1% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Ormat Industries Ltd. as of February 24, 2012 (35.1% on a fully diluted basis). Bronicki Investments Ltd. is a privately held Israeli company and is controlled by Lucien and Dita Bronicki. Because of these holdings, our parent company will be able to exercise control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors, amendment of our certificate of incorporation and approval of significant corporate transactions, and they will have significant control over our management and policies. The directors elected by these stockholders will be able to significantly influence decisions affecting our capital structure. This control may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. For example, our controlling stockholders will be able to control the sale or other disposition of our product business to another entity or the transfer of such business outside of the State of Israel; as such action requires the affirmative vote of at least 75% of our outstanding shares. The price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially and your investment may decline in value. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and may fluctuate substantially due to many factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations including as a result of seasonal variations in our electricity segment-based revenues or variations from year-to-year in our product segment-based revenues; • variance in our financial performance from the expectations of market analysts; • conditions and trends in the end markets we serve, and changes in the estimation of the size and growth rate of these markets; • announcements of significant contracts by us or our competitors; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • restatements of historical financial results and changes in financial forecasts; • loss of one or more of our significant customers; • legislation; • changes in market valuation or earnings of our competitors; • the trading volume of our common stock; and • general economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the NYSE and the market for energy companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies affected. These broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could materially harm our business, financial condition, future results, and cash flow. Future sales of common stock by some of our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. As of the date of this report, our parent, Ormat Industries Ltd., holds approximately 60% of our outstanding common stock and some of our directors, officers and employees also hold shares of our outstanding common 92 Table of Contents stock. Sales of such shares in the public market, as well as shares we may issue upon exercise of outstanding options, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. On November 10, 2004, we entered into a registration rights agreement with Ormat Industries whereby Ormat Industries may require us to register our common stock held by it or its directors, officers and employees with the SEC or to include our common stock held by it or its directors, officers and employees in an offering and sale by us. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent acquisition of us, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation and our bylaws contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors. These provisions do not permit actions by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, these provisions include procedural requirements relating to stockholder meetings and stockholder proposals that could make stockholder actions more difficult. Our Board of Directors is classified into three classes of directors serving staggered, three-year terms and may be removed only for cause. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors may be filled only by the vote of the majority of directors then in office. Our Board of Directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a “poison pill” that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our Board of Directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. The SOX Act imposes significant regulatory, corporate and operational requirements on the Company. Failure to comply with such provisions may have significant adverse consequences to the Company. As a public company, we are subject to the SOX Act. The SOX Act contains a variety of provisions affecting public companies, including but not limited to, corporate governance requirements, our relationship with our auditors, evaluation of our internal disclosure controls and procedures, and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting. See Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting and Item 9A. — “Controls and Procedures.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 