ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Financial Condition If we are unable to maintain our accounts receivable financing, we could face a deficiency in our short term cash needs that would negatively impact our business. We have secured an accounts receivable financing line of credit from an independent finance organization institution that allows us to sell selected accounts receivable invoices to the financial institution in the amount of $4 million. This provides us with the cash needed to finance certain costs and expenses. At December 31, 2009, we had financing availability, based on eligible accounts receivable, of $3.5 million under this line. We pay fees based on the length of time that the invoice remains unpaid. Our accounts receivable financing lender may decide to cease subsequent advances at any time in its discretion, upon our failure to meet certain contractual requirements or upon the occurrence of certain events or contingencies that are out of our control. In such event, our short-term cash req uirements may exceed available cash on hand resulting in material adverse consequences to our business. Risks Related to our Company and Business Because sales in consumer electronic accessories are dependent on new products, product development and consumer acceptance, we could experience sharp decreases in our sales and profit margin if we are unable to continually introduce new products and achieve consumer acceptance. Currently, we generate substantially all of our sales from our consumer and mobile electronics accessories business. We cannot assure you that we can grow the revenues of our business or maintain profitability. Our consumer accessories business depends, to a large extent, on the introduction and availability of innovative products and technologies. Significant sales of our products in the niche consumer electronic accessories market have fueled the recent growth of our business. We believe that our future success will depend in large partly upon our ability to enhance our existing products and to develop, introduce and market new products and improvements to our existing products. If we are not able to continually introduce new products that achieve consumer acceptance, our sales and profit margins may decline. Our revenues and profitability will depend on our ability to maintain and generate additional customers and develop new products. A reduction in demand for our existing products would have a material adverse effect on our business. The sustainability of current levels of our business and the future growth of such revenues, if any, will depend on, among other factors: § the overall performance of the economy and discretionary consumer spending, § competition within key markets, § customer acceptance of newly developed products and services, and § the demand for other products and services. We cannot assure you that we will maintain or increase our current level of revenues or profits from sales from the consumer and mobile electronics accessories business in future periods. While we are pursuing and will continue to pursue product development opportunities, there can be no assurance that such products will come to fruition or become successful. Furthermore, while a number of those products are being tested, we cannot provide any definite date by which they will be commercially available. We cannot provide assurance that these products will prove to be commercially viable. We may experience operational problems with such products after commercial introduction that could delay or defeat the ability of such products to generate revenue or operating profits. Future operational problems could increase our costs, delay our plans or adversely affect our reputation or our sales of other products which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our success and our ability to satisfy our obligations. We cannot predict which of the many possible future products will meet evolving industry standards and consumer demands. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to adapt to such technological changes, offer such products on a timely basis or establish or maintain a competitive position. 7 Because we face intense competition, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources than ours, if we are unable to compete effectively with these companies, our market share may decline and our business could be harmed. Our market is highly competitive with numerous competitors. Some of our competitors may have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we possess, which may afford them competitive advantages over us. As a result, our competitors may introduce products that have advantages over our products in terms of features, functionality, ease of use, and revenue producing potential. They may also have more fully developed sales channels for consumer sales including large retail seller arrangements and international distribution capabilities. In addition, new companies may enter the markets in which we compete, further increasing competition in the consumer electronics accessories industry. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in pric e reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development and marketing of new products, which would adversely impact the trading price of our common shares. Because we are dependent on a third party source to acquire sufficient quantities of raw materials to produce our products, any interruption in that relationship could harm our results of operations and our revenues. We acquire substantially all of our raw materials that we use in our products from two suppliers. Accordingly, we can give no assurance that: § our supplier relationships will continue as presently in effect, § our suppliers will not become competitors, § our suppliers will be able to obtain the components necessary to produce high-quality, technologically-advanced products for us, § we will be able to obtain adequate alternatives to our supply sources should they be interrupted, § if obtained, alternatively sourced products of satisfactory quality would be delivered on a timely basis, competitively priced, comparably featured or acceptable to our customers, and § our suppliers have sufficient financial resources to fulfill its obligations. Our inability to supply sufficient quality and quantities of products that are in demand could reduce our profitability and have a material adverse effect on our relationships with our customers. If our supplier relationship was terminated or interrupted, we could experience an immediate or long-term supply shortage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Because we do not develop the technology for our products or conduct research into advancing the quality of our products, the impact of technological advancements may cause price erosion and adversely impact our profitability and inventory value Since we do not make any of our own products and do not conduct our own research, we cannot assure you that we will be able to source technologically advanced products in order to remain competitive. Furthermore, the introduction or expected introduction of new products or technologies may depress sales of existing products and technologies. This may result in declining prices and inventory obsolescence. Since we maintain a substantial investment in product inventory, declining prices and inventory obsolescence could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our estimates of excess and obsolete inventory may prove to be inaccurate; in which case the provision required for excess and obsolete inventory may be understated or overstated. Although we make every effort to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or technological developments could have a significant impact on the value of our inventory and operating results. 8 If we fail to maintain proper inventory levels, our business could be harmed. We produce our products prior to the time we receive customers’ orders. We do this to minimize purchasing costs, the time necessary to fill customer orders and the risk of non-delivery. However, we may be unable to sell the products we have produced in advance. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in inventory write-downs, and the sale of excess inventory at discounted prices could significantly impair our brand image and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our products or if we fail to produce the quality products that we require at the time we need them, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might delay shipments to customers, negatively impact distributor relationships, and diminish brand loyalty. Because we are dependent for our success on key executive officers, our inability to retain these officers would impede our business plan and growth strategies, which would have a negative impact on our business and the value of your investment. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our management team including Mr. Robert G. Pedersen II, our CEO, and Brandon T. O’Brien, our CFO. We do not have an employment agreement with Mr. Pedersen or Mr. O’Brien. We do not have employment agreements with any other members of our senior management team. Each of those individuals without long-term employment agreements may voluntarily terminate his employment with the Company at any time upon short notice. Were we to lose one or more of these key executive officers, we would be forced to expend significant time and money in the pursuit of a replacement, which would result in both a delay in the implementation of our business plan and the diversion of working capital. We can give you no assurance that we can find satisfactory replacements fo r these key executive officers at all, or on terms that are not unduly expensive or burdensome to our company. Although we intend to issue stock options or other equity-based compensation to attract and retain employees, such incentives may not be sufficient to attract and retain key personnel. We do not have minimum purchase quantities from our customers in our customer contracts. Sales of our products are made by written purchase orders and are terminable at will by either party. The unexpected loss of all or a significant portion of sales to any one of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our performance. If we fail to attract, train and retain sufficient numbers of our qualified personnel, our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to attract, retain and motivate skilled and qualified personnel. Failure to attract and retain necessary technical personnel, sales and marketing personnel and skilled management could adversely affect our business. If we fail to attract, train and retain sufficient numbers of these highly qualified people, our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. If our products contain defects, our reputation could be harmed and our results of operations adversely affected. Some of our products may contain undetected defects due to imperfections in the underlying base materials used for our invisibleSHIELD product line, or manufacturing defects related to our audio and charging products. The occurrence of defects or malfunctions could result in financial losses for our customers and in turn increased warranty claims from our customers and diversion of our resources. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and loss of sales. Because we experience seasonal and quarterly fluctuations in demand for our products, no one quarter is indicative of our results of operations for the entire fiscal year. Our quarterly results may fluctuate quarter to quarter as a result of market acceptance of our products, the mix, pricing and presentation of the products offered and sold, the hiring and training of additional personnel, the timing of inventory write downs, the cost of materials, the incurrence of other operating costs and factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions and actions of competitors. We are also affected by seasonal buying cycles of consumers, such as the holiday season, and the introduction of popular consumer electronics, such as a new introduction of products from Apple Corporation. Accordingly, the results of operations in any quarter will not necessarily be indicative of the results that may be achieved for a full fiscal year or any future quarter. 9 Because we have limited protection on the intellectual property underlying our products, we may not be able to protect our products from the infringement of others and may be prevented from marketing our products. We do not own proprietary rights with respect to the film we use in our products. We have a patent pending with respect to the covering of electronic devices with clear protective films. In addition, we own and keep confidential the design configurations of the film and the product cut designs which are our copyrights. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and partners. However, no assurance can be given that such measures will be sufficient to protect our intellectual property rights or that the intellectual property rights that we have are sufficient to protect other persons from creating and marketing substantially similar products. If we cannot protect our rights, we may lose our competitive advantage. Moreover, if it is determined that our products infri nge on the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may be prevented from marketing our products. Any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, or require us to either enter into royalty or license agreements which are not advantageous to us or pay material amounts of damages. In addition, parties making these claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from selling our products. The current economy is depressing consumer spending patterns, which could adversely affect our business. Consumer spending patterns, especially discretionary spending for products such as mobile, consumer and accessory electronics, are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, energy costs, raw material costs, wage rates, inflation, interest rates, consumer debt consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. A general slowdown in the U.S. and certain international economies or an uncertain economic outlook could have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. The recent disruptions in the national and international economies and financial markets and the related increases in unemployment are depressing consumer confidence and spending. If such conditions persist, consumer spending will likely decline further and this would have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. We intend to grow our business by expanding our sales, administrative and marketing organizations. Any growth in or expansion of our business is likely to continue to place a strain on our management and administrative resources, infrastructure and systems. As with other growing businesses, we expect that we will need to refine and expand our business development capabilities, our systems and processes and our access to financing sources. We also will need to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. These processes are time consuming and expensive, will increase management responsibilities and will divert management attention. We cannot assure you that we will be able to: § expand our systems effectively or efficiently or in a timely manner; § allocate our human resources optimally; § meet our capital needs; § identify and hire qualified employees or retain valued employees; or § incorporate effectively the components of any business or product line that we may acquire in our effort to achieve growth. Our inability or failure to manage our growth and expansion effectively could harm our business and materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 10 If our competitors misappropriate our proprietary know-how and trade secrets, it could have a material adverse affect on our business. We depend heavily on the expertise of our production team. If any of our competitors copies or otherwise gains access to similar products independently, we might not be able to compete as effectively. The measures we take to protect our designs may not be adequate to prevent their unauthorized use. Further, the laws of foreign countries may provide inadequate protection of such intellectual property rights. We may need to bring legal claims to enforce or protect such intellectual property rights. Any litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and diversions of resources. In addition, notwithstanding the rights we have secured in our intellectual property, other persons may bring claims against us that we have infringed on their intellectual property rights or claims that our intellectual property rig ht interests are not valid. Any claims against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming and costly to defend or litigate and therefore could have an adverse affect on our business. If our facilities were to experience catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. Our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss from fire, flood, earthquake or terrorist activity. All of our activities, including manufacturing, our corporate headquarters and other critical business operations are in one location. Any catastrophic loss at this facility could disrupt our operations, delay production, and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. While we have obtained insurance to cover most potential losses, we cannot assure you that our existing insurance coverage will be adequate against all other possible losses. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered effective, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting as of the end of each fiscal year, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in our annual report on Form 10-K for that fiscal year. Our management, including our chief executive officer and principal financial officer, does not expect that our internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud involving a company have been, or will be, detected. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become ineffective because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies or procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. We cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting would require manageme nt and our independent registered public accounting firm to consider our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal controls over financial reporting are not considered effective, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our independent registered public accountant, Hansen, Barnett & Maxwell, P.C., was required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to audit or give an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls. While our internal controls did not have any identified material weaknesses for the year ended December 31, 2009, Hansen, Barnett & Maxwell, P.C. will be required to audit the effectiveness of our internal controls and determine whether any material deficiencies exist in the future. There is a risk that Hansen, Barnett & Maxwell, P.C. will not be able to determine that we maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over our financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. In addition to the risk that Hansen, Barnett & Maxwell, P.C. may not be able to determine that we maintained effective internal controls, any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, or other effective improvement of our internal controls could harm our operating results. 11 Because we distribute products internationally, economic, political and other risks associated with our international sales and operations could adversely affect our operating results. Since we sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our sales to customers outside the United States accounted for approximately 15% of our revenue from continuing operations in fiscal 2009. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: § changes in foreign currency exchange rates; § exchange controls; § changes in regulatory requirements; § changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions; § tariffs, other trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; § potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws or application of such tax laws; § difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; § changing labor regulations; § requirements relating to withholding taxes on remittances and other payments by subsidiaries; § different regimes controlling the protection of our intellectual property; § restrictions on our ability to own or operate subsidiaries, make investments or acquire new businesses in these jurisdictions; and § restrictions on our ability to repatriate dividends from our subsidiaries. Our international operations are affected by global economic and political conditions. Changes in economic or political conditions in any of the countries in which we operate could result in exchange rate movement, new currency or exchange controls or other restrictions being imposed on our operations. Risks Related to the Company’s Securities Because the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile our shareholders may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price paid for such shares. The price for shares of our common stock has exhibited high levels of volatility with significant volume and price fluctuations, which makes our common stock unsuitable for many investors. For example, for the two years ended December 31, 2009, the closing price of our common stock ranged from a high of $7.55 to a low of $0.60 per share. At times, the fluctuations in the price of our common stock may have been unrelated to our operating performance. These broad fluctuations may negatively impact the market price of shares of our common stock. The price of our common stock may also have been influenced by: § fluctuations in our results of operations or the operations of our competitors or customers; § the aggregate amount of our outstanding debt and perceptions about our ability to make debt service payments; § failure of our results of operations and sales revenues to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors; § reductions in demand or expectations regarding future demand by our customers; § changes in stock market analyst recommendations regarding us, our competitors or our customers; § the timing and announcements of technological innovations, new products or financial results by us or our competitors; § increases in the number of shares of our common stock outstanding; and § changes in our industry. Based on the above, we expect that our stock price will continue to be extremely volatile. Therefore, we cannot guarantee that our investors will be able to resell our common stock at or above the price at which they purchased it. 12 Because we may, at some time in the future, issue additional securities, shareholders are subject to dilution of their ownership. Although we have no plans to raise additional capital, we may at some time in the future do so. Any such issuance would likely dilute shareholders’ ownership interest in our company and may have an adverse impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, from time to time we may issue shares of common stock in connection with equity financing activities or as incentives to our officers and business partners. We may expand the number of shares available under stock incentive and option plans, or create new plans. All issuances of common stock would be dilutive to your holdings in our company. If your holdings are diluted, the overall value of your shares may be diminished and your ability to influence shareholder voting will also be harmed. If our common stock fails to meet the listing requirements of NASDAQ and is delisted from trading on the NASDAQ, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol “ZAGG”. The NASDAQ’s listing requirements include a requirement that, for continued listing, an issuer’s common shares trade at a minimum bid price of $1.00 per share. This requirement is deemed breached when the bid price of an issuer’s common shares closes below $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days. Our stock is not currently trading at below $1.00, and closed at $3.92 at December 31, 2009. If we were to trade below $1.00 for 30 consecutive days, we may transfer our stock listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market following receipt of a notice of delisting and receive an additional six month grace period to regain compliance, take certain other actions to increase our stock price prior to bein g delisted from NASDAQ or otherwise challenge any action by NASDAQ to delist our common stock. There can be no assurance that these actions will be successful in maintaining our listing on NASDAQ or the trading market for our stock. A delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ or a transfer to the Capital Market tier of NASDAQ could adversely affect the liquidity of the trading market for our stock and therefore the market price of our common stock. Limitations on director and officer liability and indemnification of our officers and directors by us may discourage stockholders from bringing suit against a director. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws provide, with certain exceptions as permitted by governing state law, that a director or officer shall not be personally liable to us or our stockholders for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for acts or omissions which involve intentional misconduct, fraud or knowing violation of law, or unlawful payments of dividends. These provisions may discourage stockholders from bringing suit against a director for breach of fiduciary duty and may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation brought by stockholders on our behalf against a director. In addition, our articles of incorporation and bylaws may provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by governing state law. Because we do not expect to pay dividends for the foreseeable future, investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to support the development and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our payment of any future dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including but not limited to our financial condition, operating results, cash needs, growth plans and the terms of any credit agreements that we may be a party to at the time. In addition, our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited by state law. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their Common Stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize their investment. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer own or control at least 20% of our outstanding common stock, which may limit your ability and the ability of our other stockholders, whether acting alone or together, to propose or direct the management or overall direction of our company. Additionally, this concentration of ownership could discourage or prevent a potential takeover of our Company that might otherwise result in shareholders receiving a premium over the market price for our shares. We estimate that approximately 20% of our outstanding shares of common stock are owned and controlled by our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer. Such concentrated control of our company may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our principal stockholders may be able to control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors, mergers or other business combinations. Such concentrated control may also make it difficult for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock in the event we merge with a third party or enter into different transactions which require stockholder approval. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stoc k. Accordingly, the existing principal stockholders together with our directors and executive officers will have the power to control the election of our directors and the approval of actions for which the approval of our stockholders is required. If you acquire shares, you may have no effective voice in the management of the Company. 13 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 