D. Risk Factors The following risks relate principally to the industries in which we operate and our business in general. Any of the risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industries The international tanker and drybulk industries are both cyclical and volatile and this may lead to reductions and volatility in our charter rates when we re-charter our vessels, vessel values and our results of operations The international tanker and drybulk industries in which we operate are cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates, vessel values and industry profitability. For both tankers and drybulk vessels, the degree of charter rate volatility among different types of vessels has varied widely. If we enter into a charter when charter rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. In addition, a decline in charter hire rates likely will cause the value of our vessels to decline. Our current fleet deployment consists mainly of long term time charters and long term bareboat charters which limits significantly our exposure to charter rate volatility and its effect on our result of operations. We are nonetheless exposed to changes in spot rates for one of our drybulk vessels that do not have long term charter coverage. Additionally, changes in spot rates in the tanker sector and the drybulk sector can affect the value of respective vessels at any given time despite the existence of long term employment contracts. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of their current time and bareboat charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the tanker and drybulk market. The factors affecting the supply and demand for our vessels are outside our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in tanker and drybulk industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for tanker and drybulk vessel capacity include: • demand for refined petroleum products and crude oil for tankers and drybulk commodities for drybulk vessels; • changes in crude oil production and refining capacity as well as drybulk commodity production and resulting shifts in trade flows for crude oil, petroleum product and drybulk commodities; • the location of regional and global crude oil refining facilities and drybulk commodities markets that affect the distance refined petroleum products and crude oil or drybulk commodities are to be moved by sea; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • the location of regional and global crude oil refining facilities and drybulk commodities markets that affect the distance refined petroleum products and crude oil or drybulk commodities are to be moved by sea; • environmental and other regulatory developments; 6 • currency exchange rates; and • weather. The factors that influence the supply of oceangoing vessel capacity include: • the number of newbuilding deliveries; • the scrapping rate of older vessels; • the price of steel; • vessel casualties; • potential conversion of vessels to alternative use; • changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; • port or canal congestion; • the number of vessels that are out of service at a given time; and • changes in global crude oil and drybulk commodity production. The international tanker and drybulk shipping industries have experienced drastic downturns after experiencing historically high charter rates and vessel values in the recent past, and a continued downturn in these markets may have an adverse effect on our earnings, impair the carrying value of our vessels and affect compliance with our loan covenants. The Baltic Drybulk Index, or BDI, a U.S. dollar daily average of charter rates issued by the London based Baltic Exchange (an organization providing maritime market information for the trading and settlement of physical and derivative contracts) that takes into account input from brokers around the world regarding fixtures for various routes, dry cargoes and various drybulk vessel sizes, declined from a high of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 663 in December 2008, which represents a decline of 94%. The BDI fell over 70% during the month of October alone. The decline in charter rates is due to various factors, including the lack of trade financing for purchases of commodities carried by sea, which has resulted in a significant decline in cargo shipments, and the excess supply of iron ore in China, which has resulted in falling iron ore prices and increased stockpiles in Chinese ports. The decline in charter rates in the drybulk market also affects the value of our drybulk vessels, which follows the trends of drybulk charter rates, and earnings on our charters, and similarly, affects our cash flows, liquidity and compliance with the covenants contained in our loan agreements. The BDI has since risen to 4,026 as of June 17, 2009. However, there can be no assurance that the drybulk charter market will continue to experience recovery over the next several months and the market could decline from its current level. 7 The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a U.S. dollar daily average of charter rates issued by the London based Baltic Exchange that takes into account input from brokers around the world regarding crude oil fixtures for various routes various tanker vessel sizes, declined from a high of 2,347 in July 2008 to a low of 453 in mid-April 2009, which represents a decline of 80%. The Baltic Clean Tanker Index has fallen over 1,160 points, or 77%, since the early summer of 2008. The decline in charter rates is due to various factors, including the significant fall in demand for crude oil and petroleum products, the consequent rising inventories of crude oil and petroleum products in the United States and in other industrialized nations and the corresponding reduction in oil refining, the dramatic fall in the price of oil in 2008, and the restrictions on crude oil production that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other non-OPEC oil producing countries have imposed in an effort to stabilize the price of oil. If the current low charter rates in the tanker and drybulk market continue through a significant period, our earnings may be adversely affected and we may have to record impairment adjustments to the carrying values of our fleet, and we may not be able to maintain compliance with the financial covenants in our loan agreements even though we have received waivers for certain breaches as discussed in "Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review And Prospects - Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations – Long term debt". In such a situation, unless our lenders were willing to provide modifications to waivers of covenant compliance or modifications to our covenants, in order to remain viable, we would sell vessels in our fleet and/or seek to raise additional capital in the equity markets. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours, and we may not be able to obtain our lenders' permission or waivers when needed. This may limit our ability to continue to conduct our operations, finance our future operations, make acquisitions or pursue business opportunities. A decline in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with environmental laws or regulations may adversely affect our operations. The shipping industry in general and our business and the operation of tankers and drybulk vessels in particular, are affected by a variety of governmental regulations in the form of numerous international conventions, national, state and local laws and international, national and local regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which such tankers and drybulk vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries in which such tankers and drybulk vessels are registered. These regulations include: • the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, which imposes strict liability for the discharge of oil into the 200-mile United States exclusive economic zone, the obligation to obtain certificates of financial responsibility for vessels trading in United States waters and the requirement that newly constructed tankers that trade in United States waters be constructed with double-hulls; • the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, as amended in 2000, or the CLC, entered into by many countries (other than the United States) relating to strict liability for pollution damage caused by the discharge of oil; • the International Maritime Organization, or IMO (the United Nations agency for maritime safety and the prevention of pollution by ships), International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the related Protocol of 1978 relating thereto, or the MARPOL Convention, which has been updated through various amendments, with respect to strict technical and operational requirements for tankers; • the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, or SOLAS Convention, with respect to crew and passenger safety; 8 • the International Convention on Load Lines, 1966, or LL Convention, with respect to the safeguarding of life and property through limitations on load capability for vessels on international voyages; and • the United States Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002, or MTSA. More stringent maritime safety rules have been imposed in Europe as a result of the oil spill off the coast of France in November 2002 relating to the loss of the M/T Prestige, a 26-year old single-hull tanker owned by a company not affiliated with us. Additional laws and regulations may also be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our vessel operations. In the event of war or national emergency, our tankers and drybulk vessels may be subject to requisition by the government of the flag flown by the tanker or drybulk vessel without any guarantee of compensation for lost profits. We believe our vessels are maintained in good condition in compliance with present regulatory requirements, are operated in compliance with applicable safety/environmental laws and regulations and are insured against usual risks for such amounts as our management deems appropriate. Our vessels' operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during each vessel's required annual survey. However, government regulation of tankers and drybulk vessels, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental impact, may change in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our ships to keep them in compliance. Under local, national and foreign laws, as well as international treaties and conventions, we could incur material liabilities, including cleanup obligations, natural resource damages and third-party claims for personal injury or property damages, in the event that there is a release of petroleum or other hazardous substances from our vessels or otherwise in connection with our current or historic operations. We could also incur substantial penalties, fines and other civil or criminal sanctions, including in certain instances seizure or detention of our vessels, as a result of violations of or liabilities under environmental laws, regulations and other requirements. For example, OPA affects all vessel owners shipping oil to, from or within the United States. OPA allows for potentially unlimited liability for owners, operators and bareboat charterers of vessels without regard to fault for oil pollution in United States waters. Similarly, the CLC, which has been adopted by most countries outside of the United States, imposes liability for oil pollution in international waters. OPA expressly permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to hazardous materials and oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries. Coastal states in the United States have enacted pollution prevention liability and response laws, many providing for unlimited liability. Future accidents may be expected in the shipping industry, and such accidents or other events may be expected to result in the adoption of even stricter laws and regulations, which could limit our operations or our ability to do business and which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 9 Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels or we may be required to write down their carrying value, which will adversely affect our earnings. Current market conditions have caused a decrease in the fair market value of our vessels. The fair market value of our vessels may increase and decrease depending on the following factors: • general economic and market conditions affecting the international tanker and drybulk shipping industries; • prevailing level of charter rates; • competition from other shipping companies; • types, sizes and ages of vessels; • other modes of transportation; • cost of newbuildings; • price of steel; • governmental or other regulations; and • technological advances. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before an impairment is identified, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount in our financial statements, or if vessel prices have fallen below the carrying amount in our financial statements, in which case we evaluate the asset for a potential impairment and may be required to write down the carrying amount of the vessels on our financial statements and incur a loss and a reduction in earnings, if the estimate of undiscounted cash flows, excluding interest charges, expected to be generated by the use of the asset is less than its carrying amount. An increase in the supply of vessel capacity without an increase in demand for vessel capacity would likely cause charter rates and vessel values to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels, conversion of vessels to other uses, such as floating production and storage facilities, and loss of tonnage as a result of casualties. Currently there is significant new building activity with respect to virtually all sizes and classes of vessels. If the amount of tonnage delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, vessel capacity will increase. If the supply of vessel capacity increases faster than the demand for vessel capacity, the charter rates paid for our vessels as well as the value of our vessels could materially decline. Such a decline in charter rates and vessel values would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. 10 Our operating results from our tankers are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our operating results. Eight of the vessels in our combined fleet are tankers. We operate our tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, therefore, charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The tanker sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of oil and petroleum products in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, our revenues from our tankers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could materially affect our results from operations. Disruptions in world financial markets and the resulting governmental action in the United States and in other parts of the world could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline. Over the last year, global financial markets have experienced extraordinary disruption and volatility following adverse changes in the global credit markets. The credit markets in the United States have experienced significant contraction, deleveraging and reduced liquidity, and governments around the world have taken significant measures in response to such events, including the enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 in the United States, and may implement other significant responses in the future. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges have enacted temporary emergency regulations and may take other extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies and may effect permanent changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. Recently, a number of financial institutions have experienced serious financial difficulties and, in some cases, have entered into bankruptcy proceedings or are in regulatory enforcement actions. These difficulties have resulted, in part, from declining markets for assets held by such institutions, particularly the reduction in the value of their mortgage and asset-backed securities portfolios. These difficulties have been compounded by a general decline in the willingness by banks and other financial institutions to extend credit. In addition, these difficulties may adversely affect the financial institutions that provide our credit facilities and may impair their ability to continue to perform under their financing obligations to us, which could have an impact on our ability to fund current and future obligations, including our ability to take delivery of our newbuildings. We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates and instability in securities markets around the world, among other factors. Major market disruptions and the current adverse changes in market conditions and regulatory climate in the United States and worldwide may adversely affect our business or impair our ability to borrow amounts under our credit facilities or any future financial arrangements. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows and could cause the price of shares of our common stock to decline significantly or impair our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. 11 Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Our vessels are currently enrolled with the American Bureau of Shipping, Lloyd's Register of Shipping, Det Norske Veritas and Bureau Veritas each of which is a member of the International Association of Classification Societies. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be placed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be dry docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If a vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable, which will negatively impact our revenues and results from operations. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. Given current market conditions, we seek to deploy our vessels on time and bareboat charters in a manner that will help us achieve a steady flow of earnings. As of the date of this report, three of our tanker vessels and four of our drybulk vessels were contractually committed to time charters, and five of our tanker vessels and one of our drybulk vessels were contractually committed to bareboat charters. Although these period charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue as well as a portion of the revenues generated by the charterer's deployment of the vessels in the spot market or otherwise, our vessels committed to period charters may not be available for spot voyages during an upturn in the tanker or drybulk industry cycle, as the case may be, when spot voyages might be more profitable. The spot market is highly competitive, and spot market charter rates may fluctuate dramatically based on the supply and demand for the major commodities carried internationally by water as well as other factors. As of the date of this report, we did not have any vessels that were trading in the spot market. If we cannot continue to employ our vessels on profitable time charters or trade them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow may suffer if rates achieved are not sufficient to cover respective vessel operating and financial expenses. World events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004 and in London on July 7, 2005 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain any additional financing or, if we are able to obtain additional financing, to do so on terms favorable to us. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 Acts of piracy on oceangoing vessels have recently increased in frequency, which could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected oceangoing vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea and the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Throughout 2008 and 2009, the frequency of piracy incidents against commercial shipping vessels increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden. For example, in November 2008 the M/T Sirius Star, a tanker not affiliated with us, was captured by pirates in the Indian Ocean while carrying crude oil estimated to be worth $100.0 million. Since the beginning of 2009, numerous tanker and drybulk vessels have fallen victim to piracy attacks off the coast of Somalia. For example, in February 2009, the M/V Saldanha, a drybulk vessel not affiliated with us, was seized by pirates while transporting coal through the Gulf of Aden. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as "war risk" zones, as the Gulf of Aden temporarily was in May 2008, or Joint War Committee (JWC) "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such insurance coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. Crew costs, including those due to employing onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. In addition, while we believe the charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not "on-hire" for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in such respects as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year plans, or State Plans, are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through State Plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by changes to these economic reforms by the Chinese government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of the Chinese government, such as changes in laws, regulations or export and import restrictions, all of which could, adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 13 A further economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations We anticipate a significant number of the port calls made mainly by our drybulk vessels will continue to involve the loading or discharging of drybulk commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, negative changes in economic conditions in any Asia Pacific country, particularly in China, may exacerbate the effect of recent slowdowns in the economies of the United States and the European Union and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. In recent years, China has been one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, which has had a significant impact on shipping demand. Through the end of the fourth quarter of 2008, growth in China's gross domestic product was approximately 4.2% lower than it was during the same period in 2007, and it is likely that China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region will continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the near future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. China has recently announced a $586.0 billion stimulus package aimed in part at increasing investment and consumer spending and maintaining export growth in response to the recent slowdown in its economic growth. Our business, financial condition and, results of operations as well as our future prospects, will likely be materially and adversely affected by a further economic downturn in any of these countries. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our vessels call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the United States government. From time to time, our time charterers or bareboat charterers who make use of our vessels in our fleet may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the United States government as state sponsors of terrorism. Although these sanctions and embargoes do not prevent our vessels from making calls to ports in these countries, potential investors could view such port calls negatively, which could adversely affect our reputation and the market for shares of our common stock. Investor perception of the value of shares of our common stock may be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. 14 Risks Related to Our Company We are in breach of certain financial covenants contained in our loan agreements, have received notices from certain of our lenders regarding these covenant breaches, and if we are not successful in obtaining waivers and amendments with respect to covenants breached, our lenders may declare an event of default and accelerate our outstanding indebtedness under the relevant agreement, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. Our loan agreements require that we maintain certain financial and other covenants. The current low drybulk and tanker charter rates and respective drybulk and tanker vessel values have affected our ability to comply with covenants relating to vessel values such as asset cover ratio, adjusted net worth and net asset value covenants. A violation of these covenants constitutes an event of default under our credit facilities, which would, unless waived by our lenders, provide our lenders with the right to require us to post additional collateral, enhance our equity and liquidity, increase our interest payments, pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants, sell vessels in our fleet, reclassify our indebtedness as current liabilities and accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. Our total indebtedness of $342.5 million is presented within current liabilities in our audited consolidated balance sheet for the year ended December 31, 2008 included in this annual report as a result of cross-default provisions within our loan agreements. A cross-default provision means that if we are in default with regards to a specific loan then we are automatically in default of all our loans that contain such provisions. For this reason, we are not able to breakdown our debt obligations into current and long term, unless we are able to receive waivers for all covenants breaches. The amount of long term debt that has been reclassified from long term debt and presented together with current liabilities amounts to $290.0 million. Several of our lenders notified us that we are in breach of certain financial and other covenants relating to vessel values such as asset cover ratio, adjusted net worth and net asset value covenants (as defined by each bank) contained in our loan agreements. As of the date of this annual report, we have received certain waivers on these covenant breaches from HSH Nordbank and Alpha Bank until March 31, 2010. In addition, we are in the process of drafting amendments to our agreements with DVB and Emporiki Bank regarding covenant breaches and we are in negotiations with RBS with regards to covenant breaches. For more details on breaches and waivers see "Item 5 – Operating and Financial Review And Prospects - - Tabular Disclosure of Contractual Obligations – Long term debt". During 2009, we expect to be in breach of covenants relating to the minimum liquidity and EBITDA as defined by each bank. Breach of our loan covenants, without applicable waiver, may entitle our lenders to accelerate our debt. If our indebtedness is accelerated, it would be very difficult in the current financing environment for us to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and we could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens. Further, as discussed below, our independent registered public accounting firm has issued its opinion with an explanatory paragraph emphasizing that we have prepared our financial statements under the going concern assumption despite our covenants breaches and working capital deficit. 15 Our inability to comply with certain financial and other covenants under our loan agreements raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As discussed above, we are in breach of certain financial and other covenants contained in our loan agreements as a result of the decline in the drybulk and tanker charter markets and related decline in vessel values. We may be unable to meet the financial and other covenants contained in our loan agreements for the foreseeable future and our lenders may choose to accelerate our indebtedness. Therefore, our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on management's ability to successfully generate revenue to meet our obligations as they become due and have the continued support of our lenders. Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued its opinion with an explanatory paragraph emphasizing that we have prepared our financial statements under the going concern assumption despite our covenants breaches and working capital deficit. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of our inability to continue as a going concern. However, there is a material uncertainty related to events or conditions which raises significant doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern and, therefore, we may be unable to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. If we need to receive waivers and/or amendments to our loan agreements in the future, our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us and/or modify the terms of our existing loan agreements. In addition to certain financial covenants relating to our financial position, operating performance and liquidity, in connection with future waivers or amendments that we may need, lenders may impose additional restrictions on us. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Breach of Loan Covenants." Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours and we may not be able to obtain our lender's permission when needed, which could prevent us from pursuing a course of action that we deem necessary. In addition to the above restrictions, our lenders may require the payment of additional fees, require prepayment of a portion of our indebtedness to them, or impose other conditions on the issuance of waivers, which could adversely affect our financial results and hinder our ability to raise capital. Servicing current and future debt will limit funds available for other purposes and impair our ability to react to changes in our business. To finance our fleet expansion program, we incurred secured indebtedness. We must dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. As of December 31, 2008, we had total indebtedness of $346.9 million (excluding unamortized deferred financing fees of $4.4 million), and a ratio of indebtedness to total capital of approximately 54%. We will need to take on additional indebtedness as we expand our fleet, which could increase our debt to equity ratio. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of, our indebtedness. Our substantial debt could also have other significant consequences. For example, it could: • increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion, if not all, of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; 16 • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt or better access to capital; • limit our ability to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all; and • adversely impact our ability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the notes and the credit agreements governing the debts of our subsidiaries, which could result in an event of default under such agreements. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because some of the debt under the credit facilities of our subsidiaries is variable rate debt. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. Our loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities. Our loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness; • create liens on our assets; • sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; • engage in mergers or acquisitions; • pay dividends; • make capital expenditures or other investments; • change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and • sell our vessels. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share. We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our growth will depend on: • locating and acquiring suitable vessels; • identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; 17 • integrating any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; • enhancing our customer base; • managing expansion; and • obtaining required financing. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant additional expenses and losses in connection therewith. If the recent volatility in LIBOR continues, it could affect our profitability, earnings and cash flow. The London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, has recently been volatile, with the spread between LIBOR and the prime lending rate widening significantly at times. These conditions are the result of the recent disruptions in the international credit markets. Because the interest rates borne by our outstanding indebtedness fluctuate with changes in LIBOR, if this volatility were to continue, it would affect the amount of interest payable on our debt, which in turn, could have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Furthermore, interest in most loan agreements in our industry has been based on published LIBOR rates. Recently, however, lenders have insisted on provisions that entitle the lenders, in their discretion, to replace published LIBOR as the base for the interest calculation with their cost-of-funds rate. If we are required to agree to such a provision in future loan agreements, our lending costs could increase significantly, which would have an adverse effect on our profitability, earnings and cash flow. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. We may not be able to renew our time charters when they expire. We might not be able to renew our existing time charters or, if renewed, they might not be at favorable rates. If, upon expiration of the existing time charters, we are unable to obtain time charters or voyage charters at desirable rates, our profitability may be adversely affected. 18 In the highly competitive international tanker and drybulk shipping markets, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. The operation of tanker and drybulk vessels and the transportation of cargoes shipped in these vessels, as well as the shipping industry in general, is extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker and drybulk shipping companies, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of oil and refined petroleum products and drybulk cargoes can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets than us. We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We have historically derived a significant part of our revenue from a small number of charterers. In 2007 and 2008, approximately 33% and 26%, respectively, of our revenue was derived from two charterers. These two charterers, Glencore and PDVSA, respectively provided 23% and 10% of our revenues in 2007 and 17% and 9% of our revenues in 2008. The occurrence of any problems with these charterers may adversely affect our revenues. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the international tanker and drybulk shipping industries, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. We have entered into employment contracts with our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director, Evangelos Pistiolis, our Chief Financial Officer and Director, Alexandros Tsirikos, our Executive Vice President and Director, Vangelis Ikonomou and our Vice President Demetris Souroullas. Our success will depend upon our ability to hire and retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not intend to maintain ''key man'' life insurance on any of our officers. As we expand our business, we will need to improve our operations and financial systems and staff; if we cannot improve these systems or recruit suitable employees, our performance may be adversely affected. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we implement our plan to expand the size of our fleet, and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our performance may be adversely affected. Risks involved with operating oceangoing vessels could affect our business and reputation, which would adversely affect our revenues and stock price. The operation of an oceangoing vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: • marine disaster; 19 • piracy; • environmental accidents; • cargo and property losses or damage; and • mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting, and could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an oil spill or other environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator. If one of our vessels were involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental contamination, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Delays in deliveries of our vessels could harm our operating results. The delivery of our last newbuilding product tanker could be delayed, which would affect our results of operations and financial condition. We expend substantial sums during construction of newbuildings without assurance that they will be completed. We are typically required to expend substantial sums as progress payments during construction of a newbuilding, but we do not derive any revenue from the vessel until after its delivery. If we are unable to obtain financing required to complete payments on our newbuilding orders, we could effectively forfeit all or a portion of the progress payments previously made. As of December 31, 2008, we had six newbuildings on order with deliveries scheduled during 2009. As of December 31, 2008, progress payments made towards these newbuildings totaled $152.0 million. To fund the remaining portion of existing or future capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from operations or incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, which could limit our financial flexibility and ability to pursue other business opportunities. 20 Due to market conditions, we may not take delivery of our newbuildings or may sell them at a loss. Since the highs reached during the summer of 2008, vessel values in both the drybulk and tanker industries have declined significantly. Some, if not all, of our newbuildings have also declined in value from the price we have agreed to pay for such newbuildings. If such vessel values remain depressed or decline further, we may choose to terminate our contract with the shipyard, which may result in termination payments in addition to any forfeiture of payments already made, or we may sell the newbuildings on the market at a loss, which might also include addtional payments. Either of these scenarios would affect our cash flow and financial condition. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, operating expense for many of our shipping operations when our vessels are not under period charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility, resulting in vessel downtime. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover. The inactivity of these vessels while they are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or we may be forced to move to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while our vessels are forced to wait for space or to relocate to drydocking facilities that are farther away from the routes on which our vessels trade would decrease our earnings. A drop in spot charter rates may provide an incentive for some charterers to default on their charters. When we enter into a time or bareboat charter, charter rates under that charter are fixed for the term of the charter. If the spot charter rates in the tanker or drybulk shipping industry, as applicable, become significantly lower than the time charter equivalent rates that some of our charterers are obligated to pay us under our existing charters, the charterers may have incentive to default under that charter or attempt to renegotiate the charter. If our charterers fail to pay their obligations, we would have to attempt to re-charter our vessels at lower charter rates, which would affect our ability to comply with our loan covenants and operate our vessels profitably. If we are not able to comply with our loan covenants and our lenders choose to accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens, we could be required to sell vessels in our fleet and our ability to continue to conduct our business would be impaired. 21 The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. Our current operating fleet has an average age of approximately nine years. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions might not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. While we rigorously inspect previously owned, or secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Also, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if the vessels we buy are older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. As of the date of this report, six of the tanker vessels in our fleet were more than 10 years of age. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions might not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we sell vessels, the price for which we sell them might be lower than their carrying amount at that time which would result in a loss. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels. We procure insurance for our fleet against those types of risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. These insurances include hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, war risk insurance and insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel. While we currently have loss of hire insurance that covers, subject to annual coverage limits, all of the vessels in our fleet, we may not purchase loss of hire insurance to cover newly acquired vessels. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible as well as, limitations and exclusions which may nevertheless increase our costs or lower our revenue. 22 Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the ''sister ship'' theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any ''associated'' vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert ''sister ship'' liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our ships. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could negatively impact our revenues should we not receive adequate compensation. Certain existing stockholders, who hold approximately 36.97% of our common stock, may have the power to exert control over us, which may limit your ability to influence our actions. As of June 24, 2009, Sovereign Holdings Inc., or Sovereign Holdings, a company that is wholly owned by our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Evangelos J. Pistiolis, and Kingdom Holdings Inc., or Kingdom Holdings, a company owned primarily by adult relatives of Mr. Pistiolis, own, directly or indirectly, approximately 13.17% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, Sphinx Investment Corp., Maryport Navigation Corp. and Mr. George Economou own 13.99% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. QVT Financial LP, QVT Financial GP LLC and QVT Associates GP LLC own 9.81% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Sphinx Investment Corp., Maryport Navigation Corp., QVT Financial LP, QVT Financial GP LLC and QVT Associates GP LLC are entities owned and controlled by unaffiliated third parties. Together, these existing shareholders own 36.97% of our common stock. While these shareholders have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of their shares of common stock, due to the number of shares of our common stock they own, they have the power to exert considerable influence over our actions. Our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director, Mr. Evangelos Pistiolis, has affiliations with a private shipping company which could create conflicts of interest. The family of our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director, Mr. Evangelos Pistiolis, owns a private shipping company. This relationship could create conflicts of interest between us, on the one hand, and this private shipping company, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the chartering, purchase, sale and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus tankers and drybulk vessels managed by this private shipping company. For example, Mr. Pistiolis may give preferential treatment to vessels that are beneficially owned by this private shipping company because Mr. Pistiolis and members of his family may receive greater economic benefits. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we have taken this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. Therefore, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a 4% United States federal income tax on our United States source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business. 23 United States tax authorities could treat us as a ''passive foreign investment company,'' which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a ''passive foreign investment company,'' or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of ''passive income'' or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of ''passive income.'' For purposes of these tests, ''passive income'' includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute ''passive income.'' United States shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. As of March 2009, 67% of the average value of our fleet was employed under bareboat charters that produce passive income. If our fleet and charter composition remains the same, we would likely be treated as a PFIC for our 2009 taxable year. Nevertheless, it is management's intention to take necessary steps in order to avoid PFIC status as this would have negative tax consequences for our investors. Remedial actions could involve the sale of passive income producing vessels or the purchase of non passive income producing assets. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute ''passive income,'' and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. We believe there is substantial legal authority supporting our position consisting of case law and United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, pronouncements concerning the characterization of income derived from time charters and voyage charters as services income for other tax purposes. However, we note that there is also authority which characterizes time charter income as rental income rather than services income for other tax purposes. Accordingly, there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, there is a risk that we could constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations or if our vessels continue to be bareboat chartered. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States shareholders will face adverse United States tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under ''Tax Considerations— United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders''), such shareholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our common stock. See ''Tax Considerations— United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders'' for a more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences to United States shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur approximately 16% of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars, mainly Euros. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular, the Euro. During 2008, the Euro appreciated versus the US dollar more than it ever has for the past five years, reaching almost 1.6 US dollars to 1 Euro during the summer of 2008. Should the Euro further appreciate relative to the U.S. dollar in future periods, our expenses will increase in U.S dollar terms, thereby decreasing our net income. We have not hedged these risks. Our operating results could suffer as a result. 24 Risks Relating to Our Common Shares There is no guarantee of a continuing public market for you to resell our common shares. Our common shares commenced trading on the Nasdaq National Market, now the Nasdaq Global Select Market, in July 2004. An active and liquid public market for our common shares may not continue. The price of our common shares may be volatile and may fluctuate due to factors such as: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; • mergers and strategic alliances in the drybulk shipping industry; • market conditions in the drybulk shipping industry and the general state of the securities markets; • changes in government regulation; • shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; and • announcements concerning us or our competitors. You may not be able to sell your common shares in the future at the price that you paid for them or at all. In addition, if the price of our common shares falls below $1.00, we may be involuntarily delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Future sales of our common shares could cause the market price of our common shares to decline Sales of a substantial number of our common shares in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the market price for our common shares. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of our equity securities in the future. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Security holder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our security holders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would security holders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. 25 A small number of our stockholders effectively control the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote. Entities affiliated with Mr. Evangelos Pistiolis, our Chief Executive Officer, currently own, directly or indirectly, approximately 9.57% of our outstanding common stock as of June 24, 2009. In addition, entities affiliated with Mr. George Economou currently own, directly or indirectly, approximately 13.99% of our outstanding common stock as of June 24, 2009. While, as far as we are aware, those stockholders have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of their shares of our common stock, they will effectively control the outcome of matters on which our stockholders are entitled to vote, including the election of directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of these stockholders may be different from your interests. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, amalgamation or acquisition, which could reduce the market price of our common shares. Several provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our board of directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: • authorizing our board of directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock without shareholder approval; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered, three-year terms; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote for the directors; • prohibiting shareholder action by written consent unless the written consent is signed by all shareholders entitled to vote on the action; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; and • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, we have entered into a Stockholder Rights Agreement that will make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of our board of directors and principal shareholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may reduce the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely and may fluctuate widely in the future The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely since our common shares and warrants began trading in the Nasdaq National Market, now the Nasdaq Global Select Market, in July 2004. 26 ITEM 