D. Risk Factors The following risks relate principally to the industries in which we operate and our business in general. Any of these risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of our common stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY The international tanker and drybulk shipping industries have experienced drastic downturns after experiencing historically high charter rates and vessel values in early 2008, and a continued downturn in these markets may have an adverse effect on our earnings, impair the carrying value of our vessels and affect compliance with our loan covenants. The Baltic Drybulk Index, or BDI, is a U.S. dollar daily average of charter rates that takes into account input from brokers around the world regarding fixtures for various routes, dry cargoes and various drybulk vessel sizes and is issued by the London-based Baltic Exchange (an organization providing maritime market information for the trading and settlement of physical and derivative contracts). The BDI declined from a high of 11,793 in May 2008 to a low of 647 as of February 3, 2012, but has since modestly risen to 928 as of April 5, 2012. The decline in charter rates was due to various factors, including the lack of trade financing for purchases of commodities carried by sea, which resulted in a significant decline in cargo shipments, and the excess supply of iron ore in China, which resulted in falling iron ore prices and increased stockpiles in Chinese ports and vessel oversupply. The decline in charter rates in the drybulk market affected the earnings, the value and, following periodic impairment reviews, the carrying value of our drybulk vessels. As a result, this decline negatively affected asset values, cash flows and liquidity and hence compliance with the covenants contained in our loan agreements. The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a U.S. dollar daily average of charter rates issued by the Baltic Exchange that takes into account input from brokers around the world regarding crude oil fixtures for various routes and tanker vessel sizes, declined from a high of 2,347 in July 2008 to a low of 453 in mid-April 2009, which represents a decline of 80%. The index rose to 1,216 on January 15, 2010, but has since dropped again to 820 as of April 5, 2012. The Baltic Clean Tanker Index fell from 1,509 points as of June 19, 2008, to 345 points as of April 4, 2009. The index rose to 908 as of December 23, 2011, but has since dropped again to 639 as of April 5, 2012. The dramatic decline in charter rates was due to various factors, including the significant fall in demand for crude oil and petroleum products, the consequent rising inventories of crude oil and petroleum products in the United States and in other industrialized nations and the corresponding reduction in oil refining, the dramatic fall in the price of oil in 2008, and the restrictions on crude oil production that OPEC and other non-OPEC oil producing countries have imposed in an effort to stabilize the price of oil. During 2009 and 2010, the above-mentioned factors affecting the Baltic Dirty and Clean Tanker Indices partially subsided, allowing for the modest recovery of rates and a stabilization of tanker vessel values; however, tanker vessel oversupply has suppressed any increase in rates or values due to increases in crude oil or oil product demand. 5 A further decline in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the charter rates in the tanker and drybulk market decline from their current levels, our future earnings may be adversely affected and we may have to record impairment adjustments to the carrying values of our fleet, and we may not be able to comply with the financial covenants in our loan agreements. The international tanker and drybulk industries are both cyclical and volatile and this may lead to reductions and volatility in our charter rates when we re-charter our vessels, vessel values and our results of operations. The international tanker and drybulk industries in which we operate are cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates, vessel values and industry profitability. For both tankers and drybulk vessels, the degree of charter rate volatility among different types of vessels has varied widely. If we enter into a charter when charter rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. In addition, a decline in charter hire rates likely will cause the value of our vessels to decline. We currently employ our tankers on long-term bareboat charters and our drybulk carrier on the spot market. As a result, we are exposed to charter rate volatility in the drybulk segment. This may affect our result of operations. Changes in spot rates and time charters can not only affect the revenues we receive from operations, but can also affect the value of our vessels, even if they are employed under long-term time charters. Our ability to re-charter our vessels on the expiration or termination of their current time and bareboat charters and the charter rates payable under any renewal or replacement charters will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the tanker and drybulk market. Fluctuations in charter rates and vessel values result from changes in the supply and demand for vessel. The factors affecting the supply and demand for our vessels are outside our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in tanker and drybulk industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for tanker and drybulk vessel capacity include: ● supply and demand for (i) refined petroleum products and crude oil for tankers and (ii) drybulk commodities for drybulk vessels; ● changes in (i) crude oil production and refining capacity and (ii) drybulk commodity production and resulting shifts in trade flows for crude oil and petroleum products and trade flows of drybulk commodities; ● the location of regional and global crude oil refining facilities and drybulk commodities markets that affect the distance commodities are to be moved by sea; ● global and regional economic and political conditions, including developments in international trade, fluctuations in industrial and agricultural production, and armed conflicts, terrorist activities and strikes; ● environmental and other legal and regulatory developments; ● currency exchange rates; 6 ● weather, natural disasters, and other acts of God, including hurricanes and typhoons; ● competition from alternative sources of energy and for other shipping companies and other modes of transportation; and ● international sanctions, embargoes, import and export restrictions, nationalizations, piracy and wars. The factors that influence the supply of ocean-going vessel capacity include: ● the number of newbuilding deliveries; ● current and expected purchase orders for vessels; ● the scrapping rate of older vessels; ● vessel freight rates; ● the price of steel and vessel equipment; ● technological advances in the design and capacity of vessels; ● potential conversion of vessels to alternative use; ● changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; ● port or canal congestion; ● the number of vessels that are out of service at a given time; and ● changes in global crude oil and drybulk commodity production. If economic conditions throughout the world do not improve, it will impede our operations. Negative trends in the global economy that emerged in 2008 continue to adversely affect global economic conditions. In addition, the world economy is currently facing a number of new challenges, including uncertainty related to the continuing discussions in the United States regarding the federal debt ceiling and recent turmoil and hostilities in the Middle East, North Africa and other geographic areas and countries. There has historically been a strong link between the development of the world economy and demand for energy, including oil and gas. An extended period of deterioration in the outlook for the world economy could reduce the overall demand for oil and gas and for our services. Such changes could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The United States, the European Union and other parts of the world have recently been or are currently in a recession and continue to exhibit weak economic trends. The credit markets in the United States and Europe have experienced significant contraction, de-leveraging and reduced liquidity, and the U.S. federal government and state governments and European authorities have implemented and are considering a broad variety of governmental action and/or new regulation of the financial markets. Securities and futures markets and the credit markets are subject to comprehensive statutes, regulations and other requirements. The Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, and other regulators, self-regulatory organizations and exchanges are authorized to take extraordinary actions in the event of market emergencies, and may effect changes in law or interpretations of existing laws. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, severely disrupted and volatile. Credit markets and the debt and equity capital markets have been exceedingly distressed. 7 We face risks attendant to changes in economic environments, changes in interest rates, and instability in the banking and securities markets around the world, among other factors. We cannot predict how long the current market conditions will last. However, these recent and developing economic and governmental factors, together with the concurrent decline in charter rates and vessel values, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and may cause the price of our common stock to decline. The current state of the global financial markets and current economic conditions may adversely impact our ability to obtain financing on acceptable terms and otherwise negatively impact our business. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile. Recently, operating businesses in the global economy have faced tightening credit, weakening demand for goods and services, deteriorating international liquidity conditions, and declining markets. There has been a general decline in the willingness by banks and other financial institutions to extend credit, particularly in the shipping industry, due to the historically volatile asset values of vessels. As the shipping industry is highly dependent on the availability of credit to finance and expand operations, it has been negatively affected by this decline. Also, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has increased as many lenders have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at all or on terms similar to current debt and reduced, and in some cases ceased, to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that financing will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or we may be unable to enhance our existing business, complete additional vessel acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. If the current global economic environment persists or worsens, we may be negatively affected in the following ways: ● we may not be able to employ our vessels at charter rates as favorable to us as historical rates or at all or operate our vessels profitably; and ● the market value of our vessels could decrease, which may cause us to recognize losses if any of our vessels are sold or if their values are impaired. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Our operations are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the form of international conventions and treaties, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which our vessels operate or are registered, which can significantly affect the ownership and operation of our vessels. These regulations include, but are not limited to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, or MARPOL, the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969, generally referred to as CLC, the International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage, or Bunker Convention, the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, the International Safety Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code, the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships' Ballast Water and Sediments, or the BWM Convention, the U.S. Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, the U.S. Clean Water Act, the U.S. Clean Air Act, the U.S. Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act, the U.S. Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or the MTSA, and European Union regulations. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards, where applicable, may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes and may affect the resale value or useful lives of our vessels. We may also incur additional costs in order to comply with other existing and future regulatory obligations, including, but not limited to, costs relating to air emissions, the management of ballast waters, maintenance and inspection, development and implementation of emergency procedures and insurance coverage or other financial assurance of our ability to address pollution incidents. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. A failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. 8 Environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA, for example, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Furthermore, the 2010 explosion of the Deepwater Horizon and the subsequent release of oil into the Gulf of Mexico, or other events, may result in further regulation of the shipping industry, and modifications to statutory liability schemes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. An oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties and criminal liability and remediation costs for natural resource damages under other federal, state and local laws, as well as third-party damages. We are required to satisfy insurance and financial responsibility requirements for potential oil (including marine fuel) spills and other pollution incidents. Although we have arranged insurance to cover certain environmental risks, there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to cover all such risks or that any claims will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends, if any, in the future. We are subject to international safety regulations and requirements imposed by classification societies and the failure to comply with these regulations may subject us to increased liability, may adversely affect our insurance coverage and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports. The operation of our vessels is affected by the requirements set forth in the United Nations' International Maritime Organization's International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and Pollution Prevention, or ISM Code. The ISM Code requires ship owners, ship managers and bareboat charterers to develop and maintain an extensive "Safety Management System" that includes the adoption of a safety and environmental protection policy setting forth instructions and procedures for safe operation and describing procedures for dealing with emergencies. Currently, all of our vessels are ISM Code-certified and we expect that any vessels that we acquire in the future will be ISM Code-certified when delivered to us. The failure of a shipowner or bareboat charterer to comply with the ISM Code may subject it to increased liability, may invalidate existing insurance or decrease available insurance coverage for the affected vessels and may result in a denial of access to, or detention in, certain ports, including United States and European Union ports. In addition, the hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. If a vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable, which will negatively impact our revenues and results from operations. 9 Climate change and greenhouse gas restrictions may adversely impact our operations and markets. Due to concern over the risk of climate change, a number of countries and the IMO have adopted, or are considering the adoption of, regulatory frameworks to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. These regulatory measures may include, among others, adoption of cap and trade regimes, carbon taxes, increased efficiency standards, and incentives or mandates for renewable energy. In addition, although the emissions of greenhouse gases from international shipping currently are not subject to the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, a new treaty may be adopted in the future that includes restrictions on shipping emissions. Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to climate change could increase our costs related to operating and maintaining our vessels and require us to install new emission controls, acquire allowances or pay taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions, or administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. Revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities may also be adversely affected. Adverse effects upon the oil and gas industry relating to climate change, including growing public concern about the environmental impact of climate change, may also adversely affect demand for our services. For example, increased regulation of greenhouse gases or other concerns relating to climate change may reduce the demand for oil and gas in the future or create greater incentives for use of alternative energy sources. Any long-term material adverse effect on the oil and gas industry could have a significant financial and operational adverse impact on our business that we cannot predict with certainty at this time. Our vessels may suffer damage due to the inherent operational risks of the seaborne transportation industry and we may experience unexpected dry-docking costs, which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. Our vessels and their cargoes will be at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as marine disasters, bad weather and other acts of God, business interruptions caused by mechanical failures, grounding, fire, explosions and collisions, human error, war, terrorism, piracy and other circumstances or events. These hazards may result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, the payment of ransoms, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or re-routing, which may also subject us to litigation. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a dry-docking facility. The costs of dry-dock repairs are unpredictable and may be substantial. We may have to pay dry-docking costs that our insurance does not cover in full. The loss of earnings while these vessels are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at dry-docking facilities is sometimes limited and not all dry-docking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable dry-docking facility or our vessels may be forced to travel to a dry-docking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while these vessels are forced to wait for space or to steam to more distant dry-docking facilities would decrease our earnings. In the case of bareboat chartered vessels drydocking risks, expenses and loss of hire or freight revenue affect the bareboat charterer and not the shipowner, for the duration of the bareboat charter. 10 The market value of our vessels, and those we may acquire in the future, may fluctuate significantly, which could cause us to incur losses if we decide to sell them following a decline in their market values or we may be required to write down their carrying value, which will adversely affect our earnings. The fair market value of our vessels may increase and decrease depending on the following factors: ● general economic and market conditions affecting the international tanker and drybulk shipping industries; ● prevailing level of charter rates; ● competition from other shipping companies; ● types, sizes and ages of vessels; ● other modes of transportation; ● supply and demand for vessels; ● cost of newbuildings; ● price of steel; ● governmental or other regulations; and ● technological advances. If we sell any vessel at a time when vessel prices have fallen, the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount in our financial statements in which case we will realize a loss. Vessel prices can fluctuate significantly, and in the case where the market value falls below the carrying amount we evaluate the asset for a potential impairment adjustment and may be required to write down the carrying amount of the vessel in our financial statements and incur a loss and a reduction in earnings, if the estimate of undiscounted cash flows, excluding interest charges, expected to be generated by the use of the asset is less than its carrying amount. See "Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Policies—Impairment of Vessels." An over-supply of drybulk carrier and/or tanker capacity may lead to reductions in charter hire rates and profitability. The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels. The market supply of drybulk carriers has been increasing, and the number of drybulk carriers on order as of December 31, 2011, was estimated by market sources to be approximately 35.2% of the existing global drybulk fleet, with the majority of deliveries expected during the next two years, although available data with regard to cancellations of existing newbuilding orders or delays of newbuilding deliveries are not always accurate. The market supply of tankers is affected by a number of factors such as demand for energy resources, oil and petroleum products, as well as strong overall economic growth in part of the world economy, including Asia. As of December 31, 2011, newbuilding orders have been placed for an aggregate of approximately 18.3% of the existing global tanker fleet with the bulk of deliveries expected during 2012 to 2014. 11 An over-supply of drybulk carrier and/or tanker capacity has already resulted in a reduction of charter hire rates. If further reduction occurs, we may only be able to re-charter our vessels at reduced or unprofitable rates or we may not be able to charter these vessels at all upon the expiration or termination of our vessels' current charters. The occurrence of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. We are partially dependent on spot charters and any decrease in spot charter rates in the future may adversely affect our earnings. As of the date of this report, one of our drybulk vessels is operating in the spot market, and we may operate additional vessels in the spot market in the future. Although spot chartering is common in the industry, the spot charter market may fluctuate significantly. The successful operation of our vessels in the competitive spot charter market depends upon, among other things, our ability to obtain profitable spot charters and minimize, to the extent possible, time spent waiting for charters and time spent traveling unladen to pick up cargo. The spot market is very volatile, and, in the past, there have been periods when spot rates have declined below the operating cost of vessels. If future spot charter rates decline, then we may be unable to operate our vessels trading in the spot market profitably, meet our obligations, including payments on indebtedness, or to pay dividends in the future. Furthermore, as charter rates for spot charters are fixed for a single voyage which may last up to several weeks, during periods in which spot charter rates are rising, we will generally experience delays in realizing the benefits from such increases. Our ability to negotiate new or replacement charters on our vessels upon the expiration or termination of our current charters, or on vessels that we may acquire in the future, the charter rates payable under any charters and vessel values will depend upon, among other things, economic conditions in the sectors in which our vessels operate at that time, changes in the supply and demand for vessel capacity and changes in the supply and demand for the seaborne transportation services. Operating results from our drybulk vessel is subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our operating results. Our drybulk carrier is currently employed in the spot market, a market that has historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, therefore, charter rates. This seasonality may result in volatility in our operating results. The drybulk carrier market is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of coal and other raw materials in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. In addition, unpredictable weather patterns in these months tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of certain commodities. As a result, our revenues from our drybulk carrier may be weaker during the fall and winter months. This seasonality could materially affect our results of operations. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. Given current market conditions, we seek to deploy our vessels on time and bareboat charters in a manner that will help us achieve a steady flow of earnings. As of the date of this annual report, six of our tanker vessels are contractually committed to bareboat charters. Although these period charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue as well as a portion of the revenues generated by the charterer's deployment of the vessels in the spot market or otherwise, our vessels committed to period charters may not be available for spot voyages during an upturn in the tanker or drybulk industry cycle, as the case may be, when spot voyages might be more profitable. If we cannot continue to employ our vessels on profitable time charters or trade them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow may suffer if rates achieved are not sufficient to cover respective vessel operating and financial expenses. 12 Our vessels may call on ports located in countries that are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. or other governments, which could adversely affect our business, reputation and the market for our common stock. Although we have not entered into, nor do we have any future plans to enter into, any contracts, agreements, or other arrangements with countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism, such as Cuba, Iran, Sudan, and Syria, from time to time on charterers' instructions, our vessels may call on ports located in countries subject to sanctions and embargoes imposed by the United States government and countries identified by the U.S. government as state sponsors of terrorism. The U.S. sanctions and embargo laws and regulations vary in their application, as they do not all apply to the same covered persons or proscribe the same activities, and such sanctions and embargo laws and regulations may be amended or strengthened over time. In 2010, the U.S. enacted the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions Accountability and Divestment Act, or CISADA, which expanded the scope of the former Iran Sanctions Act. Among other things, CISADA expands the application of the prohibitions to non-U.S. companies, such as our company, and introduces limits on the ability of companies and persons to do business or trade with Iran when such activities relate to the investment, supply or export of refined petroleum or petroleum products. Although we believe that we are in compliance with all applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations, and intend to maintain such compliance, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future, particularly as the scope of certain laws may be unclear and may be subject to changing interpretations. Any such violation could result in fines or other penalties and could result in some investors deciding, or being required, to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company. Additionally, some investors may decide to divest their interest, or not to invest, in our company simply because we do business with companies that do business in sanctioned countries, even if we have not violated any laws. Moreover, our charterers may violate applicable sanctions and embargo laws and regulations as a result of actions that do not involve us or our vessels, and those violations could in turn negatively affect our reputation. Investor perception of the value of our common stock may also be adversely affected by the consequences of war, the effects of terrorism, civil unrest and governmental actions in these and surrounding countries. World events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004 and in London on July 7, 2005 and the continuing response of the world community to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflicts and recent developments in the Middle East, including Egypt, and North Africa, including Libya, and the presence of the United States and other armed forces in Iraq and Afghanistan may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain any additional financing or, if we are able to obtain additional financing, to do so on terms unfavorable to us. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks on vessels, such as the October 2002 attack on the M.V. Limburg, a very large crude carrier not related to us, may in the future also negatively affect our operations and financial condition and directly impact our vessels or our customers. Future terrorist attacks could result in increased volatility and turmoil of the financial markets in the United States and globally. Any of these occurrences, or the perception that our vessels are potential terrorist targets, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and ability to pay dividends. 13 Acts of piracy on ocean-going vessels could adversely affect our business. Acts of piracy have historically affected ocean-going vessels trading in regions of the world such as the South China Sea, the Indian Ocean and in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. Although sea piracy worldwide decreased slightly in 2011 for the first time in five years, throughout 2008, 2009 and 2010, the frequency of piracy incidents increased significantly, particularly in the Gulf of Aden off the coast of Somalia. If these piracy attacks result in regions in which our vessels are deployed being characterized by insurers as "war risk" zones by insurers or Joint War Committee "war and strikes" listed areas, premiums payable for such coverage could increase significantly and such insurance coverage may be more difficult to obtain. In addition, crew costs, including costs which may be incurred to the extent we employ onboard security guards, could increase in such circumstances. We may not be adequately insured to cover losses from these incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, detention hijacking as a result of an act of piracy against our vessels, or an increase in cost, or unavailability of insurance for our vessels, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends and may result in loss of revenues, increased costs and decreased cash flows to our customers, which could impair their ability to make payments to us under our charters. In addition, while we believe a time charterer remains liable for charter payments when a vessel is seized by pirates, the charterer may dispute this and withhold charter hire until the vessel is released. A charterer may also claim that a vessel seized by pirates was not "on-hire" for a certain number of days and it is therefore entitled to cancel the charter party, a claim that we would dispute. In addition, we as owners are liable for such costs under any voyage charter. Although we are insured against piracy risks under our war risk insurance policy, we may experience financial losses as a result of vessel damage from pirates, increased insurance deductibles or a rise in the cost of private security service remunerations, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in the economic and political environment in China and policies adopted by the government to regulate its economy may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in respects such as structure, government involvement, level of development, growth rate, capital reinvestment, allocation of resources, rate of inflation and balance of payments position. Prior to 1978, the Chinese economy was a planned economy. Since 1978, increasing emphasis has been placed on the utilization of market forces in the development of the Chinese economy. Annual and five-year plans, or State Plans, are adopted by the Chinese government in connection with the development of the economy. Although state-owned enterprises still account for a substantial portion of the Chinese industrial output, in general, the Chinese government is reducing the level of direct control that it exercises over the economy through State Plans and other measures. There is an increasing level of freedom and autonomy in areas such as allocation of resources, production, pricing and management and a gradual shift in emphasis to a "market economy" and enterprise reform. Limited price reforms were undertaken, with the result that prices for certain commodities are principally determined by market forces. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental and may be subject to revision, change or abolition based upon the outcome of such experiments. If the Chinese government does not continue to pursue a policy of economic reform the level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 An economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate a significant number of the port calls made mainly by our drybulk vessel will continue to involve the loading or discharging of drybulk commodities in ports in the Asia Pacific region. As a result, continued economic slowdown in the Asia Pacific region, especially in Japan and China, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, as well as our future prospects. Before the global economic financial crisis that began in 2008, China had one of the world's fastest growing economies in terms of gross domestic product, or GDP, which had a significant impact on shipping demand. The growth rate of China's GDP decreased to approximately 9.5% for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to approximately 10.3% for the year ended December 31, 2010, and continues to remain below pre-2008 levels. China has imposed measures to restrain lending, which may further contribute to a slowdown in its economic growth. China and other countries in the Asia Pacific region may continue to experience slowed or even negative economic growth in the future. Moreover, the current economic slowdown in the economies of the United States, the European Union and other Asian countries may further adversely affect economic growth in China and elsewhere. Our financial condition and results of operations, as well as our future prospectus, would likely be impeded by a continuing or worsening economic downturn in any of these countries. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of, delay in the loading, off-loading or delivery of, the contents of our vessels or the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our business. Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, operating expense for many of our shipping operations when our vessels are not under period charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC, and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. Currently fuel prices are near historical highs, however fuel may become even more expensive in the future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. Currently, six of our seven vessels are under period employment whereby the fuel cost is borne by the charterer. 15 RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMPANY We are in breach of certain loan covenants contained in our loan agreements. If we are not successful in obtaining waivers and amendments with respect to covenants breached, our lenders may declare an event of default and accelerate our outstanding indebtedness under the relevant agreement, which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our loan agreements require that we comply with certain financial and other covenants. As a result of the drop in our drybulk and tanker asset values we were not in compliance with covenants relating to vessel values such as asset cover ratio, adjusted net worth, net asset value and with covenants relating to book equity as of December 31, 2011. In addition, we were in breach of EBITDA and overall cash position (minimum liquidity covenants) covenants with certain banks not previously waived. A violation of these covenants constitutes an event of default under our credit facilities, which would, unless waived by our lenders, provide our lenders with the right to require us to post additional collateral, increase our interest payments and/or pay down our indebtedness to a level where we are in compliance with our loan covenants. Furthermore, our lenders may accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens on our vessels, in which case our vessels may be auctioned or otherwise transferred which would impair our ability to continue to conduct our business. As a result of these breaches, our total indebtedness of $193.7 million, which after excluding unamortized financing fees of $2.7 million amounts to $196.4 million, and financial instruments of $8.5 million are presented within current liabilities in the accompanying December 31, 2011 consolidated balance sheet. The amounts of long-term debt and financial instruments that have been reclassified and presented together with current liabilities amount to $172.9 million and $5.4 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, we were in breach of covenants with all banks. We are currently in discussions with our banks in relation to these covenant breaches. Breach of our loan covenants, without applicable waiver, entitles our lenders to accelerate our debt. If our indebtedness is accelerated, it would be very difficult in the current financing environment for us to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing and we could lose our vessels if our lenders foreclose their liens. As of the date of this annual report, our payments of loan installments and interest are current with all of our lenders. Our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on management's ability to successfully generate revenue to meet our obligations as they become due and have the continued support of our lenders. Our financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of our inability to continue as a going concern. However, there is a material uncertainty related to events or conditions which raises substantial doubt on our ability to continue as a going concern and, therefore, we may be unable to realize our assets and discharge our liabilities in the normal course of business. Servicing current and future debt will limit funds available for other purposes and impair our ability to react to changes in our business. To finance our fleet expansion program, we incurred secured indebtedness. We must dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. As of December 31, 2011, we had total indebtedness of $193.7 million, which after excluding unamortized financing fees of $2.7 million amounts to $196.4 million, and a ratio of indebtedness to total capital of approximately 71.9%. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of, our indebtedness. Our substantial debt could also have other significant consequences. For example, it could: ● increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; ● require us to dedicate a substantial portion, if not all, of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; 16 ● limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; ● place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt or better access to capital; ● limit our ability to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all; and ● adversely impact our ability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the notes and the credit agreements governing the debts of our subsidiaries, which could result in an event of default under such agreements. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because most of our debt and all the debt under the credit facilities of our subsidiaries is variable rate debt. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. Our loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities, and our lenders may impose additional operating and financial restrictions on us in connection with waivers or amendments to our loan agreements. Our loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us, and our lenders may impose additional restrictions on us in connection with waivers or amendments to our loan agreements. These restrictions may limit our ability to: ● incur additional indebtedness; ● create liens on our assets; ● sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; ● engage in mergers or acquisitions; ● pay dividends; ● make capital expenditures or other investments; ● charter our vessels; ● change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and ● sell our vessels. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. 17 If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share. We intend to continue to grow our fleet in the future. Our future growth will primarily depend on our ability to: ● generate excess cash flow so that we can invest without jeopardizing our ability to cover current and foreseeable working capital needs (including debt service); ● raise equity and obtain required financing for our existing and new operations; ● locate and acquire suitable vessels; ● identify and consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; ● integrate any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; ● hire, train and retain qualified personnel and crew to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; ● enhance our customer base; and ● manage expansion. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We may not be successful in executing our growth plans and we may incur significant additional expenses and losses in connection therewith. The derivative contracts we have entered into to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates could result in higher-than-market interest rates and charges against our income. As of December 31, 2011, we have six interest rate swaps for purposes of managing our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates applicable to indebtedness under our credit facilities. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the change in fair value of our interest rate swaps was an unrealized gain of $2.7 million. Our hedging strategies, however, may not always be effective and we may incur substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then-existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all, or at a higher than anticipated cost, may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. In the highly competitive international tanker and drybulk shipping markets, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. The operation of tanker and drybulk vessels and the transportation of cargoes shipped in these vessels, as well as the shipping industry in general, is extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker and drybulk shipping companies, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of oil and refined petroleum products and drybulk cargoes can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets than us. 18 A limited number of financial institutions hold our cash including financial institutions located in Greece. A limited number of financial institutions, including institutions located in Greece, hold all of our cash. Our bank accounts have been deposited from time to time with banks in Germany, United Kingdom and Greece amongst others. Of the financial institutions located in Greece, some are subsidiaries of international banks and others are Greek financial institutions. These balances are not covered by insurance in the event of default by these financial institutions. The occurrence of such a default could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and we may lose part or all of our cash that we deposit with such banks. We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We have historically derived a significant part of our revenue from a small number of charterers. In 2011, approximately 57.5% of our revenue derived from four charterers. These four charterers, Cosco Quingdao, Daelim H&L Co. Ltd, Daeyang Shipping and Harren & Partner Maritime Services GmbH provided 12.3%, 20.2%, 13.4% and 11.6% of our revenues in 2011, respectively. If one or more of these customers is unable to perform under one or more charters with us and we are not able to find a replacement charter, or if a customer exercises certain rights to terminate the charter, we could suffer a loss of revenues that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we could lose a customer or the benefits of a charter if, among other things: ● the customer fails to make charter payments because of its financial inability, disagreements with us or otherwise; ● the customer terminates the charter because we fail to deliver the vessel within a fixed period of time, the vessel is lost or damaged beyond repair, there are serious deficiencies in the vessel or prolonged periods of off-hire, or if we are otherwise in default under the charter; or ● the customer terminates the charter because the vessel has been subject to seizure for more than a specified number of days. If we lose a key customer, we may be unable to obtain charters on comparable terms or may become subject to the volatile spot market, which is highly competitive and subject to significant price fluctuations. As of the date of this annual report, four of our vessels are employed on charters at charter rates significantly above current market charter rates and significantly above spot market rates, which most directly reflect the current levels of the drybulk and product tanker charter markets. If it were necessary to secure substitute employment for any of these vessels due to the loss of a customer under current market conditions, such employment would be at a significantly lower charter rate, resulting in a significant reduction in revenues. The loss of any of our customers, or charters, or a decline in payments under our charters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 We may be subject to litigation that, if not resolved in our favor and not sufficiently insured against, could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be, from time to time, involved in various litigation matters. These matters may include, among other things, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, asbestos and other toxic tort claims, employment matters, governmental claims for taxes or duties, securities litigation, and other litigation that arises in the ordinary course of our business. Although we intend to defend these matters vigorously, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or other litigation matter, and the ultimate outcome of any litigation or the potential costs to resolve them may have a material adverse effect on us. Insurance may not be applicable or sufficient in all cases and/or insurers may not remain solvent, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the international tanker and drybulk shipping industries, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. All of our executive officers are employees of Central Mare Inc., or Central Mare which we refer to as our Fleet Manager, a related party controlled by the family of our Chief Executive Officer and we have entered into agreements with our Fleet Manager for the provision of our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director, Evangelos Pistiolis, our Chief Financial Officer and Director, Alexandros Tsirikos, our Executive Vice President, Chairman and Director, Vangelis Ikonomou, and our Chief Technical Officer, Demetris Souroullas. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers. If labor interruptions are not resolved in a timely manner, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and available cash. Our Fleet Manager employs 25 people, all of whom are shore-based. In addition, our Fleet Manager is responsible for recruiting, mainly through a crewing agent, the senior officers and all other crew members for our vessels. If not resolved in a timely and cost-effective manner, industrial action or other labor unrest could prevent or hinder our operations from being carried out as we expect and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and available cash. If we expand our business, we will need to improve our operations and financial systems and staff; if we cannot improve these systems or recruit suitable employees, our performance may be adversely affected. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate if we implement a plan to expand the size of our fleet, and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our performance may be adversely affected. 20 A drop in spot charter rates may provide an incentive for some charterers to default on their charters, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. When we enter into a time charter or bareboat charter, charter rates under that charter are fixed throughout the term of the charter. If the spot charter rates in the tanker or drybulk shipping industry, as applicable, become significantly lower than the time charter equivalent rates that some of our charterers are obligated to pay us under our existing charters, the charterers may have incentive to default under that charter or attempt to renegotiate the charter. If our charterers fail to pay their obligations, we would have to attempt to re-charter our vessels at lower charter rates, and as a result we could sustain significant losses which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flow and financial condition, which would affect our ability to meet our loan repayment obligations in which case our lenders could choose to accelerate our indebtedness and foreclose their liens, and we could be required to sell vessels in our fleet and our ability to continue to conduct our business would be impaired. In January 2010, the charterer of the M/T UACC Sila (ex Ionian Wave) and the M/T UACC Shams (ex M/T Tyrrhenian Wave) defaulted on their charters and paid us a reduced charter hire rate of $10,000 per day, rather than $14,300 per day as required under the charter agreements. In January 2011, the same charterer defaulted under the relevant agreements and paid us a reduced hire rate of $9,092 per day. In April and May 2011, we took repossession of the M/T UACC Sila and M/T UACC Shams, respectively, from the defaulting charterer and delivered the vessel to a major charterer under a new bareboat charter for a minimum period of seven (7) years with three successive one-year options at a daily rate of $9,000. We have been examining the unilateral reduction in charter paid by the previous charterer of both vessels and intend to take legal action to recover the amounts owed since the said charterer is considered to be in breach of the charter. We may not be able to recover these amounts, which would have an adverse effect on our cash flows. An increase in operating costs would decrease earnings and available cash. Our vessel operating costs include the costs of crew, fuel (for spot chartered vessels), provisions, deck and engine stores, insurance and maintenance and repairs, which depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Some of these costs, primarily relating to insurance and enhanced security measures, have been increasing. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydocking repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. Increases in any of these expenses would decrease earnings and available cash. In the case of bareboat chartered vessels, operating expenses and loss of hire or freight revenue due to repairs or damages affect the bareboat charterer and not the shipowner, for the duration of the bareboat charter. The aging of our fleet may result in increased operating costs in the future, which could adversely affect our earnings. In general, the cost of maintaining a vessel in good operating condition increases with the age of the vessel. Our current operating fleet has an average age of approximately 3.7 years. As our fleet ages, we will incur increased costs. Due to improvements in engine technology, older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates also increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which our vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions might not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. In the case of bareboat charters any increased costs related to a vessel aging are borne by the bareboat charterer, for the duration of the bareboat charter. 21 Unless we set aside reserves or are able to borrow funds for vessel replacement, our revenue will decline at the end of a vessel's useful life, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unless we maintain reserves or are able to borrow or raise funds for vessel replacement, we will be unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their remaining useful lives, which we estimate to be 25 years from the date of initial delivery from the shipyard. Our cash flows and income are dependent on the revenues earned by the chartering of our vessels to customers. If we are unable to replace the vessels in our fleet upon the expiration of their useful lives, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. We may expand our fleet through the acquisition of previously owned vessels. While we rigorously inspect previously owned, or secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Accordingly, we may not discover defects or other problems with such vessels prior to purchase. Any such hidden defects or problems, when detected, may be expensive to repair, and if not detected, may result in accidents or other incidents for which we may become liable to third parties. Also, when purchasing previously owned vessels, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if the vessels we buy are older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age and type of the vessel. In the case of chartered-in vessels, we run the same risks. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. As our vessels age, market conditions may not justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels. We carry insurance for our fleet against those types of risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. These insurances include hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage and war risk insurance. Reasonable insurance rates can best be obtained when the size and the age/trading profile of the fleet is attractive. As a result, rates become less competitive as a fleet downsizes. In the future, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible as well as, limitations and exclusions which may nevertheless increase our costs or lower our revenue. We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to increased premium payments, or calls, in amounts based on our claim records and the claim records of our fleet managers as well as the claim records of other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. In addition, our protection and indemnity associations may not have enough resources to cover claims made against them. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expense to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by "arresting" or "attaching" a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings for the related off-hired period. In addition, in jurisdictions where the "sister ship" theory of liability applies, a claimant may arrest the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. In countries with "sister ship" liability laws, claims might be asserted against us or any of our vessels for liabilities of other vessels that we own. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition one or more of our vessels for title or hire. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes the owner. A government could also requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes the charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could negatively impact our revenues should we not receive adequate compensation. We may have to pay tax on U.S. source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not begin and end, in the U.S. is characterized as U.S. source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% U.S. federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we have taken this position for U.S. federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source income. Therefore, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 of the Code for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a 4% U.S. federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. The imposition of this tax could have a negative effect on our business. We are likely to be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. Income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income" for this purpose. U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. 23 In general, income derived from the bareboat charter of a vessel should be treated as "passive income" for purposes of determining whether a foreign corporation is a PFIC, and such vessel should be treated as an asset which produces or is held for the production of "passive income." On the other hand, income derived from the time charter of a vessel should not be treated as "passive income" for such purpose, but rather will be treated as services income; likewise, a time chartered vessel should generally not be treated as an asset which produces or is held for the production of "passive income." For our 2011 taxable year, we believe that at least 50% of the average value of our assets consisted of vessels which are bareboat chartered. Therefore, we expect to be treated as a PFIC for our 2011 taxable year. We intend to take necessary steps in order to avoid being classified as a PFIC for 2012 and future taxable years, such as expanding our fleet through the purchase of non-passive income producing assets. However, there can be no assurance that such remedial measures will be effective to avoid PFIC status for 2012 or any future taxable year. Our U.S. shareholders may face adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences and certain information reporting obligations as a result of us being treated as a PFIC. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under "Taxation– U.S. Federal Income Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders"), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of their common shares, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of the common shares. See "Taxation —U.S. Federal Income Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders" for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders as a result of our status as a PFIC. In addition, as a result of being treated as a PFIC for the 2011 taxable year, any dividends paid by us during 2011 and 2012 will not be eligible to be treated as "qualified dividend income," which would otherwise be eligible for preferential tax rates in the hands of non-corporate U.S. shareholders. Fluctuations in exchange rates could affect our results of operations because we generate a portion of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur certain expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars, mainly Euros. During 2011, approximately 18% of our expenses were in Euros and approximately 1% were in currencies other than the U.S. dollar or Euro. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular, the Euro. Should the Euro appreciate relative to the U.S. dollar in future periods, our expenses will increase in U.S. dollar terms, thereby decreasing our net income. We have not hedged these risks and therefore our operating results could suffer as a result. The instability of the Euro or the inability of countries to refinance their debts could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and financial position. As a result of the credit crisis in Europe, in particular in Greece, Italy, Ireland, Portugal and Spain, the European Commission created the European Financial Stability Facility, or the EFSF, and the European Financial Stability Mechanism, or the EFSM, to provide funding to Eurozone countries in financial difficulties that seek such support. In March 2011, the European Council agreed on the need for Eurozone countries to establish a permanent stability mechanism, the European Stability Mechanism, or the ESM, which will be activated by mutual agreement, to assume the role of the EFSF and the EFSM in providing external financial assistance to Eurozone countries. Despite these measures, concerns persist regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations and the overall stability of the Euro. An extended period of adverse development in the outlook for European countries could reduce the overall demand for oil and gas and for our services. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flow. 24 RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON SHARES Our share price may continue to be highly volatile, which could lead to a loss of all or part of a shareholder's investment . The market price of our common shares has fluctuated widely since our common shares began trading in July of 2004 on the Nasdaq National Market, now the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Over the last few years, the stock market has experienced price and volume fluctuations. This volatility has sometimes been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. During 2011, the closing price of our common shares experienced a high of $10.80 on January 12 and 13, 2011 and a low of $1.02 on October 10 and 11, 2011. On March 28, 2011 we received a notification from Nasdaq stating that our common stock was in violation of its minimum bid price requirements. The applicable grace period to regain compliance was 180 calendar days expiring September 26, 2011. On June 24, 2011, we effected a 1-for-10 reverse stock split of our common stock and regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market. In addition, because the market price of our common shares has dropped below $5.00 per share, brokers generally prohibit shareholders from using such shares as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts. This inability to continue to use our common shares as collateral may lead to sales of such shares creating downward pressure on and increased volatility in the market price of our common shares. Furthermore, if the volatility in the market continues or worsens, it could have a further adverse affect on the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common shares is due to a variety of factors, including: ● fluctuations in interest rates; ● fluctuations in the availability or the price of oil; ● fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; ● announcements by us or our competitors; ● changes in our relationships with customers or suppliers; ● actual or anticipated fluctuations in our semi-annual and annual results and those of other public companies in our industry; ● changes in United States or foreign tax laws; ● actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results from period to period; ● shortfalls in our operating results from levels forecast by securities analysts; ● market conditions in the shipping industry and the general state of the securities markets; ● mergers and strategic alliances in the shipping industry; 25 ● changes in government regulation; ● a general or industry-specific decline in the demand for, and price of, shares of our common stock resulting from capital market conditions independent of our operating performance; ● the loss of any of our key management personnel; and ● our failure to successfully implement our business plan. There may not be a continuing public market for you to resell our common shares. Our common shares and warrants began trading in July of 2004 on the Nasdaq National Market, and our common shares currently trade on the Nasdaq Global Select Market; however, an active and liquid public market for our common shares may not continue and you may not be able to sell your common shares in the future at the price that you paid for them or at all. If the price of our common shares remains below $1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days and we are unable to comply with the minimum bid price requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market, including any applicable cure period, we may be involuntarily delisted from the Nasdaq Global Select Market. As noted above, on March 28, 2011, we received a notification from Nasdaq stating that our common stock was in violation of its minimum bid price requirements. The applicable grace period to regain compliance was 180 calendar days expiring September 26, 2011. On June 24, 2011, we effected a 1-for-10 reverse stock split of our common stock and regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Further, lack of trading volume in our stock may affect investors' ability to sell their shares. Our common shares have been experiencing low daily trading volumes in the market. As a result, an investor may be unable to sell all of such investor's shares in the desired time period, or may only be able to sell such shares at a significant discount to the previous closing price. Certain existing stockholders, who hold approximately 82.3% of our common stock, may have the power to exert control over us, which may limit your ability to influence our actions. As of the day of this report, Sovereign Holdings Inc., or Sovereign, a company that is wholly owned by our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Evangelos J. Pistiolis, owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 82.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Due to the number of shares it owns, Sovereign has the power to exert considerable influence over our actions and to effectively control the outcome of matters on which our shareholders are entitled to vote, including the election of our directors and other significant corporate actions. The interests of this stockholder may be different from your interests. Shareholders may experience significant dilution as a result of future equity offerings or issuance if shares are sold at prices significantly below the price at which shareholders invested. We may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank in the future in connection with, among other things, future vessel acquisitions, repayment of outstanding indebtedness, or our equity incentive plan, without shareholder approval, in a number of circumstances. Our existing shareholders may experience significant dilution if we issue shares in the future at prices significantly below the price at which previous shareholders invested. 26 Our issuance of additional shares of common stock or other equity securities of equal or senior rank would have the following effects: ● our existing shareholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; ● the amount of cash available for dividends payable on the shares of our common stock may decrease; ● the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding common share may be diminished; and ● the market price of the shares of our common stock may decline. Future issuances or sales, or the potential for future issuances or sales, of our common shares, or the conversion of convertible debt into our common shares, may cause the trading price of our securities to decline and could impair our ability to raise capital through subsequent equity offerings. We have issued a significant number of our common shares and convertible debt that may be converted into common shares and we anticipate that we will continue to do so in the future. Furthermore, on August 24, 2011, we entered into a common stock purchase agreement with Sovereign Holdings Inc., a company controlled by our Chief Executive Officer. Under this agreement, commonly known as an equity line, Sovereign committed to purchase up to $10 million of our common shares, to be drawn down from time to time at the request of the Company over the following 12 months. We have drawn a total of $7 million under this agreement. The additional shares to be issued in relation to the Sovereign agreement or shares to be issued in relation to a future follow-on offerings or the conversion of debt could cause the market price of our common shares to decline, and could have an adverse effect on our earnings per share if and when we become profitable. In addition, future sales of our common shares or other securities in the public markets, or the perception that these sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common shares to decline, and could materially impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law and as a result, shareholders may have fewer rights and protections under Marshall Islands law than under a typical jurisdiction in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and By-laws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Shareholder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. It may not be possible for investors to serve process on or enforce U.S. judgments against us. We and all of our subsidiaries are incorporated in jurisdictions outside the U.S. and substantially all of our assets and those of our subsidiaries are located outside the U.S. In addition, most of our directors and officers are non-residents of the U.S., and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to serve process within the U.S. upon us, our subsidiaries or our directors and officers or to enforce a judgment against us for civil liabilities in U.S. courts. In addition, you should not assume that courts in the countries in which we or our subsidiaries are incorporated or where our assets or the assets of our subsidiaries are located (1) would enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions against us or our subsidiaries based upon the civil liability provisions of applicable U.S. federal and state securities laws or (2) would enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us or our subsidiaries based on those laws. 27 Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a merger, amalgamation or acquisition, which could reduce the market price of our common shares. Several provisions of our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and our Amended and Restated Bylaws could make it difficult for our shareholders to change the composition of our Board of Directors in any one year, preventing them from changing the composition of management. In addition, the same provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that shareholders may consider favorable. These provisions include: ● authorizing our Board of Directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock without shareholder approval; ● providing for a classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms; ● prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; ● authorizing the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote for the directors; ● prohibiting shareholder action by written consent unless the written consent is signed by all shareholders entitled to vote on the action; ● limiting the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders; and ● establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. In addition, we have entered into a Stockholders Rights Agreement that will make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the support of our Board of Directors and principal shareholders. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public shareholders to benefit from a change in control and, as a result, may reduce the market price of our common stock and your ability to realize any potential change of control premium. RISKS RELATED TO OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH OUR FLEET MANAGER AND ITS AFFILIATES We are dependent on our Fleet Manager to perform the day-to-day management of our fleet. Our executive management team consists of our President and Chief Executive Officer, Evangelos Pistiolis, our Chief Financial Officer, Alexandros Tsirikos, our Executive Vice President, Vangelis Ikonomou, and our Chief Technical Officer, Demetris Souroullas. We subcontract the day-to-day vessel management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance and repair to our Fleet Manager. Our Fleet Manager is a related party controlled by the family of our Chief Executive Officer, we are dependent on our Fleet Manager for the technical and commercial operation of our fleet and the loss of our Fleet Manager's services or failure to perform obligations to us could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. If our Fleet Manager suffers material damage to its reputation or relationships it may harm our ability to: ● continue to operate our vessels and service our customers; ● renew existing charters upon their expiration; 28 ● obtain new charters; ● obtain financing on commercially acceptable terms; ● obtain insurance on commercially acceptable terms; ● maintain satisfactory relationships with our customers and suppliers; and ● successfully execute our growth strategy. Our Fleet Manager is a privately held company and there may be limited or no publicly available information about it. Our Fleet Manager is a privately held company. The ability of our Fleet Manager to continue providing services for our benefit will depend in part on its own financial strength. Circumstances beyond our control could impair our Fleet Manager's financial strength, and there may be limited publicly available information about its financial strength. As a result, an investor in our common shares might have little advance warning of problems affecting our Fleet Manager, even though these problems could have a material adverse effect on us. Our Fleet Manager may have conflicts of interest between us and its other clients. We have subcontracted the day-to-day technical and commercial management of our fleet, including crewing, maintenance, supply provisioning and repair to our Fleet Manager. Our contracts with our Fleet Manager have an initial term of five years. Our Fleet Manager will provide similar services for vessels owned by other shipping companies, and it may provide similar services to companies with which our Fleet Manager is affiliated. These responsibilities and relationships could create conflicts of interest between our Fleet Manager's performance of its obligations to us, on the one hand, and our Fleet Manager's performance of its obligations to its other clients, on the other hand. These conflicts may arise in connection with the crewing, supply provisioning and operations of the vessels in our fleet versus vessels owned by other clients of our Fleet Manager. In particular, our Fleet Manager may give preferential treatment to vessels owned by other clients whose arrangements provide for greater economic benefit to our Fleet Manager. These conflicts of interest may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 29 