Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the risks described below relate principally to our business and the industry in which we operate, while others relate principally to our indebtedness and separation from Kimberly-Clark. The remaining risks relate principally to the securities markets generally and ownership of our common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, and, as a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. 12 Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our pulp business operates in a cyclical industry which can have an impact on our operating results. Wood pulp is a commodity for which there are multiple other suppliers. Typically, commodities businesses compete primarily on the basis of price and availability. The revenues from producing a commodity tend to be cyclical, with periods of shortage and rapidly rising prices leading to increased production and increased industry investment until supply exceeds demand. Those periods are then typically followed by periods of reduced prices and excess and idle capacity until the cycle is repeated. The following chart shows price information for northern bleached softwood kraft pulp from 1980 to 2006 and illustrates the cyclical nature of the pulp industry: Pulp Price Trends Northern Bleached Softwood Kraft Pulp Source: Resource Information Systems, Inc. The markets and profitability of pulp have been, and are likely to continue to be, cyclical. Accordingly, we must continuously and effectively manage our production and capacity to be able to respond effectively to business cycles in the pulp industry. We use hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to pulp price fluctuations, although these arrangements could result in us incurring higher costs than we would incur without the arrangements. If we are unable to effectively respond to the significant challenges faced by our pulp business, which has experienced losses in recent periods, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be materially and adversely affected. We expect that our pulp business will continue to face a number of significant challenges relating to, among other things, the cyclical nature of the pulp industry (as described in the risk factor above), our cost structure and other factors. 13 Because our pulp business competes primarily on the basis of price and availability, the financial success of our pulp mill depends on its ability to produce pulp at a competitive cost. Our ability to contain or reduce costs at our pulp mills is significant to our business. If our pulp business had been operated on a stand-alone basis during 2004 (prior to the Spin-Off) and if transfers of pulp to Kimberly-Clark in those years had reflected the prices at which we are selling pulp to Kimberly-Clark after the Spin-Off, we estimate that our pulp business would have reported negative gross profit of approximately $19 million in 2004. The negative pro forma gross profit in 2004 would have represented a decrease in our gross profit of about $26 million. The decrease in gross profit would have resulted from the resulting prices at which we would have sold pulp to Kimberly-Clark during those years. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results. Changes in the Canadian dollar exchange rate relative to the U.S. dollar have an effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Exchange rate fluctuations for the Canadian dollar can have a material impact on our financial results because substantially all of our pulp mill’s expenses are incurred in Canadian dollars and our pulp revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars. For example, in 2006, a hypothetical $0.01 increase in the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar would have decreased our income before income taxes by more than $2 million, excluding additional currency remeasurement losses. We anticipate continued strength for the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations for the Euro do not have a material effect on the operations or cash flows of our German technical products business. Our German technical products business incurs substantially all of its costs and sells most of its production in Europe and, therefore, its operations and cash flows are not materially affected by changes in the exchange rate of the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar. Changes in the Euro exchange rate relative to the U.S. dollar will, however, have an effect on our reported results of operations. We use hedging arrangements to reduce our exposure to Canadian dollar exchange rate fluctuations, although these arrangements could result in us incurring higher costs than we would incur without the arrangements. 14 The following chart shows changes in the U.S./Canadian dollar exchange rate from 1980 to 2006: U.S. $/Canadian $ Exchange Rate History Source: Resource Information Systems, Inc. In addition, because we transact business in other foreign countries, some of our revenues and expenses are denominated in a currency other than the local currency of our operations. As a result, changes in exchange rates between the currency in which the transaction is denominated and the local currency of our operations into which the transaction is being recorded can impact the amount of local currency recorded for such transaction. This can result in more or less local currency revenues or costs related to such transaction, and thus have an effect on our reported income before income taxes. The availability of and prices for raw materials and energy will significantly impact our business. We purchase a substantial portion of the raw materials and energy necessary to produce our products on the open market, and, as a result, the price and other terms of those purchases are subject to change based on factors such as worldwide supply and demand and government regulation. We do not have significant influence over our raw material or energy prices and generally do not possess enough power to pass increases in those prices along to purchasers of our products, unless those increases coincide with increased demand for the product. Therefore, raw material or energy prices could increase at the same time that prices for our products are decreasing. In addition, we may not be able to recoup other cost increases we may experience, such as those resulting from inflation or from increases in wages or salaries or increases in health care, pension or other employee benefits costs, insurance costs or other costs. 15 We obtain a portion of the wood fiber required for our Pictou pulp mill from timberland areas licensed by the Nova Scotia provincial government. The government has granted us non-exclusive licenses for substantial timberland areas from which we obtain fiber, and we also obtain fiber harvested from timberland areas licensed to others by this government. There can be no assurance that the amount of fiber that we are allowed to harvest from these licensed areas will not be decreased, or that our licenses will continue to be renewed or extended by the governments on acceptable terms. In the area where our Pictou pulp mill is located, there is increasing competition for wood fiber from various other users. Concerns over the sustainability of forestry practices may also lead to reductions in the timberlands available for harvest to supply our pulp mill. In addition, aboriginal groups have made land claims against various levels of government which, if successful, would further reduce the timberlands from which wood could be harvested for our mill. Changes in governmental practices and policies as they apply to us and to others from whom we obtain fiber also may result in less fiber being available, increased costs to obtain the fiber and additional expense in meeting forestry and silviculture standards. These results could have a material adverse effect upon our financial position, liquidity and results of operations. In addition, in 2006, two suppliers provided over 70% of the wood chips used by the Pictou mill. While we believe that alternative sources of critical supplies, such as wood chips, would be available, disruption of our primary sources could create a temporary, adverse effect on product shipments. Also, an interruption in supply of a latex specialty grade or of specialty softwood pulp to our technical products business, each of which we currently obtain from a single source, could disrupt and eventually cause a shutdown of production of certain technical products. Our pulp mill may experience unexpected or prolonged shutdowns, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our Pictou pulp mill requires annual shutdowns to perform major maintenance because it normally operates continuously. We generally schedule shutdowns of two weeks each year at the mill. The annual scheduled shutdown impacts our profitability and cash flow in the fiscal quarter in which the shutdown occurs. The annual maintenance shutdown at Pictou occurred in October 2006, which resulted in substantially lower operating results and lower production volumes in that month. In addition to scheduled shutdowns, as described above, depressed pulp prices may cause the pulp mill to shut down for a period of time if pulp prices fall to a level where it would be uneconomic to operate. Unexpected production disruptions could also cause us to shut down the mill. Those disruptions could occur due to any number of circumstances, including shortages of raw materials, disruptions in the availability of transportation, labor disputes and mechanical or process failures. Specifically, the failure of our recovery boiler would result in a significant disruption to our business. If our Pictou mill is shut down, it may experience prolonged startup periods, regardless of the reason for the shutdown. Those startup periods could range from several days to several weeks, depending on the reason for the shutdown and other factors. The annual pulp mill maintenance shutdown at Pictou is scheduled to occur in May 2007. The shutdown of the mill for a substantial period of time for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, cash flows and results of operations. The results of our pulp business will depend on our pulp supply agreement with Kimberly-Clark and our ability to supply other customers. The results of our pulp business prior to the Spin-Off were based almost entirely on pulp transfers to Kimberly-Clark. Kimberly-Clark is our largest customer and purchases pulp from us pursuant to the terms of a pulp supply agreement. If the pulp supply agreement were to be terminated, our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We have begun to supply increasing quantities of pulp to customers other than Kimberly-Clark. The success of our pulp business will depend in part upon our ability to effectively market our pulp to new customers, to earn customer acceptance of our pulp and to continue to effectively supply those new customers. If we are unable to effectively market our pulp to customers other than Kimberly-Clark, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity would be materially and adversely affected. 16 Our business will suffer if we are unable to effectively respond to decreased demand for some of our products. We have experienced and may continue to experience decreased demand for some of our existing products. For example, our fine paper business has experienced decreased demand as a result of the growing use of digital and electronic communications media, while our technical products business must cope with a trend to replace durable papers with synthetic films. Our pulp business must compete with an increasing supply of, and in some cases customer preference for, lower priced eucalyptus pulps produced by competitors in the southern hemisphere. If we are unable to implement our business strategies to develop new sources of demand to effectively respond to decreased demand for our existing products, our financial position, cash flows and results of operations would be adversely affected. The terms of our pulp supply agreement with Kimberly-Clark may require us, at times, to sell pulp at prices that are lower than the prices at which we may be able to sell pulp to other customers. Our pulp supply agreement with Kimberly-Clark requires us to supply and Kimberly-Clark to purchase pulp from our pulp mill through 2008, subject to early termination provisions and the two year phase-down period discussed below. The prices at which we sell pulp to Kimberly-Clark under the supply agreement reflect a discount from published industry index prices that may be greater or less than the discount reflected in sales to other customers. The pulp supply agreement also contains minimum and maximum prices for northern bleached softwood kraft pulp shipped to North America prior to December 31, 2007, which may result in us charging Kimberly-Clark prices that are lower than those we could obtain from other customers. In August 2006, the Company and Kimberly-Clark entered into an amended and restated pulp supply agreement (as amended and restated, the “Pulp Supply Agreement”), pursuant to which we agreed to supply and Kimberly-Clark agreed to purchase annually specified tonnages of northern bleached softwood and hardwood kraft pulp, except to the extent excused by a Force Majeure Event. For 2006, the commitment for northern bleached softwood kraft pulp was 322,000 metric tons. For 2007 and, 2008 and any subsequent years, the commitment is 365,000 metric tons and 345,000 metric tons, respectively. These tonnages have been and will be supplied to Kimberly-Clark by our Pictou Pulp mill and, on a pass-through basis, by our former Terrace Bay pulp mill (the “Terrace Bay Mill”) which we sold to Terrace Bay Pulp Inc. (“TBPI”) in August 2006. TBPI has agreed to perform substantially all of our obligations under the Pulp Supply Agreement and, together with three of its affiliated companies, to indemnify and hold the Company harmless for any claims arising from the Terrace Bay Mill’s failure to so perform. In addition, our commitment to supply northern bleached hardwood kraft pulp from the Pictou Mill for 2006, 2007 and 2008 was 14,000, 20,000 and 10,000 metric tons, respectively. The Pulp Supply Agreement may be partially terminated as to the Terrace Bay Mill portion of the pulp supply by either Kimberly-Clark or us giving a reduction notice on June 29, 2007. If either we or Kimberly-Clark gives such a notice, then the Terrace Bay portion of the contract will cease on or about June 30, 2008, unless an earlier termination date is otherwise agreed upon by the parties. A June 30, 2008 termination of the Terrace Bay portion of the Pulp Supply Agreement would cancel the pass-through sales agreement between us and TBPI with respect to the Terrace Bay Mill, but does not terminate our supply arrangements with Kimberly-Clark for pulp manufactured at the Pictou Mill. 17 Either party can elect a two-year phase-down period for the agreement, to begin no earlier than January 1, 2009, under which the commitments for northern bleached softwood kraft pulp in the first and second years of the phase-down period would be 225,000 and 150,000 metric tons, respectively. If either company were to choose to terminate the Terrace Bay portion of the Pulp Supply Agreement pursuant to a reduction notice, the phase-down commitments in the first and second years would be 165,000 and 101,000 metric tons, respectively. Either the Company or Kimberly-Clark may terminate the pulp supply agreement for certain events specified in the agreement, including a material breach of the agreement by the other party that is not cured after 30 days’ notice, insolvency or bankruptcy of the other party, or a fundamental change in the nature of the business of the other party that may substantially affect its ability to sell or to purchase or utilize pulp under the agreement. In addition, Kimberly-Clark may terminate the agreement if the ownership or control of the Company or any of its pulp production facilities becomes vested in or is made subject to the control or direction of, any direct competitor of Kimberly-Clark or any governmental or regulatory authority or any other third party, who in Kimberly-Clark’s reasonable judgment may not be able to reliably perform the Company’s obligations under the agreement. Kimberly-Clark may also terminate the agreement upon one year’s notice if, as a result of the Company’s forestry activities, continued use of the Company’s pulp by Kimberly-Clark does or, in Kimberly-Clark’s reasonable judgment is likely to, result in a substantial loss of sales of Kimberly-Clark’s products or to otherwise materially and adversely affect the reputation of Kimberly-Clark or its products. Kimberly-Clark may also terminate the agreement upon 180 days notice that the Company’s failure to comply with United States customs requirements jeopardizes Kimberly-Clark customs certification. The preceding description is a summary of the principal provisions of the PSA Amendment and is qualified in its entirety by the PSA Amendment. Under the Pulp Supply Agreement, the prices for northern bleached softwood kraft pulp and northern bleached hardwood kraft pulp will be based on published industry index prices for the pulp (subject to minimum and maximum prices for northern bleached kraft softwood pulp shipped to North America prior to December 31, 2007), less agreed upon discounts. The commitments are structured as supply-or-pay and take-or-pay arrangements. Accordingly, if we do not supply the specified minimums, we must pay Kimberly-Clark for the shortfall based on the difference between the contract price and any higher price that Kimberly-Clark pays to purchase the pulp, plus 10% of that difference. If Kimberly-Clark does not purchase the specified minimums, Kimberly-Clark must pay for the shortfall based on the difference between the contract price and any lower price we obtain for the pulp, plus 10% of the difference. If such an event were to occur, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our activities are subject to extensive government regulation, which could increase our costs, cause us to incur liabilities and adversely affect the manufacturing and marketing of our products. Our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and ordinances in both the United States and Canada relating to various environmental, health and safety matters. The nature of our operations requires that we invest capital and incur operating costs to comply with those laws, regulations and ordinances and exposes us to the risk of claims concerning non-compliance with environmental, health and safety laws or standards. We cannot assure that significant additional expenditures will not be required to maintain compliance with, or satisfy potential claims arising from, such laws, regulations and ordinances. Future events, such as changes in existing laws and regulations or contamination of sites owned, operated or used for waste disposal by us (including currently unknown contamination and contamination caused by prior owners and operators of such sites or other waste generators) may give rise to additional costs that could require significantly higher capital expenditures and operating costs, which would reduce the funds otherwise available for operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities or other purposes. For example, the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol by Canada may result in lower limits for the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. The specific limitations with respect to our Canadian operations are unknown and uncertain and may result in increased costs. The outcome of legal actions and claims may adversely affect us. We are involved in legal actions and claims arising in the ordinary course of our business. The outcome of such legal actions and claims against us cannot be predicted with certainty. The legal actions and claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. See Item 3 — Legal Proceedings. 18 We have significant obligations for pension and other post-employment benefits. We have significant obligations for pension and other post-employment benefits which could require future funding beyond that which we have funded in the past or which we currently anticipate. At December 31, 2006, our projected pension benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of pension plan assets by approximately $69 million. In 2006 total contributions to our pension trust were $24.2 million, including $10.8 million to purchase annuity contracts to settle pension liabilities with current retirees in our Ontario, Canada defined benefit pension plan. At December 31, 2006, our projected other post-employment benefit obligations were $40.0 million. No assets have been set aside to satisfy our other post-employment benefit obligations. In 2006, payments for other post-employment benefits were $2.3 million. A material increase in funding requirements or benefit payments could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows. Labor interruptions would adversely affect our business. All of our hourly paid employees are unionized. In addition, some of our key customers and suppliers are also unionized. Strikes, lockouts or other work stoppages or slow downs involving our unionized employees could have a material adverse effect on us. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate. Our operating results are subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Such factors may include, among others, the relative strength of the Canadian dollar and Euro versus the U.S. dollar, changes in the market price of pulp, the effects of competitive pricing pressures, changes in average selling prices of our products, production capacity levels and manufacturing yields, availability and cost of products from our suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and technologies on a timely basis, changes in the mix of products produced and sold, seasonal customer demand and environmental costs. Operating results also could be adversely affected by increasing interest rates and other general economic conditions causing a downturn in the market for paper products. The foregoing factors are difficult to forecast, and these or other factors could materially adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. We face many competitors, several of which have greater financial and other resources. We face competition in each of our business segments from companies that produce the same type of products that we produce or that produce alternative products that customers may use instead of our products. Many of our competitors have greater financial, sales and marketing, or research and development resources than we do. Greater financial resources and product development capabilities may also allow our competitors to respond more quickly to new opportunities or changes in customer requirements. We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits expected from our recent acquisitions, which could adversely affect the value of our shares of common stock. In October 2006, through a newly created wholly-owned subsidiary, Neenah Paper International, LLC, we acquired the outstanding interests of FiberMark Services GmbH & Co. KG (“FiberMark KG”) and the outstanding interests of FiberMark Beteiligungs GmbH (together with FiberMark KG, “Neenah Germany”). In March 2007, we acquired the Fox Valley Corporation, which owns Fox River Paper Company, LLC (“Fox River”). These acquisitions require the integration of companies that have previously operated independently. We acquired Neenah Germany with the expectation that, among other things, the acquisition would provide the two companies’ technical products businesses with added scale in the marketplace, better prospects for growth, and the ability to offer a broader array of premium products and better service to our customers. We acquired Fox River with the expectation that, among other things, the acquisition would provide the two companies’ fine paper businesses with added scale in the marketplace, better prospects for growth, and the ability to offer a broader array of premium branded products and better service to our customers. We also expect to realize cost savings from combining our operations and product portfolio with Fox River and Neenah Germany. 19 The value of our common shares in the future may be affected by the ability of the combined company to achieve the benefits expected to result from these acquisitions. Achieving the benefits of the acquisitions will depend, in part, upon meeting the challenges inherent in the successful integration of business enterprises of the size and scope of Neenah Germany and Fox River and the possible resulting diversion of management attention for an extended period of time. There can be no assurance that we will meet these challenges and that such diversion will not negatively impact our operations. We have incurred expenses related to the integration of Neenah Germany and Fox River, and we expect to incur additional substantial expenses related to the continued integration of Neenah Germany and Fox River as a result of the merger. We have incurred, and continue to incur, expenses in connection with the integration of the businesses, policies, procedures, operations, technologies, systems and personnel of Neenah Germany and Fox River. There are a number of systems that must be integrated, including management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, payroll and benefits and fixed asset systems and regulatory compliance. While we have anticipated that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the expected integration expenses. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings and revenue synergies related to the integration of the businesses. These integration expenses could result in us taking both cash and non-cash charges against earnings. The amount and timing of any such charges are uncertain at present. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness We incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the Spin-Off, which subjected us to restrictive covenants relating to the operation of our business. As of December 31, 2006, we had $225 million of senior notes outstanding. In addition, our borrowing base under our revolving credit agreement was $153 million and $57.3 million of borrowings were outstanding. Our leverage could have important consequences. For example, it could: · make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on the notes and our other indebtedness; · place us at a disadvantage to our competitors; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes; · increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or the industry in which we operate; · limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes; and · limit our ability to plan for and react to changes in our business and the industry in which we operate. The terms of our indebtedness, including the revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes, contain covenants restricting our ability to, among other things, incur certain additional debt, make specified restricted payments and capital expenditures, authorize or issue capital stock, enter into transactions with our affiliates, consolidate or merge with or acquire another business, sell certain of our assets or liquidate, dissolve or wind-up our company. In addition, the terms of our revolving credit facility require us to achieve and maintain certain specified financial ratios. These restrictions may limit our ability to engage in activities which could expand our business, including obtaining future financing, making needed capital expenditures or taking advantage of business opportunities such as strategic acquisitions and dispositions. 20 Our revolving credit facility accrues interest at variable rates. As of December 31, 2006, we had $165 million of capacity under our revolving credit facility. Availability under the credit facility will fluctuate over time depending on the value of our inventory, receivables and various capital assets. At December 31, 2006, we had $57.3 million of borrowings outstanding, $2.8 million in outstanding letters of credit and $88.2 million of remaining availability. We may reduce our exposure to rising interest rates by entering into interest rate hedging arrangements, although those arrangements may result in us incurring higher interest expenses than we would incur without the arrangements. If interest rates increase in the absence of such arrangements, we will need to dedicate more of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our debt. For more information on our liquidity, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Our revolving credit agreement is secured by substantially all of our North American assets. Our revolving credit agreement, as amended, is secured by substantially all of our North American assets, including the capital stock of our subsidiaries and is guaranteed by Neenah Paper Company of Canada, a wholly owned subsidiary. Neenah Germany is not a borrower or guarantor with respect to the revolving credit agreement. However, we pledged 65% of our equity interest in Neenah Germany as security for our obligations under the revolving credit agreement. Availability under our revolving credit facility will fluctuate over time depending on the value of our inventory, receivables and various capital assets. An extended work stoppage could result in a decrease in the value of the assets securing our credit facility. A reduction in availability under the revolving credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our revolving credit facility or the indenture governing the notes could result in an event of default that could cause acceleration of our indebtedness. Our failure to comply with the covenants and other requirements contained in the indenture governing the notes, our revolving credit facility or our other debt instruments could cause an event of default under the relevant debt instrument. The occurrence of an event of default could trigger a default under our other debt instruments, prohibit us from accessing additional borrowings and permit the holders of the defaulted debt to declare amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be immediately due and payable. Our assets or cash flows may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, and we may be unable to refinance or restructure the payments on indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. Despite our indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantially more indebtedness, which may increase the risks created by our substantial indebtedness. Because the terms of our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes do not fully prohibit us or our subsidiaries from incurring additional indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, some of which may be secured. If we or any of our subsidiaries incur additional indebtedness, the related risks that we and they now face may intensify. We may not be able to generate a sufficient amount of cash flow to meet our debt obligations, including the notes. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to the notes, our other debt and our other liabilities will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt obligations and other liabilities, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay scheduled expansions and capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. We cannot assure that our operating performance, cash flow and capital resources will be sufficient to repay our debt in the future. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations or restructure our debt to meet our debt and other obligations, we can make no assurances as to the terms of any such transaction or how quickly any such transaction could be completed. 21 If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result: · our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable; · our senior secured lenders could terminate their commitments and commence foreclosure proceedings against our assets; and · we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines in the future or we breach our covenants under the revolving credit facility, we may need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our revolving credit facility to avoid being in default. We may not be able to obtain these waivers. If this occurs, we would be in default under the revolving credit facility. We depend on our subsidiaries to generate cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, including payments on the notes. We conduct a substantial portion of our business through our subsidiaries. Consequently, our cash flow and ability to service our debt obligations, including the notes, depend upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us, or upon loans, advances or other payments made by these entities to us. The ability of these entities to pay dividends or make other payments or advances to us will be subject to applicable laws and contractual restrictions contained in the instruments governing their debt, including our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the notes. These limitations are also subject to important exceptions and qualifications. The ability of our subsidiaries to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us to make scheduled payments on our debt, including the notes, will depend upon their future financial performance, which will be affected by a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our subsidiaries do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to help us satisfy our debt obligations, including payments on the notes, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our debt, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking to raise additional capital. Refinancing may not be possible, and any assets may not be able to be sold, or, if sold, we may not realize sufficient amounts from those sales. Additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, or we may be prohibited from incurring it, if available, under the terms of our various debt instruments then in effect. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as on our ability to satisfy our obligations on the notes. The amount of earnings that our operating subsidiaries are able to distribute to us as dividends, or otherwise, may not be adequate for us to service our debt obligations. Risks Related to the Spin-Off and Our Separation from Kimberly-Clark Our historical financial data, prior to the Spin-Off, is not representative of our results as a separate company and, therefore, will not be reliable as an indicator of our future performance. The historical combined financial data we have included in this Annual Report present the results of operations and financial position of the businesses transferred to us as they were historically operated by Kimberly-Clark. Accordingly, this data is not indicative of our future performance and does not reflect what our financial position and results of operations would have been had we operated as a separate, independent company during the periods presented. This is because, among other things: · our pulp mill now supplies pulp to Kimberly-Clark on terms that are significantly different from the terms in place prior to the Spin-Off; · we now supply pulp to other customers instead of supplying more than 90% of our production to Kimberly-Clark; · for periods presented prior to the Spin-Off, we have made adjustments and allocations, primarily with respect to corporate and administrative costs, because Kimberly-Clark did not account for us as, and we were not operated as, a single, stand-alone business; · the information does not reflect changes resulting from our separation from Kimberly-Clark, including taxes, capital spending projects, employee and transition services matters, the establishment of new offices and certain ongoing incremental expenses such as selling, general and administrative expenses; and 22 · we are incurring interest expense related to the issuance of $225 million principal amount of 7.375% senior notes due 2014 and our entry into a credit agreement that, as amended, provides for up to $180 million of secured borrowings. For additional information about our past financial performance, see “Selected Financial Data,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our audited and unaudited historical consolidated and combined financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report. We could incur significant tax liabilities if the Spin-Off becomes a taxable event. Kimberly-Clark received a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the Spin-Off substantially to the effect that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the transfer of the Pulp and Paper business to us by Kimberly-Clark and the distribution of our common stock qualified as a tax-free transaction under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Although the private letter ruling is generally binding on the Internal Revenue Service, if the factual representations and assumptions made in the private letter ruling were incorrect in any material respect at the time of the Spin-Off, the private letter ruling could be retroactively revoked or modified by the Internal Revenue Service. If, notwithstanding the private letter ruling, the Spin-Off is determined to be a taxable transaction, our stockholders and Kimberly-Clark could be subject to significant U.S. federal income tax liability. The Spin-Off could become taxable as a result of actions or events that occur after the Spin-Off. In that case, we and Kimberly-Clark could be liable for, and we could be required to indemnify and pay Kimberly-Clark for, taxes and resulting liabilities imposed upon Kimberly-Clark stockholders with respect to the Spin-Off. As part of the Spin-Off, we entered into a tax sharing agreement with Kimberly-Clark that allocated between Kimberly-Clark and us the taxes and liabilities relating to any failure of the Spin-Off to be tax-free. Although the taxes described above generally would be imposed on Kimberly-Clark and its stockholders, under the tax sharing agreement, we may be required to indemnify Kimberly-Clark for all or a portion of these taxes. In addition, under U.S. federal income tax laws, we and Kimberly-Clark would both be liable for Kimberly-Clark’s U.S. federal income taxes resulting from the Spin-Off being taxable even though Kimberly-Clark may be required under the tax sharing agreement to indemnify us for such taxes. If we were to be required to indemnify Kimberly-Clark for taxes incurred as a result of the Spin-Off being taxable, or were otherwise liable for and required to pay such taxes and were not indemnified for such taxes, it would have a material adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition. We may not realize potential benefits from our separation from Kimberly-Clark. We cannot assure that we will realize the potential benefits that we expected from our separation from Kimberly-Clark. In addition, we will incur significant costs, which may be greater than those for which we have planned, and we will bear the negative effects of our separation from Kimberly-Clark, including loss of access to the financial, managerial and professional resources from which we have benefited in the past. In January 2006, we terminated substantially all of the services provided by Kimberly-Clark pursuant to a corporate services agreement under which we were dependent upon them as an outsourced service provider for certain transition services. These services included, among others, certain employee benefits administration and payroll, management information systems, purchasing and certain accounting functions. Substantially all of the services formerly provided by Kimberly-Clark are now being performed by Neenah personnel. These include, but are not limited to, management information systems, purchasing and certain accounting functions. To facilitate this transition, we acquired and implemented enterprise resource planning software. In addition, certain employee benefits administration and payroll services have been outsourced to a third party service provider. Failure to successfully transition these services from Kimberly-Clark could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We may not be able to fund our future capital requirements internally or obtain third-party financing. We may be required or choose to obtain additional debt or equity financing to meet our future working capital requirements, as well as to fund capital expenditures and acquisitions. To the extent we must obtain financing from external sources to fund our capital requirements, we cannot guarantee financing will be available on favorable terms, if at all. 23 We may experience increased costs resulting from decreased purchasing power, which could decrease our overall profitability. Prior to our Spin-Off, we were able to take advantage of Kimberly-Clark’s size and purchasing power in procuring goods, services and technology, such as management information services, health insurance, pension and other employee benefits, payroll administration, risk management, tax and other services. As a separate, stand-alone entity, we may be unable to obtain similar goods, services and technology at prices or on terms as favorable as those obtained prior to the Spin-Off. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements in Annual Report on Form 10-K may constitute “forward-looking” statements as defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”), Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “PSLRA”), or in releases made by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”), all as may be amended from time to time. Statements contained in this annual report that are not historical facts may be forward-looking statements within the meaning of the PSLRA. Any such forward-looking statements reflect our beliefs and assumptions and are based on information currently available to us. Forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These cautionary statements are being made pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act and the PSLRA with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the “safe harbor” provisions of such laws. The Company cautions investors that any forward-looking statements we make are not guarantees or indicative of future performance. For additional information regarding factors that may cause our results of operations to differ materially from those presented herein, please see “Risk Factors” contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and as are detailed from time to time in other reports we file with the SEC. You can identify forward-looking statements as those that are not historical in nature, particularly those that use terminology such as “may,” “will,” “should,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “contemplate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “plan,” “project,” “predict,” “potential” or “continue,” or the negative of these, or similar terms. In evaluating these forward-looking statements, you should consider the following factors, as well as others contained in our public filings from time to time, which may cause our actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement: · general economic conditions, particularly in the United States, Canada and Europe; · fluctuations in global equity and fixed-income markets; · the competitive environment; · fluctuations in commodity prices, exchange rates (in particular changes in the U.S./Canadian dollar and U.S./Euro currency exchange rates) and interest rates; · the ability to realize anticipated cost savings, and the successful integrations of the former Fox River business and Neenah Germany operations; · the cost or availability of wood, other raw materials and energy; · unanticipated expenditures related to the cost of compliance with environmental and other governmental regulations; · our ability to control costs and implement measures designed to enhance operating efficiencies; · our ability to successfully integrate and realize synergies from our acquisitions; · the loss of current customers or the inability to obtain new customers; · the cyclical nature of our pulp business; · increases in the funding requirements for our pension and post-employment liabilities; · changes in asset valuations including write-downs of assets including fixed assets, inventory, accounts receivable or other assets for impairment or other reasons; · our existing and future indebtedness; 24 · strikes, labor stoppages and changes in our collective bargaining agreements and relations with our employees and unions; · other risks that are detailed from time to time in reports we file with the SEC; and · the other factors described under “Risk Factors.” You are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this information statement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 25 Item 