D. Risk Factors The following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Any of the risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry The international tanker and drybulk industries are both cyclical and volatile and this may lead to reductions and volatility in our charter rates when we re-charter our vessels, vessel values and our results of operations The international tanker and drybulk industries in which we operate are cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and industry profitability. For both tankers and drybulk carriers, the degree of charter rate volatility among different types of vessels has varied widely. If we enter into a charter when charter rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. In addition, a decline in charter hire rates likely will cause the value of our vessels to decline. Although our balanced fleet deployment strategy may limit our exposure to charter rate volatility, we are nonetheless exposed to changes in spot rates for tankers and, after the acquisition of drybulk carriers without charters, drybulk carriers. Such changes may affect our earnings and the value of our vessels at any given time. The factors affecting the supply and demand for our vessels are outside our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in tanker and drybulk industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for tanker and drybulk carriers capacity include: · demand for refined petroleum products and crude oil for tankers and drybulk commodities for drybulk vessels; · changes in crude oil production and refining capacity as well as drybulk commodity production and resulting shifts in trade flows for crude oil, petroleum product and drybulk commodities; · the location of regional and global crude oil refining facilities and drybulk commodities markets that affect the distance refined petroleum products and crude oil or drybulk commodities are to be moved by sea; · global and regional economic and political conditions; · the globalization of manufacturing and other developments in international trade; · changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargoes are transported and, with regard to drybulk, the supply of and rates for alternate means of transportation; · environmental and other regulatory developments; · currency exchange rates; and · weather. 6 The factors that influence the supply of oceangoing vessel capacity include: · the number of newbuilding deliveries; · the scrapping rate of older vessels; · the price of steel; · the lead times required to purchase new vessels; · vessel casualties; · hanges in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; · port or canal congestion; · the number of vessels that are out of service at a given time; and · changes in global crude oil and drybulk commodity production. The international tanker and drybulk shipping industries have experienced historically high charter rates and vessel values in the recent past and there can be no assurance that these historically high charter rates and vessel values will be sustained. Charter rates in the drybulk shipping sector in the recent past have been near historically high levels. We anticipate that future demand for our tankers and drybulk vessels, and in turn our future charter rates, will be dependent upon continued global economic growth as well as seasonal and regional changes in demand as well as changes in the capacity of the world’s fleet. We believe that the rising charter rates are the result of continued economic growth in the world economy that exceeds growth in global vessel capacity. There can be no assurance that economic growth will not stagnate or decline leading to a decrease in vessel values and charter rates. A decline in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with environmental laws or regulations may adversely affect our operations. The shipping industry in general and our business and the operation of tankers and drybulk vessels in particular, are affected by a variety of governmental regulations in the form of numerous international conventions, national, state and local laws and international, national and local regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which such tankers and drybulk vessels operate, as well as in the country or countries in which such tankers and drybulk vessels are registered. These regulations include: · the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, which imposes strict liability for the discharge of oil into the 200-mile United States exclusive economic zone, the obligation to obtain certificates of financial responsibility for vessels trading in United States waters and the requirement that newly constructed tankers that trade in United States waters be constructed with double-hulls; · the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969 entered into by many countries (other than the United States) relating to strict liability for pollution damage caused by the discharge of oil; · the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships with respect to strict technical and operational requirements for tankers; 7 · the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, with respect to crew and passenger safety; · the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 with respect to the safeguarding of life and property through limitations on load capability for vessels on international voyages; and · the United States Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. More stringent maritime safety rules are being imposed worldwide as a result of the oil spill off the coast of France in November 2002 relating to the loss of the M/T Prestige, a 26-year old single-hull tanker owned by a company not affiliated with us. Additional laws and regulations may also be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses, certificates and financial assurances with respect to our vessel operations. In the event of war or national emergency, our tankers and drybulk vessels may be subject to requisition by the government of the flag flown by the tanker or drybulk vessel without any guarantee of compensation for lost profits. We believe our vessels are maintained in good condition in compliance with present regulatory requirements, are operated in compliance with applicable safety/environmental laws and regulations and are insured against usual risks for such amounts as our management deems appropriate. Our vessels’ operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during each vessel’s required annual survey. However, government regulation of tankers and drybulk carriers, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental impact, may change in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our ships to keep them in compliance. Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels or we may be required to write down their carrying value, which will adversely affect our earnings. The fair market value of our vessels may increase and decrease depending on the following factors: · general economic and market conditions affecting the international tanker and drybulk shipping industries; · competition from other shipping companies; · types, sizes and ages of vessels; · other modes of transportation; · cost of newbuildings; · price of steel; · governmental or other regulations; 8 · prevailing level of charter rates; and · technological advances. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before an impairment is identified, the sale may be at less than the vessel’s carrying amount in our financial statements, or if vessel prices have fallen below the carrying amount in our financial statements, we may be required to write down the carrying amount of the vessels on our financial statements, with the result that we shall incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. An increase in the supply of vessel capacity without an increase in demand for vessel capacity would likely cause charter rates and vessel values to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels, conversion of vessels to other uses, such as floating production and storage facilities, and loss of tonnage as a result of casualties. Currently there is significant new building activity with respect to virtually all sizes and classes of vessels. If the amount of tonnage delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, vessel capacity will increase. If the supply of vessel capacity increases faster than the demand for vessel capacity, the charter rates paid for our vessels as well as the value of our vessels could materially decline. Such a decline in charter rates and vessel values would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our operating results from our tankers are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our operating results and ability to pay dividends. Seventeen of the vessels in our combined fleet are tankers, representing approximately 77% of our combined fleet and approximately 84% of our total deadweight capacity. We operate our tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, therefore, charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The tanker sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased consumption of oil and petroleum products in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. As a result, our revenues from our tankers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could materially affect our results from operations. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business. The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Our vessels are currently enrolled with the American Bureau of Shipping, Lloyd’s Register of Shipping, Det Norske Veritas and Bureau Veritas each of which is a member of the International Association of Classification Societies. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel’s machinery may be placed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be dry docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. 9 If a vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable, which will negatively impact our revenues and results from operations. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels. We seek to deploy our vessels on both time charters and in the spot market in a manner that will optimize our earnings. As of May 21, 2008, 11 of our tanker vessels and four of our drybulk vessels were contractually committed to time charters, one of our drybulk vessels was contractually committed to a bareboat charter. Although these time charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue as well as a portion of the revenues generated by the charterer’s deployment of the vessels in the spot market or otherwise, our vessels committed to time charters may not be available for spot voyages during an upturn in the tanker or drybulk industry cycle, as the case may be, when spot voyages might be more profitable. The spot market is highly competitive, and spot market charter rates may fluctuate dramatically based on the supply and demand for the major commodities carried internationally by water as well as other factors. We cannot assure you that future spot market voyage charters will be available at rates that will allow us to operate our vessels profitably. As of May 21, 2008, six tanker vessels were trading in the spot market. If we cannot continue to employ these vessels on time charters or trade them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow may suffer. World events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004 and in London on July 7, 2005 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain any additional financing or, if we are able to obtain additional financing, to do so on terms favorable to us. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 10 Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share. We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our growth will depend on: · locating and acquiring suitable vessels; · identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; · integrating any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; · enhancing our customer base; · managing expansion; and · obtaining required financing. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant additional expenses and losses in connection therewith. As we expand our business, we will need to improve our operations and financial systems and staff; if we cannot improve these systems or recruit suitable employees, our performance may be adversely affected. Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we implement our plan to expand the size of our fleet, and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our performance may be adversely affected. We expend substantial sums during construction of newbuildings without assurance that they will be completed. We are typically required to expend substantial sums as progress payments during construction of a newbuilding, but we do not derive any revenue from the vessel until after its delivery. If we were unable to obtain financing required to complete payments on any of our newbuilding orders, we could effectively forfeit all or a portion of the progress payments previously made. As of December 31, 2007, we had 6 newbuildings on order with deliveries scheduled in the first half of 2009. As of December 31, 2007, progress payments made towards these newbuildings, totaled $42.8 million. To fund the remaining portion of existing or future capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from operations or incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, incurring additional debt may 11 significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, which could limit our financial flexibility and ability to pursue other business opportunities. A decline in the market value of our vessels could lead to a default under our loan agreements and the loss of our vessels. The loan agreements under our secured credit facilities contain a covenant that requires the aggregate market value of the mortgaged vessels to at all times exceed 140% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the loan. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may be in default of this loan covenant and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. In addition, a sale of a vessel at a time when its market value has declined below its carrying value on our books would adversely affect our results. Servicing current and future debt will limit funds available for other purposes and impair our ability to react to changes in our business. To finance our fleet expansion program, we incurred secured indebtedness. We must dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. As of December 31, 2007, we had total indebtedness of $444.3 million (excluding unamortized deferred financing fees of $5.4 million), and a ratio of indebtedness to total capital of approximately 67%. We will need to take on additional indebtedness as we expand our fleet, which could increase our debt to equity ratio. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay, when due, the principal of, interest on or other amounts due in respect of, our indebtedness. Our substantial debt could also have other significant consequences. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to general economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions; · require us to dedicate a substantial portion, if not all, of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; · place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt or better access to capital; · limit our ability to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all; and · adversely impact our ability to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the notes and the credit agreements governing the debts of our subsidiaries, which could result in an event of default under such agreements. Furthermore, our interest expense could increase if interest rates increase because some of the debt under the credit facilities of our subsidiaries is variable rate debt. If we do not have sufficient earnings, we may be required to refinance all or part of our existing debt, sell assets, borrow more money or sell more securities, none of which we can guarantee we will be able to do. 12 Our loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities. Our loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: · incur additional indebtedness; · create liens on our assets; · sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; · engage in mergers or acquisitions; · pay dividends; · make capital expenditures or other investments; · change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and · sell our vessels. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders’ interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders’ permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. If we are unable to remain in compliance with agreements governing our indebtedness or to obtain waivers of any noncompliance, we will not be able to continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2007, we were out of compliance with the Adjusted EBITDA to fixed charges coverage covenant in our financing agreements with three of our lenders. While they have waived this non compliance through December 31, 2008, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain further waivers of, or amendments to, our financing facilities if we were to breach any representation, warranty or covenant contained in such financing facilities or waiver or amendment. Any default under our secured financing facilities and failure to obtain any necessary waivers or amendments in the future could result in the acceleration of the indebtedness under these facilities and the liquidation by the lender of the related collateral. Any acceleration of indebtedness would have a material adverse affect on our liquidity and ability to continue as a going concern and any liquidation of our collateral could be at a substantial loss. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers. The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. 13 We have changed our accounting policy to expense all drydocking costs as we incur them, which may result in significant and varying effects on our results of operations from period to period. We have historically accounted for drydocking costs that qualified as ‘‘Planned Major Maintenance Activities’’ using the deferral method, under which we amortized drydocking costs over the estimated period of benefit between drydockings. Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2007 we have changed our accounting policy and now expense all drydocking costs as we incur them. The effect of this new accounting policy is and will be presented on a comparative basis for all periods covered in future quarterly and annual earnings announcements and filings. The impact of the new accounting policy is that net income for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006 decreased by approximately $3.8 million and $26.1 million, or $0.41 and $2.57 per share, respectively. Depending upon the future drydocking schedule for our fleet and the extent of repairs our vessels will require, expensing our drydocking costs as incurred could have significant and varying effects on our results of operations from period to period and may make it difficult to compare our operating results to those of other companies. In the highly competitive international tanker and drybulk shipping markets, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources. We employ our vessels in a highly competitive market that is capital intensive and highly fragmented. The operation of tanker and drybulk vessels and the transportation of cargoes shipped in these vessels, as well as the shipping industry in general, is extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker and drybulk shipping companies, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of oil and refined petroleum products and drybulk cargoes can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets than us. We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance. We have historically derived a significant part of our revenue from a small number of charterers. In 2007, approximately 33% of our revenue was derived from 2 charterers; Glencore and PDVSA provided 23% and 10% of our revenues, respectively. The occurrence of any problems with these charterers may adversely affect our revenues. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the international tanker and drybulk shipping industries, which may negatively impact the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. We have entered into employment contracts with our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Evangelos Pistiolis, our Chief Financial Officer and Director, Stamatios Tsantanis, our Executive Vice President and Director, Vangelis Ikonomou and our Vice President Demetris Souroullas. Our success will depend upon our ability to hire and retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. 14 Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not intend to maintain ‘‘key man’’ life insurance on any of our officers. Risks involved with operating oceangoing vessels could affect our business and reputation, which would adversely affect our revenues and stock price. The operation of an oceangoing vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: · marine disaster; · piracy; · environmental accidents; · cargo and property losses or damage; and · mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting, and could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an oil spill or other environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator. If one of our vessels were involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental contamination, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Delays in deliveries of our vessels could harm our operating results. We took delivery of six drybulk vessels between November 2007 and May 2008. The delivery of any secondhand vessels we may purchase, could be delayed, which would delay our receipt of revenues in the spot market or under period charters for the vessels. If delivery of a vessel is materially delayed, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, operating expense for many of our shipping operations when our vessels are not under period charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition. If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility, resulting in vessel downtime. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to 15 pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover. The inactivity of these vessels while they are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or we may be forced to move to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels’ positions. The loss of earnings while our vessels are forced to wait for space or to relocate to drydocking facilities that are farther away from the routes on which our vessels trade would decrease our earnings. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings. While we rigorously inspect previously owned, or secondhand vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Also, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if the vessels we buy are older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. As of May 21, 2008, 15 of the tanker vessels in our fleet were more than 10 years of age. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we sell vessels, we are not certain that the price for which we sell them will equal at least their carrying amount at that time. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels. We procure insurance for our fleet against those types of risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. These insurances include hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, war risk insurance and insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel. While we currently have loss of hire insurance that covers, subject to annual coverage limits, all of the vessels in our fleet, we may not purchase loss of hire insurance to cover newly acquired vessels. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible as well as, limitations and exclusions which may nevertheless increase our costs or lower our revenue. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the ‘‘sister ship’’ theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant’s maritime lien and any ‘‘associated’’ vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert ‘‘sister ship’’ liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our ships. 16 Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings. A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels could negatively impact our revenues should we not receive adequate compensation. Certain existing stockholders, who hold approximately 32.1% of our common stock, may have the power to exert control over us, which may limit your ability to influence our actions. Sovereign Holdings Inc., or Sovereign Holdings, a company that is wholly owned by our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Evangelos J. Pistiolis, and Kingdom Holdings Inc., or Kingdom Holdings, a company owned primarily by adult relatives of our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Evangelos J. Pistiolis, own, directly or indirectly, approximately 6.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. In addition, Sphinx Investment Corp. and QVT Financial LP, entities owned and controlled by unaffiliated third parties, own 14.8% and 10.4% of our common stock, respectively. Together, these existing shareholders own 32.1% of our common stock. While these shareholders have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of their shares of common stock, due to the number of shares of our common stock they own, they have the power to exert considerable influence over our actions. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings. Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we have taken this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. Therefore, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a 4% United States federal income tax on our United States source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business. United States tax authorities could treat us as a ‘‘passive foreign investment company,’’ which could have adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States holders. A foreign corporation will be treated as a ‘‘passive foreign investment company,’’ or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of ‘‘passive income’’ or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation’s assets produce or are held for the production of those types of ‘‘passive income.’’ For purposes of these tests, ‘‘passive income’’ includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these 17 tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute ‘‘passive income.’’ United States shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous United States federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our current assets and activities, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to our current taxable year or any subsequent taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute ‘‘passive income,’’ and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our United States shareholders will face adverse United States tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under ‘‘Tax Considerations— United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders’’), such shareholders would be liable to pay United States federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder’s holding period of our common stock. See ‘‘Tax Considerations— United States Federal Income Taxation of United States Holders’’ for a more comprehensive discussion of the United States federal income tax consequences to United States shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations. We generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur approximately 10% of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars, mainly Euros. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Should the Euro appreciate relatively to the U.S. dollar, then our expenses will increase in U.S dollar terms, thereby decreasing our net income. Specifically, in the 12 months ended December 31, 2007, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased by 12.0% as compared to the Euro. We have not hedged these risks. Our operating results could suffer as a result. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Security holder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our security holders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would security holders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. 18 ITEM 