D. Risk Factors The following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and our business in general. Any of the risk factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Industry The international tanker industry is both cyclical and volatile and this may lead to reductions and volatility in our charter rates when we re-charter our vessels, vessel values and our results of operation The international tanker industry is cyclical with attendant volatility in charter hire rates and industry profitability. The degree of charter hire volatility within the tanker industry has varied widely. If we enter into a charter when charter rates are low, our revenues and earnings will be adversely affected. In addition, a decline in charter hire rates likely will cause the value of our vessels to decline. The degree of charter rate volatility among different types of tankers has varied widely. Although our fleet deployment strategy may limit our exposure, we are nonetheless exposed to changes in spot rates for tankers and such changes may affect our earnings and the value of our vessels at any given time. The factors affecting the supply and demand for our tankers are outside our control and are unpredictable. The nature, timing, direction and degree of changes in industry conditions are also unpredictable. Factors that influence demand for tanker capacity include: o demand for refined petroleum products and crude oil; o changes in crude oil production and refining capacity; o the location of regional and global crude oil refining facilities that affect the distance that refined petroleum products and crude oil are to be moved by sea; o global and regional economic and political conditions; o developments in international trade; o changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances over which cargoes are transported; o environmental and other regulatory developments; o currency exchange rates; and o weather. The factors that influence the supply of oceangoing vessel capacity include: o the number of newbuilding deliveries; o the scrapping rate of older vessels; o the price of steel; o changes in environmental and other regulations that may limit the useful lives of vessels; o port or canal congestion; o the number of vessels that are out of service; and o changes in global crude oil production. The international tanker industry has experienced historically high charter rates and vessel values in the recent past and there can be no assurance that these historically high charter rates and vessel values will be sustained Charter rates in the tanker industry recently have been near historically high levels. We anticipate that future demand for our vessels, and in turn our future charter rates, will be dependent upon continued economic growth in the world's economy as well as seasonal and regional changes in demand and changes in the capacity of the world's fleet. We believe that these charter rates are the result of continued economic growth in the world economy that exceeds growth in global vessel capacity. There can be no assurance that economic growth will not stagnate or decline leading to a decrease in vessel values and charter rates. A decline in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operation and ability to pay dividends. Compliance with environmental laws or regulations may adversely affect our operations The shipping industry in general, our business and the operation of our tankers in particular, are affected by a variety of governmental regulations in the form of numerous international conventions, national, state and local laws and national and international regulations in force in the jurisdictions in which such tankers operate, as well as in the country or countries in which such tankers are registered. These regulations include: o the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA, which imposes strict liability for the discharge of oil into the 200-mile United States exclusive economic zone, the obligation to obtain certificates of financial responsibility for vessels trading in United States waters and the requirement that newly constructed tankers that trade in United States waters be constructed with double-hulls; o the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage of 1969 entered into by many countries (other than the United States) relating to strict liability for pollution damage caused by the discharge of oil; o the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships with respect to strict technical and operational requirements for tankers; o the IMO International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974, or SOLAS, with respect to crew and passenger safety; o the International Convention on Load Lines of 1966 with respect to the safeguarding of life and property through limitations on load capability for vessels on international voyages; and o the United States Marine Transportation Security Act of 2002. More stringent maritime safety rules are being imposed worldwide as a result of the oil spill in November 2002 relating to the loss of the m.t. Prestige, a 26-year old single-hull tanker owned by a company not affiliated with us. Additional laws and regulations may also be adopted that could limit our ability to do business or increase the cost of our doing business and that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we are required by various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies to obtain certain permits, licenses and certificates with respect to our operations. In the event of war or national emergency, our tankers may be subject to requisition by the government of the flag flown by the tanker without any guarantee of compensation for lost profits. We believe our tankers are maintained in good condition in compliance with present regulatory requirements, are operated in compliance with applicable safety/environmental laws and regulations and are insured against usual risks for such amounts as our management deems appropriate. The tankers' operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during each tanker's required annual survey. However, government regulation of tankers, particularly in the areas of safety and environmental impact may change in the future and require us to incur significant capital expenditures on our ships to keep them in compliance. Because the market value of our vessels may fluctuate significantly, we may incur losses when we sell vessels or we may be required to write down their carrying value, which will adversely affect our earnings The fair market value of our vessels may increase and decrease depending on the following factors: o general economic and market conditions affecting the international tanker industry; o competition from other shipping companies; o types and sizes of vessels; o other modes of transportation; o cost of newbuildings; o governmental or other regulations; o prevailing level of charter rates; and o technological advances. If we sell vessels at a time when vessel prices have fallen and before an impairment is identified the sale may be at less than the vessel's carrying amount in our financial statements or if vessel prices have fallen below the carrying amount in our financial statements we may be required to write down the carrying amount, with the result that we shall incur a loss and a reduction in earnings. An increase in the supply of vessel capacity without an increase in demand for vessel capacity would likely cause charter rates and vessel values to decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability The supply of vessels generally increases with deliveries of new vessels and decreases with the scrapping of older vessels, conversion of vessels to other uses, such as floating production and storage facilities, and loss of tonnage as a result of casualties. Currently there is significant new building activity with respect to virtually all sizes and classes of vessels. If the amount of tonnage delivered exceeds the number of vessels being scrapped, vessel capacity will increase. If the supply of vessel capacity increases and the demand for vessel capacity does not, the charter rates paid for our vessels as well as the value of our vessels could materially decline. Such a decline in charter rates and vessel values would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our operating results from our tankers are subject to seasonal fluctuations, which may adversely affect our operating results and ability to pay dividends We operate our tankers in markets that have historically exhibited seasonal variations in demand and, therefore, charter rates. This seasonality may result in quarter-to-quarter volatility in our operating results. The tanker sector is typically stronger in the fall and winter months in anticipation of increased oil consumption of oil and petroleum in the northern hemisphere during the winter months. Our Handymax tankers carry, in part, refined petroleum products such as gasoline, jet fuel, kerosene, naphtha and heating oil. As a result, our revenues from our tankers may be weaker during the fiscal quarters ended June 30 and September 30, and, conversely, revenues may be stronger in fiscal quarters ended December 31 and March 31. This seasonality could materially affect our operating results and cash available for dividends in the future. Compliance with safety and other vessel requirements imposed by classification societies may be very costly and may adversely affect our business The hull and machinery of every commercial vessel must be classed by a classification society authorized by its country of registry. The classification society certifies that a vessel is safe and seaworthy in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of the vessel and the Safety of Life at Sea Convention. Our vessels are currently enrolled with the American Bureau of Shipping, Lloyd's Register of Shipping or Det Norske Veritas, each of which is a member of the International Association of Classification Societies. A vessel must undergo annual surveys, intermediate surveys and special surveys. In lieu of a special survey, a vessel's machinery may be placed on a continuous survey cycle, under which the machinery would be surveyed periodically over a five-year period. Our vessels are on special survey cycles for hull inspection and continuous survey cycles for machinery inspection. Every vessel is also required to be dry docked every two to three years for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel. If any vessel does not maintain its class and/or fails any annual survey, intermediate survey or special survey, the vessel will be unable to trade between ports and will be unemployable, which would negatively impact our revenues. World events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition Terrorist attacks such as the attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, the bombings in Spain on March 11, 2004 and in London on July 7, 2005 and the continuing response of the United States to these attacks, as well as the threat of future terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, continue to cause uncertainty in the world financial markets and may affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The continuing conflict in Iraq may lead to additional acts of terrorism and armed conflict around the world, which may contribute to further economic instability in the global financial markets. These uncertainties could also adversely affect our ability to obtain any additional financing or, if we are able to obtain additional financing, to do so on terms favorable to us. In the past, political conflicts have also resulted in attacks on vessels, mining of waterways and other efforts to disrupt international shipping, particularly in the Arabian Gulf region. Acts of terrorism and piracy have also affected vessels trading in regions such as the South China Sea. Any of these occurrences could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business International shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of contents of our vessels, delays in the loading, offloading or delivery and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against us. It is possible that changes to inspection procedures could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us. Furthermore, changes to inspection procedures could also impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to pay dividends. Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to manage our planned growth properly, we may not be able to successfully expand our market share We intend to continue to grow our fleet. Our growth will depend on: o locating and acquiring suitable vessels; o identifying and consummating acquisitions or joint ventures; o integrating any acquired business successfully with our existing operations; o enhancing our customer base; o managing expansion; and o obtaining required financing. Growing any business by acquisition presents numerous risks such as undisclosed liabilities and obligations, difficulty in obtaining additional qualified personnel, managing relationships with customers and suppliers and integrating newly acquired operations into existing infrastructures. We cannot give any assurance that we will be successful in executing our growth plans or that we will not incur significant expenses and losses in connection therewith. A decline in the market value of our vessels could lead to a default under our loan agreements and the loss of our vessels The loan agreements under our credit facilities contain a covenant that requires the aggregate market value of the mortgaged vessels to at all times exceed 140% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the loan. If the market value of our fleet declines, we may be in default of this loan covenant and we may not be able to refinance our debt or obtain additional financing. Also, declining vessel values could cause us to breach some of the covenants under the financing agreements relating to our indebtedness. If we are unable to pledge additional collateral, our lenders could accelerate our debt and foreclose on our fleet. Servicing future debt would limit funds available for other purposes such as the payment of dividends To finance our fleet expansion program, we incurred secured indebtedness. We must dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to pay the principal and interest on our indebtedness. These payments limit funds otherwise available for working capital, capital expenditures and other purposes. We will need to take on additional indebtedness as we expand our fleet, which could increase our ratio of debt to equity. The need to service our debt may limit funds available for other purposes, including the payment of dividends, and our inability to service debt could lead to acceleration of our debt and foreclosure on our fleet. Our loan agreements contain restrictive covenants that may limit our liquidity and corporate activities Our loan agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability to: o incur additional indebtedness; o create liens on our assets; o sell capital stock of our subsidiaries; o make investments; o engage in mergers or acquisitions; o pay dividends; o make capital expenditures; o change the management of our vessels or terminate or materially amend the management agreement relating to each vessel; and o sell our vessels. Therefore, we may need to seek permission from our lenders in order to engage in some corporate actions. Our lenders' interests may be different from ours, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain our lenders' permission when needed. This may prevent us from taking actions that are in our best interest. We depend on third party managers to manage our fleet As of December 31, 2006, we have subcontracted the day to day technical management, crewing and certain purchasing functions of all vessels in our fleet to third party managers, with the exception of three vessels for which only the crewing has been assigned to third party managers. Further, we may subcontract the technical management of vessels acquired in the future to other third party technical management companies. While our wholly-owned subsidiary, TOP Tanker Management, has direct oversight responsibility for these third party managers, the loss of their services or their failure to perform their obligations could materially and adversely affect the results of our operations. Although we may have rights against these managers if they default on their obligations, we will have no recourse against these parties. Further, we expect that we will need to seek approval from our lenders to change these third party managers. Our ability to obtain additional debt financing may be dependent on the performance of our then existing charters and the creditworthiness of our charterers The actual or perceived credit quality of our charterers, and any defaults by them, may materially affect our ability to obtain the additional capital resources that we will require to purchase additional vessels or may significantly increase our costs of obtaining such capital. Our inability to obtain additional financing at all or at a higher than anticipated cost may materially affect our results of operation and our ability to implement our business strategy. As we expand our business, we will need to improve our operations and financial systems and staff; if we cannot improve these systems or recruit suitable employees, our performance may be adversely affected Our current operating and financial systems may not be adequate as we implement our plan to expand the size of our fleet, and our attempts to improve those systems may be ineffective. If we are unable to operate our financial and operations systems effectively or to recruit suitable employees as we expand our fleet, our performance may be adversely affected. Our earnings may be adversely affected if we do not successfully employ our vessels We seek to deploy our vessels both on time charters and in the spot market in a manner that will optimize our earnings. As of December 31, 2006, 15 of our vessels were contractually committed to time charters. Although these time charters provide relatively steady streams of revenue as well as a portion of the revenues generated by the charterer's deployment of the vessels in the spot market or otherwise, our tankers committed to time charters may not be available for spot voyages during an upturn in the tanker industry cycle, when spot voyages might be more profitable. The spot market is highly competitive, and spot market charter rates may fluctuate dramatically based on the supply and demand for the major commodities internationally carried by water and other factors. We cannot assure you that future spot market voyage charters will be available at rates that will allow us to operate our vessels profitably. As of December 31, 2006, 8 vessels were trading in the spot market and 1 vessel was undergoing her special survey. If we cannot continue to employ these vessels on time charters or trade them in the spot market profitably, our results of operations and operating cash flow may suffer. In the highly competitive international tanker market, we may not be able to compete for charters with new entrants or established companies with greater resources The operation of tanker vessels and transportation of crude and petroleum products, as well as the shipping industry in general, is extremely competitive. Competition arises primarily from other vessel owners, including major oil companies as well as independent tanker companies, some of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. Competition for the transportation of oil and refined petroleum products can be intense and depends on price, location, size, age, condition and the acceptability of the vessel and its operators to the charterers. Due in part to the highly fragmented market, competitors with greater resources could enter and operate larger fleets through consolidations or acquisitions that may be able to offer better prices and fleets. We depend upon a few significant customers for a large part of our revenues. The loss of one or more of these customers could adversely affect our financial performance We have historically derived a significant part of our revenue from a small number of charterers. In 2006, approximately 40% of our revenue was derived from 2 charterers; in 2005, approximately 52% of our revenue was derived from 2 charterers; in 2004, approximately 44% of our revenue was derived from 2 charterers; in 2003, approximately 47% of our revenue was derived from 2 charterers and, in 2002, approximately 65% of our revenue was derived from 3 charterers. During 2006, under time charter contracts, Glencore and Vitol provided 29% and 11% of our revenues, respectively. The occurrence of any problems with these charterers may adversely affect our revenues. We may be unable to attract and retain key management personnel and other employees in the international tanker industry, which may negatively affect the effectiveness of our management and our results of operations Our success depends to a significant extent upon the abilities and efforts of our management team. We have entered into employment contracts with our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Evangelos Pistiolis, our Chief Financial Officer and Director, Stamatios Tsantanis and our Executive Vice President and Director, Vangelis Ikonomou. Our success will depend upon our ability to hire and retain key members of our management team. The loss of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Difficulty in hiring and retaining personnel could adversely affect our results of operations. We do not intend to maintain "key man" life insurance on any of our officers. Risks involved with operating ocean going vessels could affect our business and reputation, which would adversely affect our revenues and stock price The operation of an ocean-going vessel carries inherent risks. These risks include the possibility of: o marine disaster o piracy; o environmental accidents; o cargo and property losses or damage; and o mechanical failure, human error, war, terrorism, political action in various countries, labor strikes or adverse weather conditions. Any of these circumstances or events could result in death or injury to persons, loss of revenues or property, environmental damage, higher insurance rates, damage to our customer relationships, delay or rerouting, and could increase our costs or lower our revenues. The involvement of our vessels in an oil spill or other environmental disaster may harm our reputation as a safe and reliable vessel operator. If one of our vessels were involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental contamination, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and ability to pay dividends. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits Fuel is a significant, if not the largest, operating expense for many of our shipping operations when our vessels are not under period charter. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, an increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our profitability. Further, fuel may become much more expensive in future, which may reduce the profitability and competitiveness of our business versus other forms of transportation, such as truck or rail. Our vessels may suffer damage and we may face unexpected drydocking costs, which could affect our cash flow and financial condition If our vessels suffer damage, they may need to be repaired at a drydocking facility. The costs of drydock repairs are unpredictable and can be substantial. We may have to pay drydocking costs that our insurance does not cover. The inactivity of these vessels while they are being repaired and repositioned, as well as the actual cost of these repairs, would decrease our earnings. In addition, space at drydocking facilities is sometimes limited and not all drydocking facilities are conveniently located. We may be unable to find space at a suitable drydocking facility or we may be forced to move to a drydocking facility that is not conveniently located to our vessels' positions. The loss of earnings while our vessels are forced to wait for space or to relocate to drydocking facilities that are farther away from the routes on which our vessels trade would decrease our earnings. Purchasing and operating previously owned, or secondhand, vessels may result in increased operating costs and vessels off-hire, which could adversely affect our earnings While we inspect previously owned, or secondhand, vessels prior to purchase, this does not normally provide us with the same knowledge about their condition and cost of any required (or anticipated) repairs that we would have had if these vessels had been built for and operated exclusively by us. Also, we do not receive the benefit of warranties from the builders if the vessels we buy are older than one year. In general, the costs to maintain a vessel in good operating condition increase with the age of the vessel. Older vessels are typically less fuel efficient and more costly to maintain than more recently constructed vessels due to improvements in engine technology. Cargo insurance rates increase with the age of a vessel, making older vessels less desirable to charterers. Governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards related to the age of vessels may require expenditures for alterations, or the addition of new equipment, to our vessels and may restrict the type of activities in which the vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. If we sell vessels, we are not certain that the price for which we sell them will equal at least their carrying amount at that time. We may not have adequate insurance to compensate us if we lose our vessels We procure insurance for our fleet against those types of risks commonly insured against by vessel owners and operators. These insurances include hull and machinery insurance, protection and indemnity insurance, which includes environmental damage and pollution insurance coverage, war risk insurance and insurance against loss of hire, which covers business interruptions that result in the loss of use of a vessel. While we currently have loss of hire insurance that covers, subject to annual coverage limits, all of the vessels in our fleet, we may not purchase loss of hire insurance to cover newly acquired vessels. We can give no assurance that we are adequately insured against all risks. We may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable rates for our fleet in the future. The insurers may not pay particular claims. Our insurance policies contain deductibles for which we will be responsible, limitations and exclusions which may nevertheless increase our costs or lower our revenue. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels, which could interrupt our cash flow Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lienholder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay large sums of money to have the arrest lifted. In addition, in some jurisdictions, such as South Africa, under the "sister ship" theory of liability, a claimant may arrest both the vessel which is subject to the claimant's maritime lien and any "associated" vessel, which is any vessel owned or controlled by the same owner. Claimants could try to assert "sister ship" liability against one vessel in our fleet for claims relating to another of our ships. Governments could requisition our vessels during a period of war or emergency, resulting in loss of earnings A government could requisition for title or seize our vessels. Requisition for title occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and becomes her owner. Also, a government could requisition our vessels for hire. Requisition for hire occurs when a government takes control of a vessel and effectively becomes her charterer at dictated charter rates. Generally, requisitions occur during a period of war or emergency. Government requisition of one or more of our vessels would negatively impact our revenues. Certain existing stockholders, who hold approximately 12.6% of our common stock, may have the power to exert control over us, which may limit your ability to influence our actions Sovereign Holdings Inc., or Sovereign Holdings, a company that is wholly owned by our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Evangelos J. Pistiolis, and Kingdom Holdings Inc., or Kingdom Holdings, a company owned primarily by adult relatives of our President, Chief Executive Officer and Director, Evangelos J. Pistiolis, own, directly or indirectly, approximately 12.6% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. While these shareholders have no agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the voting of their shares of common stock, due to the number of shares of our common stock they own, they have the power to exert considerable influence over our actions. Investor confidence and the market price of our common stock may be adversely impacted if we are unable to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires us to include in our annual report on Form 20-F our management's report on, and assessment of the effectiveness of, our internal controls over financial reporting. These requirements have been applied to our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. In addition, beginning with the annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls over financial reporting, we will not be in compliance with all of the requirements imposed by Section 404. Any failure to comply with Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which ultimately could harm our business and could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. We may have to pay tax on United States source income, which would reduce our earnings Under the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, 50% of the gross shipping income of a vessel owning or chartering corporation, such as ourselves and our subsidiaries, that is attributable to transportation that begins or ends, but that does not begin and end, in the United States is characterized as United States source shipping income and such income is subject to a 4% United States federal income tax without allowance for deduction, unless that corporation qualifies for exemption from tax under Section 883 of the Code. We expect that we and each of our subsidiaries will qualify for this statutory tax exemption and we have taken this position for United States federal income tax return reporting purposes. However, there are factual circumstances beyond our control that could cause us to lose the benefit of this tax exemption and thereby become subject to United States federal income tax on our United States source income. Therefore, we can give no assurances on our tax-exempt status or that of any of our subsidiaries. If we or our subsidiaries are not entitled to this exemption under Section 883 for any taxable year, we or our subsidiaries would be subject for those years to a 4% United States federal income tax on our U.S. source shipping income. The imposition of this taxation could have a negative effect on our business. U.S. tax authorities could treat us as a "passive foreign investment company," which could have adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders A foreign corporation will be treated as a "passive foreign investment company," or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for any taxable year consists of certain types of "passive income" or (2) at least 50% of the average value of the corporation's assets produce or are held for the production of those types of "passive income." For purposes of these tests, "passive income" includes dividends, interest, and gains from the sale or exchange of investment property and rents and royalties other than rents and royalties which are received from unrelated parties in connection with the active conduct of a trade or business. For purposes of these tests, income derived from the performance of services does not constitute "passive income." U.S. shareholders of a PFIC are subject to a disadvantageous U.S. federal income tax regime with respect to the income derived by the PFIC, the distributions they receive from the PFIC and the gain, if any, they derive from the sale or other disposition of their shares in the PFIC. Based on our proposed method of operation, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC with respect to any taxable year. In this regard, we intend to treat the gross income we derive or are deemed to derive from our time chartering activities as services income, rather than rental income. Accordingly, we believe that our income from our time chartering activities does not constitute "passive income," and the assets that we own and operate in connection with the production of that income do not constitute passive assets. There is, however, no direct legal authority under the PFIC rules addressing our proposed method of operation. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or a court of law will accept our position, and there is a risk that the IRS or a court of law could determine that we are a PFIC. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we would not constitute a PFIC for any future taxable year if there were to be changes in the nature and extent of our operations. If the IRS were to find that we are or have been a PFIC for any taxable year, our U.S. shareholders will face adverse U.S. tax consequences. Under the PFIC rules, unless those shareholders make an election available under the Code (which election could itself have adverse consequences for such shareholders, as discussed below under "Tax Considerations--U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders"), such shareholders would be liable to pay U.S. federal income tax at the then prevailing income tax rates on ordinary income plus interest upon excess distributions and upon any gain from the disposition of our common stock, as if the excess distribution or gain had been recognized ratably over the shareholder's holding period of our common stock. See "Tax Considerations--U.S. Federal Income Taxation of U.S. Holders" for a more comprehensive discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. shareholders if we are treated as a PFIC. Because we generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur a portion of our expenses in other currencies, exchange rate fluctuations could hurt our results of operations We generate all of our revenues in U.S. dollars but incur approximately 6% of our expenses in currencies other than U.S. dollars, mainly Euros. This difference could lead to fluctuations in net income due to changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the other currencies, in particular the Euro. Should the Euro appreciate relatively to the U.S. Dollar, then our expenses will increase in U.S Dollar terms, thereby decreasing our net income. Specifically, in the 12 months ended December 31, 2006, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased by 12.53% as compared to the Euro. We have not hedged these risks. Our operating results could suffer as a result. We are incorporated in the Republic of the Marshall Islands, which does not have a well-developed body of corporate law Our corporate affairs are governed by our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws and by the Marshall Islands Business Corporations Act, or BCA. The provisions of the BCA resemble provisions of the corporation laws of a number of states in the United States. However, there have been few judicial cases in the Republic of the Marshall Islands interpreting the BCA. The rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under the law of the Republic of the Marshall Islands are not as clearly established as the rights and fiduciary responsibilities of directors under statutes or judicial precedent in existence in certain United States jurisdictions. Security holder rights may differ as well. While the BCA does specifically incorporate the non-statutory law, or judicial case law, of the State of Delaware and other states with substantially similar legislative provisions, our security holders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions by the management, directors or controlling shareholders than would security holders of a corporation incorporated in a United States jurisdiction. 