Item 1A. Risk Factors We may not be able to achieve sufficient growth in our retail franchise to allow us to achieve the anticipated benefits of our merger with Frankfort First Bancorp. We intend to efficiently utilize excess liquidity at either Bank or Kentucky First by buying and selling whole loans or participations in loans between First Federal of Hazard and First Federal of Frankfort, with the originating bank retaining servicing of any loans sold, or by making deposits into accounts at either bank, subject to regulatory limitations, in order to maximize the potential earnings of each bank. This strategy will not succeed if we do not maintain sufficient loan demand at First Federal of Frankfort or sufficient deposit growth and retention at First Federal of Hazard. At June 30, 2009, Frankfort First had total real estate loans of $98.5 million, compared to $106.2 million at June 30, 2008, a decrease of approximately $7.7 million, or 7.3%. Loans sold by First Federal of Frankfort to First Federal of Hazard were $62.2 million and $41.9 million at June 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. At June 30, 2009, First Federal of Hazard had total deposits of $77.7 million, compared to total deposits of $79.9 million at June 30, 2008, a decrease of $2.2 million, or 2.8%. There can be no assurance as to if or when this strategy can be accomplished. In an attempt to increase the overall interest rate spread of the combined company, management may adopt strategies that result in decreases in the assets and/or liabilities of either or both Banks. Rising interest rates may hurt our profits and asset values. If interest rates rise, our net interest income would likely decline in the short term since, due to the generally shorter terms of interest-bearing liabilities, interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities increases more quickly than interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments. In addition, a continuation of rising interest rates may hurt our income because of reduced demand for new loans, the demand for refinancing loans and the interest and fee income earned on new loans and refinancings. At June 30, 2009, in the event of an instantaneous and permanent 200 basis point increase in interest rates, our net portfolio value, which represents the discounted present value of the difference between incoming cash flows on interest-earning and other assets and outgoing cash flows on interest-bearing liabilities, would be expected to decrease by approximately 17.8%. While we believe that modest interest rate increases will not significantly hurt our interest rate spread over the long term due to our high level of liquidity and the presence of a significant amount of adjustable-rate mortgage loans in our loan portfolio, interest rate increases may initially reduce our interest rate spread until such time as our loans and investments reprice to higher levels. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as separate components of equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates therefore could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. Future FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. In May 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a special assessment on all insured institutions due to recent bank and savings association failures. The emergency assessment amounts to 5 basis points of total assets minus Tier 1 Capital as of June 30, 2009, and will be collected on September 30, 2009. The special assessment amounted to approximately $100,000 and was charged, net of the remaining $72,000 credit available to the banks, during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. The FDIC’s higher level of recurring assessments will negatively impact the Company's earnings and the Company expects that noninterest expenses will increase approximately $68,000 for the year ended June 30, 2010 as compared to the year ended June 30, 2009. In addition, the final rule allows the FDIC to impose additional emergency special assessments of up to 5 basis points per quarter for the third and fourth quarters of 2009 if necessary to maintain public confidence in federal deposit insurance or as a result of deterioration in the Deposit Insurance Fund reserve ratio due to institution failures. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will further hurt the Company's earnings. 17 Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. Although we consider ourselves competitive in our market areas, we face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in our earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability will depend upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas. The distressed economy in First Federal of Hazard’s market area could hurt our profits and slow our growth. First Federal of Hazard’s market area consists of Perry and surrounding counties in eastern Kentucky. The economy in this market area has been distressed in recent years due to the decline in the coal industry on which the economy has been dependent. While there has been improvement in the economy from the influx of other industries, such as health care and manufacturing, and there may be signs that the coal industry is improving with the rising costs of petroleum, the economy in First Federal of Hazard’s market area continues to lag behind the economies of Kentucky and the United States. As a result, First Federal of Hazard has experienced insufficient loan demand in its market area. While First Federal of Hazard will seek to use excess funds to purchase loans from First Federal of Frankfort, we expect the redeployment of funds from securities into loans to take several years. Moreover, the slow economy in First Federal of Hazard’s market area will limit our ability to grow our asset base in that market. Proposed regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On June 17, 2009, President Obama published a comprehensive regulatory reform plan intended to modernize and protect the integrity of the United States financial system. The President’s plan contains several elements that would have a direct effect on First Federal MHC, Kentucky First Federal Bancorp, First Federal of Hazard and First Federal of Frankfort. Under the reform plan, the federal thrift charter and the Office of Thrift Supervision would be eliminated and all companies that control an insured depository institution must register as a bank holding company. Although the reform plan does not specify how existing federal thrifts, such as First Federal of Hazard and First Federal of Frankfort, would be treated, we expect that if the federal thrift charter is eliminated First Federal of Hazard and First Federal of Frankfort could become a national bank or adopt a state charter. Registration as a bank holding company would represent a significant change, as there currently exist significant differences between savings and loan holding company and bank holding company supervision and regulation. For example, the Federal Reserve imposes leverage and risk-based capital requirements on bank holding companies whereas the Office of Thrift Supervision does not impose any capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies. Further, a change in the bank regulatory structure could result in a change in the way that mutual holding companies are regulated. The reform plan also proposes the creation of a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which would be dedicated to protecting consumers in the financial products and services market. The creation of this agency could result in new regulatory requirements and raise the cost of regulatory compliance. In addition, legislation stemming from the reform plan could require changes in regulatory capital requirements, loan loss provisioning practices, and compensation practices. If implemented, the foregoing regulatory reforms may have a material impact on our operations. However, because the legislation needed to implement the President’s reform plan has not been introduced, and because the final legislation may differ significantly from the reform plan proposed by the President, we cannot determine the specific impact of regulatory reform at this time. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The regulatory environment for banks, savings associations and other financial institutions is under scrutiny from Congress at this time. New legislation may lead to significant changes in our regulatory environment. 18 Currently, we are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision, our primary federal regulator, and by the FDIC, as insurer of our deposits. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and is intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and the depositors and borrowers of First Federal of Hazard and First Federal of Frankfort rather than for holders of Kentucky First Federal Bancorp common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation, oversight, and fees assessed by our regulators, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. The current administration has proposed comprehensive legislation intended to modernize regulation of the United States financial system. The proposed legislation contains several provisions that would have a substantial impact on the operations of Kentucky First Federal Bancorp, First Federal of Hazard and First Federal of Frankfort if the legislation were enacted. For example, under the proposed legislation, the federal savings association charter would be eliminated and the Office of Thrift Supervision would be consolidated with the Comptroller of the Currency, the regulator or national banks, into a new regulator, the National Bank Supervisor. The proposed legislation would require each of the Banks to become a national bank or convert to a state-chartered institution. The proposed legislation would also eliminate the status of “savings and loan holding company” and mandate that all companies that control an insured depository institution register as bank holding companies subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. Registration as a bank holding company would represent a significant change, as material differences currently exist between savings and loan holding company and bank holding company supervision and regulation. For example, bank holding companies above a specified asset size are subject to consolidated leverage and risk-based capital requirements whereas savings and loan holding companies are not subject to such requirements. Additionally, Office of Thrift Supervision regulations permit mutual holding company parents, such as First Federal MHC, to waive the receipt of dividends paid by their mutual holding company subsidiaries. Mutual holding companies in the bank holding company structure have generally not been permitted to waive dividends. Accordingly, if Kentucky First Federal Bancorp were required to register as a bank holding company, First Federal MHC may not be able to waive the receipt of dividends paid by Kentucky First Federal Bancorp. If it could not waive the receipt of dividends, Kentucky First Federal Bancorp may have to reduce the rate of the dividends it pays to its shareholders. The proposed legislation would also create a new federal agency, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, that would administer and enforce fair lending and consumer compliance laws with respect to financial products and services, instead of the bank regulatory agencies. If enacted, that aspect of the legislation could result in new regulatory requirements and increased regulatory costs for us. Because any final legislation may differ significantly from the current administration’s proposal, the specific effects of the legislation cannot be evaluated at this time. 19 We expect that our return on equity will be low compared to other companies as a result of our high level of capital. Return on average equity, which equals net income divided by average equity, is a ratio used by many investors to compare the performance of a particular company with other companies. For the year ended June 30, 2009, our return on average equity was 1.37%. Over time, we intend to leverage our capital by continued investment in higher-yielding assets, such as loans. We also intend to continue managing excess capital through our stock repurchase program, which has been successful, given relatively low market prices of the Company’s common stock. However, this program could be curtailed or rendered less effective if the market price of our stock increases, or if the Company’s liquid funds are deployed elsewhere. Our goal of generating a return on average equity that is competitive with other publicly-held subsidiaries of mutual holding companies, by increasing earnings per share and book value per share, without assuming undue risk, could take a number of years to achieve, and we cannot assure that our goal will be attained. Consequently, you should not expect a competitive return on average equity in the near future. Failure to achieve a competitive return on average equity might make an investment in our common stock unattractive to some investors and might cause our common stock to trade at lower prices than comparable companies with higher returns on average equity. Additional annual employee compensation and benefit expenses may reduce our profitability and stockholders’ equity. We will continue to recognize employee compensation and benefit expenses for employees and executives under our benefit plans. With regard to the employee stock ownership plan, applicable accounting practices require that the expense be based on the fair market value of the shares of common stock at specific points in the future, therefore we will recognize expenses for our employee stock ownership plan when shares are committed to be released to participants’ accounts. We will also recognize expenses for restricted stock awards and options over the vesting periods of those awards. In addition, employees of both subsidiary Banks participate in a defined-benefit plan through Pentegra. Costs associated with the defined-benefit plans could increase or legislation could be enacted that would increase the Banks’ obligations under the plan or change the methods the Banks use in accounting for the plans. Those changes could adversely affect personnel expense and the Company’s balance sheet. First Federal MHC owns a majority of our common stock and is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders, including preventing sale or merger transactions you may like or a second-step conversion by First Federal MHC. First Federal MHC owns a majority of our common stock and, through its Board of Directors, is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. As a federally chartered mutual holding company, the board of directors of First Federal MHC must ensure that the interests of depositors of First Federal of Hazard are represented and considered in matters put to a vote of stockholders of Kentucky First. Therefore, the votes cast by First Federal MHC may not be in your personal best interests as a stockholder. For example, First Federal MHC may exercise its voting control to prevent a sale or merger transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium for their shares, prevent a second-step conversion transaction by First Federal MHC or defeat a stockholder nominee for election to the Board of Directors of Kentucky First. However, implementation of a stock-based incentive plan will require approval of Kentucky First’s stockholders other than First Federal MHC. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations would likely prevent an acquisition of Kentucky First other than by another mutual holding company or a mutual institution. There may be a limited market for our common stock which may lower our stock price. Although our shares of common stock are listed on the Nasdaq Global Market, there is no guarantee that the shares will be regularly traded. If an active trading market for our common stock does not develop, you may not be able to sell all of your shares of common stock on short notice and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 