ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary and Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical or current facts, including statements about our expectations, anticipated financial results and future business prospects, are forward-looking statements. You can identify these statements by our use of words such as “may,” “will,” “expect,” “believe,” “should,” “plan,” “anticipate” and other similar expressions. You can find examples of these statements throughout this report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We cannot guarantee that our actual results will be consistent with the forward-looking statements we make in this report. We have listed below some of the inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we project. We do not assume an obligation to update any forward-looking statement. 5 Intense competition in our markets could harm our ability to maintain profitability. Domestic and international office products markets are highly and increasingly competitive. Customers have many options when purchasing office supplies and paper, print and document services, technology products and solutions and office furniture. We compete with worldwide contract stationers, office supply superstores, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs, computer and electronics superstores, Internet merchandisers, direct-mail distributors, discount retailers, drugstores, supermarkets and thousands of local and regional contract stationers. In addition, an increasing number of manufacturers of computer hardware, software and peripherals, including some of our suppliers, have expanded their own direct marketing efforts. The other large office supply superstores have increased their presence in our markets in recent years and are expected to continue to do so in the future. In addition, many of our competitors have expanded their office products assortment, and we expect they will continue to do so. In recent years, two package delivery companies have established retail stores that compete directly with us for copy, printing, packaging and shipping business, and offer a limited assortment of office products and services similar to the ones we offer. We anticipate increasing competition from our two domestic office supply superstore competitors and various other providers, including the two package delivery companies, for print-for-pay and related services. Print-for-pay and related services have historically been a key point of difference for OfficeMax stores and are expected to become an increasingly more important part of our future strategies. Any or all of our competitors may become even more aggressive in the future. Increased competition in the office products markets, together with increased advertising, has heightened price awareness among end-users. Such heightened price awareness has led to margin pressure on office products and impacted the results of both our Retail and Contract segments. In addition to price, competition is also based on customer service, the quality and breadth of product selection, and convenient locations. Some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources, which affords them greater purchasing power, increased financial flexibility and more capital resources for expansion and improvement, which may enable them to compete more effectively than we can. We may be unable to open and remodel stores successfully. Our business plans include the opening and remodeling of a significant number of retail stores. For these plans to be successful, we must identify and lease favorable store sites, develop remodeling plans, hire and train associates and adapt management and systems to meet the needs of these operations. These tasks are difficult to manage successfully. If we are not able to open and remodel stores as quickly as we have planned, our future financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. Further, we cannot ensure that the new or remodeled stores will achieve the sales or profit levels that we anticipate. This is particularly true as we introduce different store designs, formats and sizes or enter into new market areas. In particular, the “Advantage” prototype store format we intend to utilize for new and remodeled stores is new and there can be no assurance as to whether or to what extent that format will be successful. Economic conditions directly influence our operating results. Economic conditions, both domestically and abroad, directly influence our operating results. Current and future economic conditions, including the level of unemployment, energy costs and the financial condition and growth prospects of our Contract customers may adversely affect our business and the results of our operations. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuation. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Factors that may contribute to these quarter-to-quarter fluctuations could include the effects of seasonality, our level of advertising and marketing, new store openings, changes in product mix and competitors’ pricing. These quarterly fluctuations could have an adverse effect on both our operating results and the price of our common stock. 6 We may be unable to attract and retain qualified associates. We attempt to attract and retain an appropriate level of personnel in both field operations and corporate functions. As a retailer, we face the challenge of filling many positions at wage scales that are low, although appropriate for our industry and in light of competitive factors. As a result, we face many external risks and internal factors in meeting our labor needs, including competition for qualified personnel, overall unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, as well as rising employee benefit costs, including insurance costs and compensation programs. Changes in any of these factors, including especially a shortage of available workforce in the areas in which we operate, could interfere with our ability to adequately provide services to customers and result in increasing our labor costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. We cannot assure that new associates will perform effectively. In conjunction with our headquarters consolidation, we have hired approximately 600 new employees to replace existing associates who did not relocate to the new headquarters. As a result, we now have a significant number of associates with limited experience with OfficeMax performing key functions. Although we have carefully selected and trained these associates, there is still a risk that institutional knowledge may be lost and operations may be conducted less efficiently or effectively. Also, if we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified associates for our remaining open positions, as well as train new associates and transition them smoothly into their roles, it could adversely affect our operating results. Our expanded offering of proprietary branded products may not improve our financial performance and may expose us to product liability claims. Our product offering includes many proprietary branded products. While we have focused on the quality of our proprietary branded products, we rely on third-party manufacturers for these products. Such third party manufacturers may prove to be unreliable, or the quality of our globally sourced products may not meet our expectations. Furthermore, economic and political conditions in areas of the world where we source such products may adversely affect the availability and cost of such products. In addition, our proprietary branded products compete with other manufacturers’ branded items that we offer. As we continue to increase the number and types of proprietary branded products that we sell, we may adversely affect our relationships with our vendors, who may decide to reduce their product offerings through OfficeMax and increase their product offerings through our competitors. Finally, if any of our customers are harmed by our proprietary branded products, they may bring product liability and other claims against us. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We are more leveraged than some of our competitors, which could adversely affect our business plans. A relatively greater portion of our cash flow is used to service debt and other financial obligations including leases. This reduces the funds we have available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, new stores, store remodels and other purposes. Similarly, our relatively greater leverage increases our vulnerability to, and limits our flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions and creates other competitive disadvantages compared with other companies with relatively less leverage. We cannot ensure new systems and technology will be implemented successfully. Our acquisition of OfficeMax, Inc., in December 2003, required the integration and coordination of our existing contract stationer systems with the retail systems of the acquired company. Integrating and coordinating these systems has been complex and still requires a number of system enhancements and conversions that, if not done properly, could divert the attention of our workforce during development and implementation and constrain for some time our ability to provide the level of service our customers demand. Also, when implemented, the systems and technology enhancements may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to our ongoing operations. A failure to effectively implement changes to to these systems or to realize the intended efficiencies could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. 7 We retained responsibility for certain liabilities of the paper, forest products and timberland businesses we sold. These obligations include liabilities related to environmental, tax, litigation and employee benefit matters. Some of these retained liabilities could turn out to be significant, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our exposure to these liabilities could harm our ability to compete with other office products distributors, who would not typically be subject to similar liabilities. Our business may be adversely affected by the actions of and risks associated with our third-party vendors. We are a reseller of other manufacturer’s branded items and are thereby dependent on the availability and pricing of key products including ink, toner, paper and technology products. As a reseller, we cannot control the supply, design, function or cost of many of the products we offer for sale. Disruptions in the availability of these products may adversely affect our sales and result in customer dissatisfaction. Further, we cannot control the cost of manufacturer’s products and cost increases must either be passed along to our customers or will result in erosion of our earnings. Failure to identify desirable products and make them available to our customers when desired and at attractive prices could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our investment in Boise Cascade, L.L.C. subjects us to the risks associated with the paper and forest products industry. When we sold our paper, forest products and timberland assets, we purchased an equity interest in affiliates of Boise Cascade, L.L.C. In addition, we have an ongoing obligation to purchase paper from an affiliate of Boise Cascade, L.L.C. These continuing interests subject us to market risks associated with the paper and forest products industry. These industries are subject to cyclical market pressures. Historical prices for products have been volatile, and industry participants have limited influence over the timing and extent of price changes. The relationship between supply and demand in these industries significantly affects product pricing. Demand for building products is driven mainly by factors such as new construction and remodeling rates, interest rates and weather. The supply of paper and building products fluctuates based on manufacturing capacity, and excess capacity, both domestically and abroad, can result in significant variations in product prices. The level of supply and demand for forest products will affect the price we pay for paper. Our ability to realize the carrying value of our equity interest in affiliates of Boise Cascade, L.L.C. is dependent upon many factors, including the operating performance of Boise Cascade, L.L.C. and other market factors that may not be specific to Boise Cascade, L.L.C., due in part to the fact that there is not a liquid market for our equity interest. Our exposure to these risks could decrease our ability to compete effectively with our competitors, who typically are not subject to such risks. Compromises of customer debit and credit card data in 2004, regardless of the source of the breach, may damage the OfficeMax brand and our reputation. Compromises of customer debit and credit card data in 2004 were later tied to fraudulent transactions outside the U.S. While we have no knowledge of a security breach at OfficeMax, it is possible that information security compromises that involved OfficeMax customer data, including breaches that occurred at third party processors, may damage our reputation. Such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 