ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Business We and the Investment Advisor commenced operations in July 2004 and have a limited operating history and may not be able to implement our operating policies and strategies successfully. We began operations in July 2004 and, therefore, have a limited operating history and may not be able to implement our operating policies and strategies successfully. The Investment Advisor also has a limited operating history. The results of our operations depend on many factors, including, without limitation, the availability of office, retail, industrial and multi-family residential properties for acquisition, readily accessible short- and long-term funding alternatives in the financial markets and economic conditions. Moreover, delays in investing the net proceeds of our initial public offering may reduce our income. Our shareholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the manner in which the net proceeds received by us from our initial public offering are to be invested or the economic merits of particular assets to be acquired. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our business successfully or implement our operating policies and strategies. You must rely entirely upon the ability of the Investment Advisor with respect to the investment in and management of unspecified assets, and you will not have an opportunity to evaluate for yourself the relevant economic, financial and other information regarding the assets in which the proceeds of our initial public offering will be invested. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay dividends is dependent upon the performance of the Investment Advisor, the real estate market and general economic conditions in the geographic regions where we invest. You must rely totally on the Investment Advisor in the selection of assets. We cannot be sure that the Investment Advisor will be successful in obtaining suitable investments on financially attractive terms or that, if investments are made, our objectives will be achieved. You should be aware that any appraisals we obtain are merely estimates of value and should not be relied upon as accurate measures of true worth or realizable value. If the Investment Advisor loses or is unable to obtain key personnel, our ability to implement our investment strategies could be delayed or hindered. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain key personnel of our Investment Advisor, including Robert H. Zerbst, Jack A. Cuneo, Laurie Romanak, Scott Stuckman, Doug 12 Table of Contents Herzbrun and Phil Kianka, each of whom would be difficult to replace. None of our key personnel are currently subject to employment agreements with us, nor do we maintain any key person life insurance on these key personnel. If the Investment Advisor were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of one or more of these individuals, our operating results could suffer. We also believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon the Investment Advisor’s ability to obtain highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you the Investment Advisor will be successful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. We face risks related to accounting restatements. On April 2, 2007, we filed an amendment to our quarterly report on Form 10-Q/A for the period ended September 30, 2006 in order to restate the related condensed consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2006 and the related condensed consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and shareholders’ equity. We have engaged in, a substantial effort and have remediated this material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. In the future, we cannot be certain that any remedial measures we have taken or plan to take will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting. Also in the future, our inability to remedy every material weakness or any additional deficiencies or material weaknesses that may be identified, could, among other things, cause us to fail to file our periodic reports with the SEC in a timely manner or require us to incur additional costs or to divert management resources. Conflict of Interest Risks The Investment Advisor faces conflicts of interest relating to time management. Although the Investment Advisor does not currently advise any other real estate investment programs, the Investment Advisor’s affiliates, including CBRE Investors, are sponsors of other real estate programs having investment objectives and legal and financial obligations similar to ours. In addition, certain members of the management team of the Investment Advisor may also work with or for other affiliates. As a result, they may have interests in other real estate programs and also engage in other business activities, and may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between our business and these other activities. During times of intense activity in other programs and ventures, they may devote less time and resources to our business than are necessary or appropriate. If the Investment Advisor, for any reason, is not able to provide investment opportunities to us consistent with our investment objectives in a timely manner, we may have lower returns on our investments. The Investment Advisor faces conflicts of interest relating to the purchase and leasing of assets. We may be buying assets at the same time as other existing or future affiliates of the Investment Advisor are buying assets. There is a risk that the Investment Advisor will choose an asset that provides lower returns to us than an asset purchased by another affiliate. We may acquire assets in geographic areas where other affiliates own assets. If another affiliate attracts a tenant that we are competing for, we could suffer a loss of revenue due to delays in locating another suitable tenant. The Investment Advisor and its affiliates may face conflicts of interest if they sell or lease properties they acquire to us. We may acquire or lease properties from the Investment Advisor and its affiliates. We must follow certain procedures when purchasing or leasing assets from the Investment Advisor and its affiliates. The Investment Advisor may owe fiduciary and/or other duties to the selling entity in these transactions and conflicts of interest between the selling entities and us could exist in such transactions. Because we are relying on the Investment Advisor, these conflicts could result in transactions where we do not have the benefit of arm’s length negotiations of the type normally conducted with an unaffiliated third party. 13 Table of Contents We pay substantial fees and expenses to the Investment Advisor, its affiliates and the Dealer Manager, which payments increase the risk that you will not earn a profit on your investment. The Investment Advisor and its affiliates perform services for us in connection with the selection and acquisition of our investments, the management and leasing of our properties and the administration of our other investments. We pay the Investment Advisor an acquisition fee based on the purchase price of our real estate assets and an investment management fee, a portion of which is based on the cost of our real estate assets, each of which is not tied to the performance of our portfolio. The Investment Advisor has entered into a sub-advisory agreement with an affiliate of the Dealer Manager, or the Sub-Advisor, and the Investment Advisor will compensate the Sub-Advisor through certain fees and reimbursable expenses the Investment Advisor receives from us. We pay fees and commissions to the Dealer Manager in connection with the offer and sale of the shares. We also have issued to CBRE REIT Holdings LLC, an affiliate of the Investment Advisor, one Class B limited partnership interest (representing 100% of the Class B interest outstanding) in CBRE OP in exchange for the services provided to us relating to our formation and future services. Our sponsor (including certain of its executive officers) and our executive officers own an aggregate 75.1% distribution interest and affiliates of the Dealer Manager own an aggregate 24.9% distribution interest (excluding distributions that CBRE Investors is entitled to with respect to 29,937 Class A units) in CBRE REIT Holdings LLC. The holder of the Class B limited partnership interest is entitled to receive distributions made by CBRE OP in an amount equal to 15% of all net proceeds of any disposition of properties to be distributed to the partners after subtracting (i) the costs of such disposition, (ii) the amount of equity capital invested in such property which has not been reinvested or returned to the partners, and (iii) an amount equal to a 7% annual, uncompounded return on such invested capital. These fees and partnership interest distributions reduce the amount of cash available for investment in properties or distribution to shareholders. These fees also increase the risk that the amount available for distribution to common shareholders upon a liquidation of our portfolio would be less than the purchase price of the shares in our offering and that you may not earn a profit on your investment. Termination of the Advisory Agreement could be costly. If the advisory agreement is terminated without cause, CBRE OP will redeem the Class B limited partnership interest for a newly created class of partnership interest, which we refer to as the advisor redemption interest, which shall initially have a capital account equal to the fair value of the Class B limited partnership interest as of such date, and if the advisory agreement is terminated for cause, CBRE OP will redeem the Class B limited partnership interest for $100. These provisions may increase the effective cost to us of terminating the advisory agreement, thereby adversely affecting our ability to terminate the Investment Advisor without cause. Certain of our officers and trustees face conflicts of interest. Our chairman and our chief financial officer each serve as managing directors of the Investment Advisor and also serve as president and executive managing director, respectively, of CBRE Investors, our sponsor. These individuals also are members of the investment committee of CBRE Asia Fund, an entity in which we are a limited partner. Our president and chief executive officer serves as the president and chief executive officer of the Investment Advisor and also serves as a managing director of CBRE Investors. Our president and chief executive officer and our chief financial officer directly hold an aggregate 12.9% economic interest in the Investment Advisor. These individuals owe fiduciary duties to these entities and their shareholders. Such fiduciary duties may from time to time conflict with the fiduciary duties owed to our shareholders and us. An affiliate of the Investment Advisor owns one class B limited partnership interest (representing 100% of the class B interest outstanding) in CBRE OP. This interest entitles such affiliate to receive distributions in an amount equal to a percentage of the net proceeds we receive from a sale of a property after certain amounts are paid or provided for. This interest may incentivize the Investment Advisor to recommend the sale of a property or properties that may not be in our best interest at the time. In addition, the premature sale of a property may add concentration risk to the portfolio or may be at a price lower than if we held on to the property and sold it at a later date. 14 Table of Contents We will be subject to additional risks as a result of any joint ventures. We may in the future enter into joint ventures for the acquisition, development or improvement of properties. We may also purchase and develop properties in joint ventures or in partnerships, co-tenancies or other co-ownership arrangements with sellers of properties, affiliates of sellers, developers or other persons. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with an investment in real estate, including, for example: • the possibility that our co-venturer, co-tenant or partner in an investment might become bankrupt; • that such co-venturer, co-tenant or partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals which are or become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; or • that such co-venturer, co-tenant or partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Actions by such a co-venturer, co-tenant or partner might have the result of subjecting the property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and may have the effect of reducing your returns. General Investment Risks No market currently exists for our common shares. If you are able to sell your shares, you would likely have to sell them at a substantial discount. There is no current market for our shares and, therefore, it will be difficult for you to sell your shares promptly. We can not assure you that any trading market will develop or, if developed, that any such market will be sustained. Additionally, our declaration of trust contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our shares, and these restrictions may inhibit your ability to sell your shares. You may not sell your shares unless the buyer meets applicable suitability and minimum purchase standards. Therefore, it will be difficult for you to sell your shares promptly or at all. In addition, the price received for any shares sold is likely to be less than the proportionate value of the real estate we own. Therefore, you should purchase our shares only as a long-term investment. We are conducting a “best efforts” offering and if we are unable to raise substantial funds, we may have substantial limitations on our ability to achieve a diversified portfolio of assets. The Dealer Manager is selling our shares on a “best efforts” basis, whereby it and the other broker-dealers participating in our initial public offering are only required to use their best efforts to sell our common shares and have no firm commitment or obligation to purchase any of our common shares. As a result, the amount of proceeds we raise in our initial public offering may be substantially less than the amount we would need to achieve a broadly diversified portfolio. If we only sell a small number of shares offered in our initial public offering, we may purchase fewer properties resulting in less diversification of the number of assets we own, the types of assets in which we invest, the geographic regions of our properties and the industry types of our tenants. The likelihood of our profitability being affected by any one of our investments will also increase. Your investment in shares will be subject to greater risk to the extent that we lack a diversified asset portfolio. We are conducting a blind pool offering and you will not have the opportunity to evaluate investments prior to purchasing our common shares. You will not be able to evaluate the economic merits, transaction terms or other financial information concerning our future investments prior to purchasing our common shares. You must rely on the Investment Advisor and our board of trustees to implement our investment policies, to evaluate investment opportunities and to structure the terms of our investments. 15 Table of Contents Restrictions on ownership of a controlling percentage of our shares may limit your opportunity to receive a premium on your shares. To assist us in complying with the share ownership requirements necessary for us to qualify as a REIT, our declaration of trust prohibits, with certain exceptions, direct or constructive ownership by any person of more than 3.0% by number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding common shares or more than 3.0% by number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares. Our board of trustees, in its sole discretion, may exempt a person from the share ownership limit. Our board of trustees has waived this limitation for CBRE Investors and the Stein Trusts. This waiver applies only to shares such persons already own, and not to further purchases unless approved by our board of trustees. Additionally, our declaration of trust prohibits direct or constructive ownership of our shares that would otherwise result in our failure to qualify as a REIT. The constructive ownership rules in our declaration of trust are complex and may cause the outstanding shares owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than any ownership limit by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of any ownership limit of our outstanding shares. Any attempt to own or transfer our shares in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of our board of trustees shall be void, and will result in the shares being transferred to a charitable trust. These provisions may inhibit market activity and the resulting opportunity for our shareholders to receive a premium for their shares that might otherwise exist if any person were to attempt to assemble a block of our shares in excess of the number of shares permitted under our declaration of trust and which may be in the best interests of our shareholders. We have implemented certain provisions that could make any change in our board of trustees or in control of our company more difficult. Maryland law, our declaration of trust and our bylaws contain provisions, such as provisions prohibiting, without the consent of our board of trustees, any single shareholder or group of affiliated shareholders, from beneficially owning in excess of an ownership limit, which could make it difficult or expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that is opposed by our management and board of trustees. These and other anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of shareholders to change our management and board of trustees. You are limited in your ability to sell your shares pursuant to our share redemption program. Our share redemption program provides you with the opportunity, on a quarterly basis, to request us to redeem all or a portion of your shares after you have held them for one year, subject to certain restrictions and limitations. In the event that an eligible shareholder presents fewer than all of his or her shares to us for redemption, such shareholder must present at least 25% of his or her shares to us for redemption and must retain at least $5,000 of common shares if any shares are held after such redemption. Shares will be redeemed only to the extent of cash available after the payment of dividends necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT and to avoid the payment of any U.S. federal income tax or excise tax on our net taxable income. This will significantly limit our ability to redeem your shares. To the extent our available cash flow is insufficient to fund all redemption requests, each shareholder’s request will be reduced on a pro rata basis, unless you withdraw your request for redemption or ask that we carry over your request to the next quarterly period, if any, when sufficient funds become available. Our board of trustees reserves the right to amend or terminate the share redemption program at any time. Our board of trustees has delegated to our officers the right to waive the one-year holding period and pro rata redemption requirements in the event of the death, disability (as such term is defined in the Internal Revenue Code) or bankruptcy of a shareholder. You will have no right to request redemption of your shares should our shares become listed on a national exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market or the Nasdaq Global Market. Therefore, in making a decision to purchase shares, you should not assume that you will be able to sell any of your shares back to us pursuant to our share redemption program. 16 Table of Contents We established the offering price on an arbitrary basis. Our board of trustees has arbitrarily determined the selling price of the shares being offered in our initial public offering. Our offering price may not be indicative of the price at which our shares would trade if they were listed on an exchange or actively traded by brokers nor of the proceeds that a shareholder would receive if we were liquidated or dissolved. Investors who purchased common shares in our offering incurred, as of December 31, 2007, an immediate dilution of up to approximately $(1.28), or (12.89)%, in the book value per share of our common shares from the price paid in our offering. Investors purchasing common shares in our offering may experience further dilution if we issue additional equity. The initial offering price of our common shares is substantially higher than the book value per share of our outstanding common shares will be after our offering. Therefore, investors who purchased our common shares incurred, as of December 31, 2007, an immediate dilution of up to approximately $(1.28), or (12.89)%, in the book value per share of our common shares from the price paid in our offering. Existing shareholders and potential investors in our offering do not have preemptive rights to any common shares issued by us in the future. Therefore, investors purchasing shares in our offering may experience further dilution of their equity investment in the event that we sell additional common shares in the future, if we sell securities that are convertible into common shares or if we issue shares upon the exercise of options. The amount and timing of cash dividends is uncertain. Subject to certain limitations, we bear all expenses incurred in our operations, which reduces cash generated by operations and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, our board of trustees, in its discretion, may retain any portion of such funds for working capital, subject to the REIT distribution requirements. We have not set any future dividend payment amount and cannot assure you that sufficient cash will be available to pay dividends to you. We are uncertain of our sources for funding of future capital needs. Substantially all of the net proceeds of the offering will be used for investment in assets and for payment of various fees and expenses. Accordingly, in the event that we develop a need for additional capital in the future for the improvement of our assets or for any other reason, we will need to identify sources for such funding, other than reserves we may establish, and we cannot assure you that such sources of funding will be available to us for capital needs in the future. General Real Estate Risks Real estate investments are long-term illiquid investments and may be difficult to sell in response to changing economic conditions. Real estate investments are subject to certain inherent risks. Real estate investments are generally long-term investments that cannot be quickly converted to cash. Real estate investments are also subject to adverse changes in general economic conditions or local conditions that may reduce the demand for office, retail, industrial, multi-family residential or other types of properties. Other factors can also affect real estate values, including: • possible international and U.S. federal, state or local regulations and controls affecting rents, prices of goods, fuel and energy consumption and prices, water and environmental restrictions; • increasing labor and material costs; • the attractiveness of the property to tenants; 17 Table of Contents • rises in operating costs, taxes and insurance costs; and • changes in interest rates. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We expect that we will incur additional indebtedness in the future. Interest we pay could reduce cash available for distributions. Additionally, if we incur variable rate debt, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which would reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay dividends to you. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times which may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. Adverse economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we purchase properties may negatively impact your overall returns. Adverse economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we buy our properties could affect real estate values in these regions and, to the extent that any of our tenants in these regions rely upon the local economy for their revenues, our tenants’ businesses could also be affected by such conditions. Therefore, changes in local economic conditions could reduce our ability to pay dividends and the amounts we could otherwise receive upon a sale of a property in a negatively affected region. Adverse economic conditions affecting the particular industries of our tenants may negatively impact your overall returns. Adverse economic conditions affecting a particular industry of one or more of our tenants could affect the financial ability of one or more of our tenants to make payments under their leases, which could cause delays in our receipt of rental revenues or a vacancy in one or more of our properties for a period of time. Therefore, changes in economic conditions of the particular industry of one or more of our tenants could reduce our ability to pay dividends and the value of one or more of our properties at the time of sale of such properties. Because we are dependent on our tenants for substantially all of our revenue, our success is materially dependent on the financial stability of our tenants. Lease payment defaults by tenants could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to shareholders. A default of a tenant on its lease payments would cause us to lose the revenue from the property. In the event of such a default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and leasing our property. If a lease is terminated, we cannot assure you that we will be able to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. If one or more of our tenants file for bankruptcy protection, we may be precluded from collecting all sums due. If one or more of our tenants, or the guarantor of a tenant’s lease, commences, or has commenced against it, any proceeding under any provision of the U.S. federal bankruptcy code, as amended, or any other legal or equitable proceeding under any bankruptcy, insolvency, rehabilitation, receivership or debtor’s relief statute or law (bankruptcy proceeding), we may be unable to collect sums due under relevant leases. Any or all of the tenants, or a guarantor of a tenant’s lease obligations, could be subject to a bankruptcy proceeding. Such a bankruptcy proceeding may bar our efforts to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from these entities or their properties, unless we are able to obtain an enabling order from the bankruptcy court. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would only have a general unsecured claim against the tenant, and may not be entitled 18 Table of Contents to any further payments under the lease. A tenant’s or lease guarantor’s bankruptcy proceeding could hinder or delay efforts to collect past due balances under relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. Such an event could cause a decrease or cessation of rental payments which would mean a reduction in our cash flow and the amount available for distribution to our shareholders. In the event of a bankruptcy proceeding, we cannot assure you that the tenant or its trustee will assume our lease. If a given lease, or guaranty of a lease, is not assumed, our cash flow and the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders may be adversely affected. On January 28, 2008, American La France LLC, or ALF, the tenant in our Jedburg Commerce Park property, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. Though the payment of rent from ALF is, in part, guaranteed by a letter of credit and ALF has continued to make timely rent payments, we may be unable to collect all future rent due to us if ALF fails to affirm its lease agreement with us. We may not have funding for future tenant improvements, which may reduce your returns and make it difficult to attract one or more new tenants. When a tenant at one of our properties does not renew its lease or otherwise vacates its space in one of our buildings, it is likely that, in order to attract one or more new tenants, we will be required to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements and tenant refurbishments to the vacated space and other lease-up costs. Substantially all of our net offering proceeds available for investment may be used for investment in real estate properties. We may maintain working capital reserves but cannot guarantee they will be adequate. We also have no identified funding source to provide funds that may be required in the future for tenant improvements, tenant refurbishments and other lease-up costs in order to attract new tenants. We cannot assure you that any such source of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future and, to the extent we are required to use net cash from operations to fund such tenant improvements, tenant refurbishments and other lease-up costs, cash distributions to our shareholders will be reduced. A property that incurs a significant vacancy could be difficult to sell or lease. A property may incur a vacancy either by the continued default of a tenant under its lease or the expiration of one of our leases. Some of our properties may be specifically suited to the particular needs of the tenant based on the type of business the tenant operates. We may have difficulty obtaining a new tenant for any vacant space in our properties, particularly if the space limits the types of businesses that can use the space without major renovation. If a vacancy on any of our properties continues for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash to be distributed to shareholders. In addition, the resale value of the property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property may depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property. Uninsured losses relating to real property may adversely affect your returns. In the event that any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by any such uninsured loss. In addition, we may have limited funding to repair or reconstruct the damaged property, and we cannot assure you that any such source of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future. Furthermore, insurance may be unavailable or uneconomical. In particular, insurance coverage relating to flood or earthquake damage or terrorist acts may not be available or affordable. Development and construction of our properties may result in delays and increased costs and risks. We may invest some or all of the net proceeds available for investment in the acquisition and development of properties upon which we will develop and construct improvements. We will be subject to risks relating to the builder’s ability to control construction costs or to build in conformity with plans, specifications and timetables. The builder’s failure to perform may necessitate legal action by us to rescind the purchase or the construction contract or to compel performance. Performance may also be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the 19 Table of Contents builder’s control. Delays in completion of construction could also give tenants the right to terminate pre-construction leases for space at a newly developed project. We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to such builders prior to completion of construction. Factors such as those discussed above can result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment, which could adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, we may not be able to find suitable tenants to lease our newly constructed projects. Furthermore, we must rely upon projections of rental income and expenses and estimates of the fair market value of a property upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a price to be paid for the property at the time of acquisition of the property. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property. Competition for investments may increase costs and reduce returns. We experience competition for real property investments from corporations, other real estate investment trusts, pension plans and other entities engaged in real estate investment activities. There has been increasing competition for the types of properties in which we invest. Accordingly, competition for investments may have the effect of increasing costs and reducing your returns. Delays in acquisitions of properties may adversely affect your investment and reduce returns. Delays we encounter in the selection, acquisition and development of properties could adversely affect your returns. When we acquire properties prior to the start of construction or during the early stages of construction, it typically takes several months to complete construction and rent available space. Therefore, you could suffer delays in the distribution of cash dividends attributable to any such properties. Uncertain market conditions and the broad discretion of the Investment Advisor relating to the future disposition of properties could adversely affect the return on your investment. We intend to hold the various real properties in which we invest until such time as the Investment Advisor determines that the sale or other disposition thereof appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives or until it appears that such objectives will not be met. The Investment Advisor, subject to the approval in certain cases of our board of trustees, may exercise its discretion as to whether and when to sell a property. We have no obligation to sell properties at any particular time, except that if our shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market or the Nasdaq Global Market on or before December 31, 2011, our declaration of trust requires our board of trustees to consider commencing an orderly liquidation of our assets, which liquidation would require the approval of our shareholders and could last several years. We cannot predict with any certainty the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future. Due to the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our properties, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our properties at a profit in the future. Accordingly, the extent to which you will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will be dependent upon fluctuating market conditions. General economic conditions may affect the timing of the sale of our properties and the purchase price we receive. We may be unable to sell a property if or when we decide to do so. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, the availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand for real estate investments, all of which are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on terms that are acceptable to us. Further, we cannot predict the length of time that will be needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. 20 Table of Contents A concentration of our investments in a limited number of property classes may leave our profitability vulnerable to a downturn in such sectors. At any one time, a significant portion of our property investments may be in a limited number of property classes. As of December 31, 2007, a majority of our investments were in two property classes, office and industrial. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in these classes. The potential effects on our revenues, and as a result on cash available for distribution to our shareholders, resulting from a downturn in the business conducted on those properties could be more pronounced than if we had a more diversified portfolio. Geographic concentration of our portfolio may make us particularly susceptible to adverse economic developments in those geographic areas. A concentration of our properties in a particular geographic area may impact our operating results and abilities to make distributions if that area is impacted by negative economic developments. Your investment will be subject to greater risk to the extent that we lack a geographically diversified portfolio. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 59% of our portfolio consisted of properties located in North Carolina and South Carolina and, consequently, our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected by any significant adverse developments in those markets. If we purchase environmentally hazardous property, our operating results could be adversely affected. Under various U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. In connection with the acquisition and ownership of our properties, we may be potentially liable for such costs. The cost of defending against claims of liability, complying with environmental regulatory requirements or remediating any contaminated property could have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to you. Any costs or expenses relating to environmental matters may not be covered by insurance. Costs associated with complying with regulations such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain U.S. federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties, or restrict further renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. For example, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, or FHAA, requires apartment properties first occupied after March 13, 1990 to be accessible to the handicapped. Noncompliance with the ADA or the FHAA could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. We do not conduct audits or investigations of all of these properties to determine their compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA, the FHAA or other legislation. If one or more of our properties in which we invest is not in compliance with the ADA, the FHAA or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and the FHAA or other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, price per share of our common shares and our ability to satisfy debt service obligations and to pay distributions could be adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents Your investment may be subject to additional risks when we make international investments. We purchase properties located outside the United States. These investments may be affected by factors peculiar to the laws and business practices of the jurisdictions in which the properties are located. These laws may expose us to risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the United States. Foreign investments could be subject to the following risks: • changing governmental rules and policies, including changes in land use and zoning laws; • enactment of laws relating to the foreign ownership of real property and laws restricting the ability of foreign persons or companies to remove profits earned from activities within the country to the person’s or company’s country of origin; • variations in currency exchange rates; • adverse market conditions caused by terrorism, civil unrest and changes in national or local governmental or economic conditions; • the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to make mortgage loans in certain countries and changes in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds resulting from varying national economic policies; • the imposition of unique tax structures and changes in real estate and other tax rates and other operating expenses in particular countries; • our ability to qualify as a REIT may be affected; and • general political and economic instability. Retail properties depend on anchor tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the loss of a key anchor tenant. We may acquire properties with retail components. As with all rental properties, we are subject to the risk that tenants may be unable to make their lease payments or may decline to extend a lease upon its expiration. A lease termination by a tenant that occupies a large area of a retail center (commonly referred to as an anchor tenant) could impact leases of other tenants. Other tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of a lease termination by an anchor tenant, or the closure of the business of an anchor tenant that leaves its space vacant even if the anchor tenant continues to pay rent. Any such modifications or conditions could be unfavorable to us as the property owner and could decrease rents or expense recoveries. Additionally, major tenant closures may result in decreased customer traffic, which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. In the event of a default by a tenant or anchor store, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties. If we make or invest in mortgage loans, our mortgage loans may be impacted by unfavorable real estate market conditions, which could decrease the value of our mortgage investments. If we make or invest in mortgage loans, we will be at risk of defaults by the borrowers on those mortgage loans. These defaults may be caused by many conditions beyond our control, including interest rate levels and local and other economic conditions affecting real estate values. We will not know whether the values of the properties securing the mortgage loans will remain at the levels existing on the dates of origination of the mortgage loans. If the values of the underlying properties drop, our risk will increase because of the lower value of the security associated with such loans. If we make or invest in mortgage loans, our mortgage loans will be subject to interest rate fluctuations which could reduce our returns as compared to market interest rates as well as the value of the mortgage loans in the event we sell the mortgage loans. If we invest in fixed-rate, long-term mortgage loans and interest rates rise, the mortgage loans could yield a return that is lower than then-current market rates. If interest rates decrease, we will be adversely affected to the 22 Table of Contents extent that mortgage loans are prepaid, because we may not be able to make new loans at the previously higher interest rate. If we invest in variable interest rate loans, if interest rates decrease, our revenues will likewise decrease. Finally, if interest rates increase, the value of loans we own at such time would decrease which would lower the proceeds we would receive in the event we sell such loans. Delays in liquidating defaulted mortgage loans could reduce our investment returns. If there are defaults under our mortgage loans, we may not be able to repossess and sell the underlying properties quickly. The resulting time delay could reduce the value of our investment in the defaulted mortgage loans. An action to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan is regulated by state statutes and rules and is subject to many of the delays and expenses of other lawsuits if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims. In the event of default by a mortgagor, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the mortgage loan. We will be subject to risks that result from our passive ownership of real estate, including our investment in CBRE Asia Fund. We have invested and may make future investments in which we passively own real estate. A passive investment in real estate, such as our investment in CBRE Asia Fund, involves risks not otherwise present with other methods of owning real estate. Examples of these risks include: • we cannot take part in the operation, management, direction or control of the real estate; • the party controlling the real estate may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, including inconsistent goals relating to the sale of properties owned by such controlling party or the timing of the termination and liquidation of the controlling party; and • the possibility that we may incur liabilities as the result of actions taken by the controlling party. Our ability to redeem all or a portion of our investment in CBRE Asia Fund is subject to significant restrictions. CBRE Asia Fund is not obligated to redeem the interests of any of its investors, including us, prior to 2017. Except in certain limited circumstances such as transfers to affiliates or successor trustees or state agencies, we will not be permitted to sell our interest in CBRE Asia Fund without the prior written consent of the general partner, which the general partner may withhold in its sole discretion. Financing Risks Recent turmoil in the credit markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms. The U.S. credit markets have recently experienced significant dislocations and liquidity disruptions which have caused the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. Continued turmoil in the credit markets may negatively impact our ability to access debt financing at reasonable terms, which may negatively affect investment returns on future acquisitions or our ability to make acquisitions. Rising interest rates could increase our borrowing costs and reduce cash available for distributions and could also adversely affect the values of the properties we own. We have borrowed and in the future may borrow money to purchase assets. An increase in interest rates could increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service indebtedness and to make distributions to our shareholders. 23 Table of Contents We could become more highly leveraged and an increase in debt service could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make distributions. We had approximately $162,000,000 of outstanding indebtedness, representing approximately 66% of our net assets (or approximately 45% of the cost of our assets including intangibles) as of December 31, 2007. Although we have adopted a policy to limit our aggregate borrowing to no more than 65% of the cost of our assets before non-cash reserves and depreciation, this policy may be altered at any time or suspended if necessary to pursue attractive investment opportunities. Our organizational documents contain a limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur, so that until our shares are listed on a national securities exchange, our aggregate borrowing may not exceed 300% of our net assets unless any excess borrowing is approved by a majority of our independent trustees and is disclosed to shareholders in our next quarterly report. If we become more highly leveraged, then the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on outstanding indebtedness and to pay our anticipated distributions and/or the distributions required to qualify as a REIT, and could harm our financial condition. If we fail to make our debt payments, we could lose our investment in a property. We intend to secure the loans we obtain to fund future property acquisitions with mortgages on some of our properties. If we are unable to make our debt payments as required, a lender could foreclose on the property or properties securing its debt. This could cause us to lose part or all of our investment which in turn could cause a reduction in the value of the shares and the dividends payable to our shareholders. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations. In connection with obtaining certain financing, a lender could impose restrictions on us that would affect our ability to incur additional debt and our distribution and operating policies. Loan documents we enter into may contain customary negative covenants that may limit our ability to further mortgage the property, to discontinue insurance coverage, replace the Investment Advisor as our investment advisor or impose other limitations. If we enter into financing arrangements involving balloon payment obligations, it may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. Our financing arrangements may require us to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. Our ability to make a balloon payment at maturity is uncertain and may depend upon our ability to obtain additional financing or our ability to sell the property. At the time the balloon payment is due, we may or may not be able to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. A refinancing or sale under these circumstances could affect the rate of return to shareholders and the projected time of disposition of our assets. In addition, payments of principal and interest made to service our debts may leave us with insufficient cash to pay the distributions that we are required to pay to qualify as a REIT. In such case, we may be forced to borrow funds to make the distributions required to qualify as a REIT. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. These agreements may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; 24 Table of Contents • the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions (other than through taxable REIT subsidiaries) to offset interest rate losses is limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; and • a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. We have adopted a policy relating to the use of derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risks related to our borrowings. This policy governs our use of derivative financial instruments to manage the interest rates on our variable rate borrowings. Our policy states that we will not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes and intend only to enter into contracts with major financial institutions based on their credit rating and other factors, but we may choose to change these policies in the future. Hedging may reduce the overall returns on our investments, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. U.S. Federal Income Tax Risks If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, our operations and ability to make distributions will be adversely affected because we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates with no deductions for distributions made to shareholders. We believe that we are organized and operate in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, and that our method of operation enables us to continue to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. So long as we qualify as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our net taxable income we distribute currently to our shareholders. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain requirements established under highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and Treasury Regulations for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations, and which involve the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. Because we have made investments outside the U.S., we are subject to foreign currency gains and losses. In May 2007, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 2007-33 and Notice 2007-42. The Revenue Ruling provides that foreign currency gains recognized by a REIT will be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 95% and 75% gross income tests to the extent the income underlying the foreign currency gains so qualifies. The Notice provides interim guidance that generally extends the foregoing treatment to foreign currency gains recognized by a REIT through a foreign branch. We may, however, recognize foreign currency gains that are not treated as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 95% and 75% gross income tests. In addition, income we derive from foreign real property held through a foreign corporation may not be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 95% gross income test (and will not be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT 75% gross income test). To reduce the risk of non-qualifying foreign currency gains adversely affecting our REIT qualification, we may be required to defer the repatriation of cash from foreign jurisdictions or to employ other structures that could affect the timing, character or amount of income we receive or expense we incur from our non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and obligations. While we intend to manage our non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and obligations in a manner that does not jeopardize our ability to qualify as a REIT, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge our qualification as a REIT as a result of foreign currency gains derived from such assets and obligations. In March 2005, we mortgaged one of our real estate properties and invested the proceeds in a money market mutual fund until June 2005 when the proceeds were used to purchase another real estate property. During the time the proceeds were invested in the fund, we treated the investment as a “qualified temporary investment” for purposes of the REIT asset test requirements. If our investment in the fund was not eligible for treatment as a qualified temporary investment; we may not have satisfied the REIT 5% gross asset test for the first quarter of 2005. If our investment in the fund resulted in our noncompliance with the REIT 5% gross asset test, however, we would retain our qualification as a REIT pursuant to certain mitigation provisions 25 Table of Contents of the Internal Revenue Code provided our noncompliance was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect, and certain other requirements are met including the payment of a $50,000 penalty tax. Any potential noncompliance with the 5% gross asset test would be due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect so long as we are considered to have exercised ordinary business care and prudence in attempting to satisfy such test. We believe that we have exercised ordinary business care and prudence in attempting to satisfy the REIT income and asset tests, including the 5% gross asset test, and, accordingly, we believe that any noncompliance with the REIT 5% gross asset test resulting from our investment in the fund should be due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. We have complied with the other requirements of the mitigation provisions of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to such potential noncompliance with the 5% gross asset test, including paying the $50,000 penalty tax, and, therefore, our qualification as a REIT should not be affected. The IRS is not bound by our determination, however, and no assurance can be provided that the IRS will not assert that we failed to comply with the REIT 5% gross asset test as a result of our investment in the fund and that such failure was not due to reasonable cause. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, including if we were found to have violated the 5% gross asset test and our failure was not due to reasonable cause, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates with no deductions for distributions made to shareholders. Further, in such event, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lose our REIT qualification. Accordingly, the loss of our REIT qualification would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the substantial tax liabilities that would be imposed on us. We might also be required to borrow funds or sell investments to pay the applicable tax. The Investment Advisor has not previously managed a REIT, and we cannot assure you that the past experience of its management will be sufficient to successfully manage our business as a REIT. The Investment Advisor has not previously managed a REIT, and the Investment Advisor does not have direct experience in complying with the income, asset and other limitations imposed by the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Those provisions are complex and the failure to comply with those provisions in a timely manner could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT or could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties. In such event, our net income would be reduced and we could incur a loss. We may be subject to tax on our undistributed net taxable income or be forced to borrow funds to make distributions required to qualify as a REIT. As a REIT, we must distribute 90% of our annual net taxable income (excluding net capital gains) to our shareholders and we are subject to regular corporate income tax to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our annual net taxable income. In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. In order to make distributions necessary to qualify as a REIT and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term, or possibly long-term, basis or sell properties, even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for borrowings or sales. In addition, we may utilize these funding sources to make distributions that exceed the amount we are required to distribute to qualify as a REIT; however, we will not use offering proceeds for this purpose. Our need for cash to make distributions could result from, among other things, a difference in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves and the repayment of indebtedness. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced U.S. federal income tax rates. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends payable by domestic corporations to individual U.S. shareholders (as such term is defined under “Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences” below) is 26 Table of Contents 15% (through 2010). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our shares. We will pay some taxes. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some U.S. federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property, including a 100% penalty tax if we receive payments for property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. To the extent that we are required to pay U.S. federal, state, local or foreign taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to our shareholders. The ability of our board of trustees to revoke our REIT election without shareholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our shareholders. Our charter provides that our board of trustees may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our shareholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interests to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income and we would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our shareholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to our shareholders and the value of our shares. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect investors. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in our shares. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of us or our shareholders. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our properties. If our assets are deemed to be ERISA plan assets, the Investment Advisor and we may be exposed to liabilities under Title I of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. In some circumstances where an ERISA plan holds an interest in an entity, the assets of the entire entity are deemed to be ERISA plan assets unless an exception applies. This is known as the “look-through rule.” Under those circumstances, the obligations and other responsibilities of plan sponsors, plan fiduciaries and plan administrators, and of parties in interest and disqualified persons, under Title I of ERISA and Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code, as applicable, may be applicable, and there may be liability under these and other provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. If the Investment Advisor or we are exposed to liability under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code, our performance and results of operations could be adversely affected. Prior to making an investment in us, you should consult with your legal and other advisors concerning the impact of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code on your investment and our performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2007, we did not have any unresolved comments with the staff of the SEC. 