D. Risk factors. Risks relating to our business Negative changes in China’s securities markets, economic conditions, inflation, regulatory policies, interests rates and other factors that could affect investors’ interests in investing in China’s securities markets could have an adverse effect on our business. We believe that the level of public interest in investing in China’s securities market could significantly influence the demand for market intelligence on China’s securities markets and our products. Such demand could be affected by the level of trading activity in China’s securities markets. During the past several years, China’s securities markets have experienced significant volatility. The benchmark Shanghai Stock Exchange A-Share Index declined 44.80%, from January, 2001 to December, 2005 and surged 124.33% between the start of 2006 and the market peak in October, 2007, despite of the severe corrections on February 27, 2007 and May 30, 2007, when China stock market declined approximately 9% and 7% on a single trading day, respectively. Then the Shanghai Stock Exchange A-Share Index declined 43% from late October, 2007 till the end of March, 2008. Any factors that lead to prolonged weakness or intensified volatility in China’s securities markets in the future may diminish investors’ interest in China’s securities markets, and our business could be adversely affected accordingly. China’s securities market is further limited by a lack of hedging instruments that would assist investors in hedging against market volatility. For example, investors are not permitted to sell short in China’s securities markets. Because our business is dependent on investors’ interest in China’s securities markets, our business could be materially and adversely affected if market volatility and the lack of hedging instruments continue to affect China’s securities markets and dampen investors’ interest in China’s securities markets. In response to the increased inflation rate during 2004, the Chinese government announced measures to restrict lending and investment in China in order to reduce inflationary pressure on China’s economy. In 2006 and 2007, the People’s Bank of China announced a series of basic interest rate increases and other measures to reduce inflationary pressure. If China experiences increased inflation in future, the Chinese government may introduce further measures intended to reduce the inflation rate in China. Any such measures adopted by the Chinese central bank may have an adverse effect on China’s securities markets, which could adversely impact our business. Downturns, disruptions and volatility in Hong Kong securities markets and negative developments in the business, economic, and market conditions that could affect investors’ interests in investing in Hong Kong securities markets could have adverse impact on our business in the future. Following the acquisition of Daily Growth Securities, we expect to provide a diversified portfolio of brokerage and informational service to our clients in connection with their investment in Hong Kong securities market. Lower trading volumes and price levels of securities transactions in Hong Kong securities market may affect investors’ interests in investing in Hong Kong securities markets and have adverse impact on our business in the future. Historically, securities trading volume in Hong Kong has fluctuated considerably. These fluctuations may result from regional and global economic, political and market conditions, broad trends in business and finance that are out of our control. Our securities brokerage business in Hong Kong operates in a highly regulated industry and compliance failures could adversely affect our business. With the acquisition of Daily Growth Securities, a licensed securities brokerage firm incorporated in Hong Kong, we provide a diversified portfolio brokerage and other related services to our 8 Table of Contents customers who invest in stocks listed on Hong Kong Stock Exchange. The securities brokerage business and operations in Hong Kong are subject to extensive regulations by Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission and Hong Kong Stock Exchange, which may increase our cost of doing business and may be a limiting factor on the operations and development of our securities brokerage business. The regulation on securities broker-dealer business is also an ever-changing area of law and is subject to modification by government, regulatory and judicial actions. As our business grows with the acquisition of Daily Growth Securities, we may devote more time to regulatory matters. Failure to comply with any of the laws, rules or regulations applicable to our securities brokerage business could lead to adverse consequences including, without limitation, investigations, fines, law suits and other penalties from regulatory agencies. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our securities broker-dealer business. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if new features and new research tools are not accepted by users. We currently offer to our subscribers a limited number of service packages with different features and functionalities. If we introduce a new feature or a new research tool that is not favorably received, our current subscribers may not continue to use our service as frequently as before. New subscribers could also choose a competitive or different service offering over ours. We may also experience difficulties that could delay or prevent us from introducing new research tools or features. Furthermore, these research tools or features may contain errors that are discovered after the services are introduced. We may need to significantly modify the design of these research tools or features to correct these errors. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we experience difficulties or delays in introducing new features and research tools or if these new features and research tools are not accepted by users. We have a limited operating history, which may make it difficult for you to evaluate our business. Our service offerings have only been commercially available since April 2001. Our senior management and employees have worked together at our company for only a relatively short period of time. Furthermore, the acquisition of CFO Genius, a financial information database provider mainly serving Chinese domestic institutional customers, in September 2006, our October 2006 acquisition of CFO Stockstar, a finance and securities website in China and November 2007 acquisition of Daily Growth Securities, a licensed securities brokerage firm incorporated in Hong Kong have altered the overall composition of company. Accordingly, we have a limited operating history upon which you can evaluate our business and prospects. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategies, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are pursuing a number of growth strategies, which will require us to expand our data and information content and service offerings through internal development efforts and through partnerships, joint ventures and acquisitions. Some of these strategies relate to new service offerings for which there are no established markets in China, or relate to service offerings in which we lack experience and expertise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to deliver new service offerings on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. In addition, online advertising business strategies may be developed in addition to our subscription-based service offerings. However, since we regard subscription-based services as our current core business and allocate a significant portion of the advertising inventories of our websites, namely, www.jrj.com and www.stockstar.com, to promote our subscription-based service offerings, to date, our current online advertising business has been limited. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively implement and grow our online advertising business, or that online advertising on our websites will not detract from our users’ 9 Table of Contents experience and thereby adversely affect our brand name or our subscription-based service offerings. If we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategies, our revenue and profitability will not grow as we expect, if at all, and our competitiveness may be materially and adversely affected. We face significant competition which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The online financial data and information services market in China is relatively new, has few substantial barriers to entry and is competitive and rapidly changing. More broadly, the number of financial news and information sources competing for consumers’ attention and spending has increased since we commenced operations and we expect that competition will continue to intensify. We currently compete, directly and indirectly, for paying subscribers and viewers with companies in the business of providing financial data and information services, including publishers and distributors of traditional media, Internet portals providing information on business, finance and investing, dedicated financial information websites, personal stock research software vendors and stock brokerage companies, especially stock brokerage companies with online trading capabilities. Some of the sponsors with whom we currently maintain sponsorship arrangements could also become our competitors in the future. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. This may allow them to adopt our business model and devote greater resources than we can to the development and promotion of service offerings similar to or more advanced than our own. These competitors may also engage in more extensive research and development, undertake more far-reaching marketing campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer products and services that achieve greater market acceptance than ours. They may also undercut us by making more attractive offers to our existing and potential employees, content providers and sponsors. New and increased competition could result in price reductions for our research tools, reduced margin or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to us, many companies in China offer stock quotes, economic and company-specific news, historical stock performance statistics, online chatting regarding individual securities and other features for free over the Internet. If users determine that the information available for free over the Internet is sufficient for their investing needs, they would be unlikely to pay for subscription to our services, thus reducing our revenues and net income and forcing us to develop a new business model. Furthermore, the amount and quality of information available for free over the Internet may expand in the future, reducing the attractiveness of our services and forcing us to spend additional money to develop more sophisticated services in order to compete. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in developing a new business model or more advanced services in response to either of the above challenges. Failure to do so would lead to significant declines in our number of subscribers, revenues and net income. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if the stock exchanges from which we receive data and information fail to deliver us reliable data and price quotes or other trading related information, or if we cannot maintain our current business relationships with our historical data providers on commercially reasonable terms. We depend on two securities data providers associated with the Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges to provide us with real-time stock, bond and mutual fund quotes and other trading related information. We primarily rely on contractual arrangements with Shanghai Stock 10 Table of Contents Exchange Information Network Co., Ltd., which is associated with the Shanghai Stock Exchange, and with Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd., which is associated with the Shenzhen Stock Exchange, pursuant to which we pay fixed service fees in exchange for receiving real-time price quotes and other trading related information through satellite communication. In June 2006, we are certified by Shanghai Stock Exchange Information Network Co., Ltd. to develop service packages based on Level II quotes (which provide insight into stock price movements and provide faster and more comprehensive trading data), and upgrade the features and functions of our current products. The definitive agreement is contemplated to continue through July 31, 2009. In January 2008, we entered into a license agreement with Shanghai Stock Exchange Information Network Co., Ltd. to distribute TopView (which reveals valuable statistics, such as trading volume and prices of various types of trading accounts). The agreement authorizes us to use TopView to enhance features and functionalities of our existing products and develop new product offerings. The definitive agreement is contemplated to continue through December 12, 2008. Our contract with Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. is in the process of being renewed. Any disruption in our ability to secure data, price quotes or other trading related information on timely basis either through technical issues or through our inability to maintain and renew our contracts with the Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges will have a material adverse effect on our business. We have also transitioned the primary source of historical data and information on listed companies, bonds and mutual funds to Shenzhen Genius Information Technology Co. Ltd., or CFO Genius, which we acquired in September 2006. Starting from May 2007, CFO Genius has become our primary provider of historical data and information, thereby mitigating our reliance on third-party backup providers of such historical data and information. Though we maintain raw data provision contracts with Financial China Information & Technology Co., Ltd. and Shanghai Gildata Service Co., Ltd. as alternative sources of historical data and information, any problems arising in or any disruption to CFO Genius as the primary provider of historical data and information will have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into business arrangements with either of the two securities data providers associated with the Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, after our current contracts expire. We cannot assure you that the two securities data providers will not charge us service fees substantially higher than the service fees we are currently paying. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if either of our two securities data providers imposes on us service fees substantially higher than the service fees we are currently paying. Even if we are able to maintain our current business arrangements for data on commercially reasonable terms, either of the two securities data providers may fail to deliver us reliable price quotes or other trading related information. In either case, it would be difficult for us to receive reliable real-time price quotes and other trading related information from a different source, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Additionally, we cannot assure you that we will be able to enter into or maintain our business arrangements with our current data providers on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In this case, it could take time for us to locate alternative providers of comprehensive historical data and information on commercially reasonable terms, which could cause disruptions to our operations and adversely affect our business. Even if we are able to find alternative data providers, they may fail to deliver to us reliable and comprehensive data and information in accordance with our specifications and requirements, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business would be adversely affected if we do not continue to expand and maintain an effective telemarketing and customer support force. We market our service offerings through our websites, as well as through our telemarketing and customer service centers in Beijing and Shanghai. In addition to sales and marketing functions, 11 Table of Contents we depend on our customer support force to explain our service offerings to our existing and potential subscribers and resolve our subscribers’ technical problems. Many of our telemarketing and customer support personnel have only worked for us for a short period of time, and some of them may not have received sufficient training or gained sufficient experience to effectively serve our customers. In addition, we will need to further increase the size of our customer support force as our business continues to grow. We may not be able to hire, retain, integrate or motivate additional customer support personnel without any short-term disruptions of our operations. As a result, our business could be adversely affected if we do not continue to expand and maintain an effective customer support force. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. An active acquisition program is an important element of our corporate strategy. For example, we acquired CFO Genius, a financial information database provider mainly serving Chinese domestic institutional customers, in September 2006. In October 2006, we acquired CFO Stockstar, a leading finance and securities website in China. In November 2007, we acquired Daily Growth Securities, a licensed securities brokerage firm incorporated in Hong Kong. We may not be able to achieve all of the benefits of the business combination or to successfully integrate CFO Stockstar’s, CFO Genius’s and Daily Growth Securities’ operations into ours. While CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius and Daily Growth Securities contributed positive operating cash flows on a collective basis in 2007, we cannot assure you that they will continue to do so. Moreover, we expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. Risks we may encounter in acquisitions include: • the acquisition may not further our business strategy, or we may pay more than it is worth; • we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues if we are unable to sell the acquired company’s products to our customer base, or the acquired contract models of acquired contract models companies; • we may have difficulty identifying suitable acquisition opportunities and integrating acquired companies with our existing operations or their products and services with our existing products and services; • we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products; • we may have multiple and overlapping product lines that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; • our due diligence process may fail to identify problems, such as issues with unlicensed use of intellectual property; • we may have legal and tax exposures or lose anticipated tax benefits as a result of unforeseen difficulties in our legal entity integration activities; • we may face contingencies related to intellectual property, financial disclosures and accounting practices or internal controls; • our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s attention may be diverted by transition or integration issues; and 12 Table of Contents • to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing ADS holders and shareholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple concurrent acquisitions. Our plan to make strategic investments may negatively affect our business due to the poor financial condition and operating performance of those companies we invest in and other risks. As part of our business strategy, we may also make strategic investments intended to facilitate the introduction of new service offerings as well as to add capabilities that we do not currently have. For example, we invested in Moloon International, Inc., or Moloon, a Chinese wireless technology and service provider, in December 2005. However, the financial condition and operating results of companies we invest in such as Moloon could negatively affect our business and financial condition. Government regulations may adversely affect the business of companies we invest in, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business. For example, following an independent valuation of our cost method investment in Moloon, it was determined that a decline in value had occurred and we recorded a non-cash investment impairment of $11.13 million in 2007, reducing the carrying balance of such investment from $12.61 million to $1.48 million, 88% off the book value. In the future, we may also consider further strategic investments and partnerships with companies that specialize in non-exchange traded financial products in order to acquire their expertise in that area which we believe are difficult to obtain otherwise. Our ability to successfully make strategic investments will depend on the availability of suitable candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to compete effectively to attract and reach agreement with strategic partners on commercially reasonable terms, the availability of financing to complete larger acquisitions or joint ventures, as well as our ability to obtain any required governmental approvals. In addition, the benefits of a partnership or joint venture transaction may take considerable time to develop, and we cannot assure you that any particular partnership or joint venture will produce the intended benefits. For example, we may experience difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our existing operations and personnel. The identification and completion of these transactions may require significant management time and resources. Moreover, the partnership and joint venture strategies we pursue could also cause earnings or ownership dilution to our shareholders’ interests, which could result in losses to investors. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if increased usage strains our server systems or if we suffer from other system malfunctions. In the past, our websites have experienced significant increases in traffic when there are significant business developments, financial news and activities, or stock market trading activities. In addition, the number of our users has continued to increase over time and we are seeking to further increase our user base. Therefore, our website must accommodate a high volume of traffic to meet peak user demand and deliver frequently updated information. Our websites have in the past experienced and may in the future experience slower response time or login delays for a variety of reasons. It is essential to our success that our websites are able to accommodate our users in an efficient manner so that our users’ experience with us is viewed favorably and without frequent delays. We also depend on other Internet content providers, such as other financial information websites, to provide data and information to our website on a timely basis. Our websites could experience disruptions or interruptions in service due to the failure or delay in the transmission or receipt of this information. In addition, our users depend on Internet service providers, online service 13 Table of Contents providers and other website operators for access to our website. Each of them has experienced significant outages in the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems. These types of occurrences could cause users to perceive our website as not functioning properly and therefore cause them to use other methods to obtain the financial data and information services they need. If we are not able to respond successfully to technological or industry developments, our business may be materially and adversely affected. The online financial data and information services market is characterized by rapid advancements in technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. New services or technologies may render our existing services or technologies less competitive or obsolete. Responding and adapting to technological developments and standard changes in our industry, the integration of new technologies or industry standards or the upgrading of our networks may require substantial time, effort and capital investment. In the event that we are unable to respond successfully to technological industry developments, this may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and competitiveness. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against claims based on the content and services we provide through our website and our research tools. Due to the manner in which we obtain, collect, categorize and integrate content for our website, and because our services, including our online bulletin boards and discussion forums, may be used for the distribution of information and expression of opinions, claims may be filed against us for defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of such information. For example, our bulletin boards and online forums reflect the statements and views of persons we do not control and we cannot be assured that such information is true and correct and is not misleading. These persons may also have conflicts of interest in relation to their statements or views regarding securities or other financial matters. Liability insurance for these types of claims is not currently available in the PRC. While we do not take responsibility for statements or views presented on our website, we may incur significant costs investigating and defending these types of claims even if they do not result in liability. Any such claim may also damage our reputation if our users and subscribers do not view this content as reliable or accurate, which could adversely affect our business. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our website content, online services and our research tools do not or will not infringe upon patents, valid copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us may result in substantial monetary liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secret and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property used in our business may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and 14 Table of Contents confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures in the PRC do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success is dependent upon the continued service of our key executives and employees. We rely on their expertise in our business operations. If one or more of our key executives were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, or if they joined a competitor or formed a competing company in violation of their employment agreements, we may not be able to replace them easily. As a result, our business may be significantly disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future. Prior to January 1, 2008, our employees were required to enter into one-year employment agreements with us. Starting from January 1, 2008, our employees are required to enter into at a minimum two-year employment agreements with us to be in compliance with the PRC Labor Contract Law becoming effective January 1, 2008. We seek to enter into employment and non-competition agreements with our senior executives for longer terms. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key personnel. Recent changes in the PRC’s labor law restrict our ability to reduce our workforce in the PRC in the event of an economic downturn and may increase our labor costs. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted new labor law legislation called the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. It formalizes workers’ rights concerning overtime hours, pensions, layoffs, employment contracts and the role of trade unions. Considered one of the strictest labor laws in the world, among other things, this new law provides for specific standards and procedures for the termination of an employment contract and places the burden of proof on the employer. In addition, the law requires the payment of a statutory severance pay upon the termination of an employment contract in most cases, including the case of the expiration of a fixed-term employment contract. Further, the law requires an employer to conclude an “employment contract without a fixed-term” with any employee who either has worked for the same employer for 10 consecutive years or more or has had two consecutive fixed term contracts with the same employer. An “employment contract without a fixed term” can no longer be terminated on the ground of the expiration of the contract, although it can still be terminated pursuant to the standards and procedures set forth under the new law. Because of the lack of implementing rules for the new law and the precedents for the enforcement of such a law, the standards and procedures set forth under the law in relation to the termination of an employment contract have raised concerns among foreign investment enterprises in the PRC that such “employment contract without a fixed term” might in fact become a “lifetime, permanent employment contract.” Finally, under the new law, downsizing of either more than 20 people or more than 10% of the workforce may occur only under specified circumstances, such as a restructuring undertaken pursuant to the PRC’s Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, or where a company 15 Table of Contents suffers serious difficulties in business operations, or where there has been a material change in the objective economic circumstances relied upon by the parties at the time of the conclusion of the employment contract, thereby making the performance of such employment contract not possible. Again, there has been very little guidance and precedents as to how such specified circumstances for downsizing will be interpreted and enforced by the relevant PRC authorities. All of our employees working for us exclusively within the PRC are covered by the new law and thus, our ability to adjust the size of our operations when necessary in periods of recession or less severe economic downturns may be curtailed. Accordingly, if we face future periods of decline in business activity generally or adverse economic periods specific to our business, this new law can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on our results of operations and financial condition. Undetected programming errors or defects in our research tools could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our research tools may contain programming errors or other defects that our internal testing did not detect, which are commonly referred to as programming bugs. The occurrence of undetected errors or defects in our research tools could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation and detract from the experience of our users. As a result, such errors and defects could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If tax benefits currently available to us in PRC were no longer available under the new Enterprise Income Taxes (“EIT”) law which became effective on January 1, 2008, our effective income tax rates for our PRC operations could increase. Our operating subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC are governed by the PRC income tax law, which included until December 31, 2007, the Income Tax Law of the People’s Republic of China for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises and the Provisional Regulations of the People’s Republic of China on Enterprises Income Tax, and, prior to January 1, 2008, were generally subject to the PRC enterprise income tax rate of 33%. Some of our operating subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC enjoy preferential tax treatments, including reduced tax rates, tax holidays or tax refunds, provided by either the PRC government or its local agencies or bureaus. For example, as a foreign invested “ Software Enterprise”, CFO Beijing was granted by the Beijing branch of the PRC tax bureau two tax incentives that have the effect of: • Exempting the company from state income tax for 2003 and 2004; and • Providing the company a preferential state income tax rate of 12% from 2005 to 2007, the rate currently applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises based in Beijing and not subject to other tax holidays. Similarly, in December 2004, we established our subsidiary CFO Software in Beijing that was classified by the Beijing local government as a foreign invested high-technology company. With the classification of a foreign invested high-technology company, CFO Software expects to receive tax incentives provided to such companies from the Beijing branch of the PRC tax bureau that have the effect of: • Exempting the company from enterprise income tax from 2005 to 2007; and • Providing the company a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 7.5% from 2008 to 2010, and 15% for taxable years thereafter, the rate currently applicable to companies classified as high-technology companies based in Beijing and not subject to other tax holidays, provided that the company continues to be qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” under the newly enacted PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law taking effect as of January 1, 2008. 16 Table of Contents Furthermore, prior to January 1, 2008 CFO Stockstar, CFO Zhengning CFO Genius , and CFO Jujin , each enjoys a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% rather than the enterprise income tax rate of 33% applicable to domestic PRC companies generally and is not subject to other tax holidays. In the absence of these incentives, our operating subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC would be subject to the enterprise income tax rate of 33% applicable to domestic PRC companies generally prior to January 1, 2008. If our PRC incorporated subsidiaries had not received these preferential tax treatments and were required to pay enterprise income tax at the same rate as domestic PRC companies, our business would be adversely affected. The newly enacted PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and the implementation regulations to the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, became effective as of January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, China adopted a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises (including domestically-owned enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises) and revoked the previous tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. However, there is a transitional period for certain enterprises, whether foreign-invested or domestic, during which they are allowed to continue to enjoy their existing preferential tax treatments provided by the then applicable tax laws and administrative regulations. Enterprises that were subject to an enterprise income tax rate lower than 25% prior to January 1, 2008 may continue to enjoy the lower rate and gradually transition to the new tax rate within five years after the effective date of the EIT Law. Enterprises that were entitled to exemptions or reductions from the standard income tax rate for a fixed term prior to January 1, 2008 may continue to enjoy such treatment until the fixed term expires. Preferential tax treatments may continue to be granted to industries and projects that are strongly supported and encouraged by the state, and enterprises otherwise classified as “new and high technology enterprises strongly supported by the state” are entitled to a 15% enterprise income tax rate. Most of our operating subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC are classified as “Software Enterprise” and their qualifications to continue to be entitled to the tax incentives granted to Software Enterprise prior to January 1, 2008 are being reviewed by relevant tax authorities . The status of certain of our PRC subsidiaries as a “high and new technology enterprise” will be subject to review on regular basis. Certain of our other PRC subsidiaries qualified as a “high and new technology enterprise” under the definition promulgated by the prior enterprise income tax law in effect before January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, the qualifications for “high and new technology enterprise” status have not yet been defined. We cannot assure you that certain of our other PRC subsidiaries will continue to qualify as a “high and new technology enterprise” in future periods. If any of our PRC subsidiaries fails to qualify as a “high and new technology enterprise,” our income tax expenses would increase, which would have a material and adverse effect on our net income and results of operations. In addition, with respect to revenue generated from the sale of certain online subscription , including our service packages, CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Zhengning, CFO Meining, CFO Genius and CFO Jujin all obtain value-added-tax, or VAT, refunds that reduce their effective VAT rates from 17% to 3%. We cannot assure you that we will continue to enjoy any of these preferential tax treatments in the future. The discontinuation of any of these preferential tax treatments could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. Any significant increase in our income tax expenses may have a material adverse effect on our profit for the year. Reduction or elimination of the financial subsidies or preferential tax treatments we enjoyed prior to January 1, 2008 or imposition of additional taxes on us or our combined entities in China may significantly increase our income tax expenses and materially reduce our net income, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The newly enacted PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and the implementation regulations for the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, became effective as of January 1, 2008. The EIT Law provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10% through the implementation regulations unless any such non-PRC investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. We are a Hong Kong incorporated company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. According to Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Arrangement on Avoiding Double Taxation or Evasion of Taxation on Income agreed between the Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in August 2006, dividends payable by subsidiary located in the PRC to the company in Hong Kong who directly holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the subsidiary will be subject to a no more than 5% withholding tax. Since the preferential withholding tax is subject to the approval from competent taxation authorities in PRC, it remains uncertain whether our company in Hong Kong actually would be able to enjoy preferential withholding taxes for dividends distributed by our subsidiaries in China. Thus, dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China may be subject to the 5% income tax if we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law. If we are required under the EIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The EIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations for the EIT Law issued by the PRC State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Although substantially all of our operational management is currently based in the PRC, it is unclear whether PRC tax authorities would require (or permit) us to be treated as a PRC resident enterprise. If we are treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempt from Chinese dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the new EIT Law to a PRC resident recipient. Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends on post 2007 earnings payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise,” it is unclear whether 18 Table of Contents dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Depending upon the value of our shares and ADSs and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, by the United States Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we are classified as a “PFIC” in any taxable year in which you hold our ADSs and you are a U.S. investor, you would generally be taxed at higher ordinary income, rather than lower capital gain rates, if you dispose of ADSs at a gain in a later year, even if we are not a PFIC in that year. In addition, a portion of the tax imposed on your gain would be increased by an interest charge. Moreover, if we were classified as a PFIC in any taxable year, you would not be able to benefit from any preferential tax rate with respect to any dividend distribution that you may receive from us in that year or in the following year. Finally, you would also be subject to special U.S. tax reporting requirements. We believe that we were not a PFIC for the taxable year 2007. However, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the taxable year 2008 and/or later taxable years, as PFIC status is re-tested each year and depends on the facts in such year. For example, we would be a PFIC for the taxable year 2008 if the sum of our average market capitalization, which is our share price multiplied by the total amount of our outstanding shares, and our liabilities over that taxable year is not more than twice the value of our cash, cash equivalents, and other assets that are readily converted into cash. We could also be a PFIC for any taxable year if the gross income that we and our subsidiaries earn from investing the portion of the cash raised in our initial public offering in 2004 that exceeds the immediate capital needs of our active business is substantial in comparison with the gross income from our business operations. While we will continue to examine our results under the PFIC tests, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for any future taxable year. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC please see “Taxation — United States federal income taxation — U.S. Holders — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” Because there is limited business insurance coverage in China, any business disruption or litigation we experience might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance make having such insurance impractical for us. Risks relating to our industry The Internet infrastructure in China, which is not as well developed as in the United States or other more developed countries, may limit our growth. 19 Table of Contents The Internet infrastructure in China is not as well developed as in the United States or other more developed countries. In particular, we depend significantly on the PRC government and fixed line telecommunications operators in China to establish and maintain a reliable Internet infrastructure to reach a growing base of Internet users in China. We cannot assure you that the Internet infrastructure in China will support the demands associated with the continued growth of the Internet industry in China. If the necessary infrastructure standards or protocols, or complementary products, services or facilities are not developed in China on a timely basis or at all by these enterprises, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access with respect to per capita gross domestic product may limit the development of the Internet in China and impede our growth. Although the use of personal computers in China has increased in recent years, the penetration rate for personal computers in China is much lower than in the United States. In addition, despite a decrease in the cost of Internet access in China due to a decrease in the cost of personal computers and the introduction and expansion of broadband access, the cost of Internet access remains relatively high in comparison to the average per capita income in China. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access may limit the growth of our business. Furthermore, any Internet access or telecommunications fee increase could reduce the number of users that use our online services. Any fee or tariff increase could further decrease our user traffic and our ability to derive revenues from transactions over the Internet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend largely on the infrastructure of the telecommunications operators in China, and any interruption of their network infrastructure may result in severe disruptions to our business. Although private Internet service providers exist in China, substantially all access to the Internet in China is maintained through the telecommunications operators, under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information, or MII. In addition, local networks connect to the Internet through a government-owned international gateway. We rely on this infrastructure and to a lesser extent, certain other Internet data centers in China to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. In the event of a large-scale infrastructure disruption or failure, we may not have access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis or at all. We may not be able to lease additional bandwidth from the telecommunications operators in China on acceptable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, we may not have means of getting access to alternative networks and services on a timely basis or at all in the event of any disruption or failure of the network. Unexpected network interruptions, security breaches or computer virus attacks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited backup systems and have previously experienced system failures, which have disrupted our operations. Any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure may cause significant harm to our reputation and our ability to attract and maintain users. Major risks involved in such network infrastructure include: • Any break-downs or system failures resulting in a sustained shutdown of all or a material portion of our servers, including failures which may be attributable to sustained power 20 Table of Contents shutdowns, or efforts to gain unauthorized access to our systems causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware; and • Any disruption or failure in the national backbone network, which would prevent our users from logging on to our website or accessing our services. Our network systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer virus, hackings and similar events. Any network interruption or inadequacy that causes interruptions in the availability of our services or deterioration in the quality of access to our services could reduce our user satisfaction and competitiveness. In addition, any security breach caused by hackings, which involve efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could cause our users to question the safety or reliability of our website and our services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, unauthorized access by third parties to our network could result in theft of personal user information, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation. Concerns about the security and confidentiality of information on the Internet may increase our costs, reduce the use of our website and impede our growth. A significant barrier to confidential communications over the Internet has been the need for security. To date, there have been several well-publicized compromises of security as a result of global virus outbreaks. We may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. If unauthorized persons are able to penetrate our network security, they could misappropriate proprietary information, including personal information regarding our subscribers, or cause interruptions in our services. As a result, we may be required to incur substantial costs and divert our other resources to protect against or to alleviate these problems. Security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to regulation of our business and to our structure We rely on contractual arrangements with CFO Fuhua, CFO Glory and CFO Premium, our PRC-incorporated affiliates, and their shareholders for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. If the affiliates fail to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements or PRC laws impair the enforceability of these contracts, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Because PRC regulations restrict our ability to provide Internet content directly in China, we rely on contractual arrangements with CFO Fuhua, our PRC-incorporated affiliate over which we have no direct ownership, and its shareholders for operating our website and conducting our advertising business. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over CFO Fuhua as direct ownership. If we had direct ownership of CFO Fuhua, we would be able to exercise our rights as shareholders to effect changes in the board of directors, which in turn could effect changes, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if CFO Fuhua fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to (i) incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and (ii) rely on legal remedies under PRC law, which we cannot be sure would be effective. In addition, we cannot be certain that the individual equity owners of CFO Fuhua will always act in the best interests of China Finance Online, especially if they leave the company. 21 Table of Contents In 2007, we entered into contractual arrangements with CFO Glory and CFO Premium, our PRC-incorporated affiliates over which we have no direct ownership, with the intention of using these two companies as vehicles to acquire PRC domestic companies to operate business, which we are restricted from conducting directly by PRC regulations. Under the contractual arrangements, CFO Glory and CFO Premium will pay us service fees in return for our strategic consulting and technology support services. Currently CFO Glory and CFO Premium have no substantive business operation. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing us with control over CFO Glory and CFO Premium as direct ownership. These contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. If CFO Fuhua, CFO Glory or CFO Premium fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot be sure would be effective. In addition, the legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event that we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If the PRC government finds that the financial data and information services we provide do not comply with Chinese laws and regulations relating to the provision of securities investment advisory services, we may suffer severe disruption to our business operations and lose substantially all of our revenue. PRC laws require entities providing securities investment advisory services to the public to obtain a securities advisory business permit from the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC. On May 30, 2002, we received a notice from the CSRC requesting that we stop promotional activities of our service offerings involving investment advisory content and alter the relevant content of our website and offerings so that we are no longer deemed to be providing investment advisory related offerings. Promptly after receipt of such notice, we entered into a business cooperation agreement with a securities advisory company licensed to provide securities advisory services, pursuant to which we receive modeling advice and data processing advice for the development of all of our research tools. We subsequently filed a written report with the CSRC on July 18, 2002, explaining our business arrangements with the securities advisory company. Since that time, we have entered into similar business cooperation agreements with five other licensed securities advisory companies. We have not received any further notices from the CSRC since the filing and have been providing financial data and information services under this business framework since that time. We cannot assure you that the CSRC will not revisit this issue and take a position contrary to our interests. If we are found to be in violation of Chinese laws and regulations relating to the provision of securities investment advisory services, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including imposing monetary penalties on us, ordering us to shut down our websites or forcing us to pursue alternative business objectives other than offering financial data and information services. We may alternatively seek to apply for a securities advisory permit, but we cannot assure that we will be able to secure one. As a result of the possible penalties imposed on us, if the CSRC were to conclude that we provide securities investment advisory services, we could suffer severe disruption to our business operations and lose substantially all of our revenue. If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our China business do not comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the online financial data and information service industry, we could be subject to severe penalties. 22 Table of Contents PRC regulations currently limit foreign ownership of companies that provide Internet content services, which include operating financial data and information services through the Internet, to be no more than 50%. Accordingly, foreign and wholly foreign-owned enterprises are currently not able to apply for the required licenses for operating such services in China. We are a Hong Kong company. We conducted our operations in China solely through CFO Beijing, our wholly owned subsidiary from April 2000 to December 2004. In late 2006, we acquired CFO Stockstar and CFO Genius, and currently conduct our operations in China primarily through CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom and CFO Success. We are a foreign enterprise and each of our subsidiaries, CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom and CFO Success is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise under PRC law, and accordingly, neither we, CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom and CFO Success is eligible to apply for licenses to operate our website. In order to comply with foreign ownership restrictions, we operate our website in China through CFO Fuhua and its wholly owned subsidiary CFO Meining, both of which hold the licenses required to be an Internet information content provider under the relevant PRC laws. Zhiwei Zhao, our chief executive officer, and Jun Wang, our chief financial officer, hold 45% and 55% of the equity interests in CFO Fuhua, respectively. We have been and are expected to continue to be dependent on CFO Fuhua and its wholly owned subsidiary CFO Meining to host our websites, www.jrj.com and www.stockstar.com. We have entered into contractual arrangements with CFO Fuhua, pursuant to which we provide operational support to CFO Fuhua. In addition, we have entered into agreements with CFO Fuhua and Zhiwei Zhao and Jun Wang, the shareholders of CFO Fuhua, which provide us with the substantial ability to control CFO Fuhua. Wu Chen, a financial manager at International Data Group China Ltd., a PRC company affiliated with IDG Technology Venture Investment, Inc. and IDG Technology Venture Investments, LP, two of our principal shareholders, transferred his holdings in CFO Fuhua to Jun Wang, our current chief financial officer, in October 2007. As a result, Jun Wang replaced Wu Chen as a party to all of the agreements we entered into with Wu Chen in connection with his holdings in CFO Fuhua and the operation of CFO Fuhua. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will not ultimately take a view that our arrangements with CFO Fuhua comply with PRC law. If we, CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom, CFO Success, CFO Fuhua, and CFO Meining are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • Revoking business and operating licenses of CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom, CFO Success, CFO Fuhua or CFO Meining; • Discontinuing or restricting our operations or those of CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom, CFO Success, CFO Fuhua or CFO Meining; • Imposing conditions or requirements with which we, CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom, CFO Success, CFO Fuhua or CFO Meining; 23 Table of Contents • Requiring us, CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom, CFO Success, CFO Fuhua or CFO Meining to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; • Restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds of our initial public offering in 2004 to finance our business and operations in China; or • Taking other regulatory or enforcement actions, including levying fines that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer and the price of our ADSs to decline. Our contractual arrangements with CFO Fuhua may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and create a potential double layer of taxation for our revenue-generating services conducted by CFO Fuhua. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contracts between CFO Beijing and CFO Fuhua were not entered into based on arm’s-length negotiations. Although we based these contractual arrangements on those of similar businesses, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s-length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by CFO Beijing or CFO Stockstar, which could adversely affect us by increasing the tax liabilities of CFO Beijing or CFO Stockstar without reducing the tax liabilities of CFO Fuhua, because CFO Fuhua currently does not operate profitably. These increased tax liabilities could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to CFO Beijing and CFO Fuhua for under-paid taxes. We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our wholly owned operating subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. We are a holding company, and we rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom and CFO Success for our cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur. If any of CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar , CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom or CFO Success incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict such entity’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. In addition, PRC tax authorities may require us to amend the contractual arrangements CFO Beijing currently has in place with CFO Fuhua in a manner that would materially and adversely affect CFO Beijing’s ability to pay dividends and other distributions to us. Furthermore, PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom or CFO Success only out of their net income, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC law, CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom and CFO Success are also required to set aside a portion of their net income each year to fund specified reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Any limitation on the ability of CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom and CFO Success to make dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our businesses, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. The PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that it believes is inappropriate. 24 Table of Contents China has enacted laws and regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news, information or other content, as well as products and services, through the Internet. In the past, the PRC government has stopped the distribution of information through the Internet that it believes violates PRC law. The Ministry of Industry and Information, or MII, the General Administration of Press and Publication and the Ministry of Culture has promulgated regulations which prohibit information from being distributed through the Internet if it contains content that is found to, among other things, propagate obscenity, gambling or violence, instigate crimes, undermine public morality or the cultural traditions of the PRC, or compromise State security or secrets. In addition, the MII has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for content included on their websites and the actions of users and others using their systems, including liability for violations of PRC laws prohibiting the distribution of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. The PRC’s Ministry of Public Security has the authority to order any local Internet service provider, or ISP, to block any Internet website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the distribution over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The PRC’s State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of State secrets of the PRC government, is authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking State secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of State secrets in the distribution of online information. Under applicable PRC regulation, we may be held liable for any content we offer or will offer through our website, including information posted on bulletin boards and online forums which we host and maintain on our website. Furthermore, we are required to delete any content we transmit through our website if such content clearly violates PRC laws and regulations. Where any content is considered suspicious, we are required to report such content to PRC governmental authorities. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us. If any financial data and information services we offer or will offer through our website were deemed to have violated any of such content restrictions, we would not be able to continue such offerings and could be subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of licenses for operating online financial data and information services, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, if any information posted on our bulletin boards or online forums were deemed to have violated any of the content restrictions, we could be subject to similar penalties that materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to the People’s Republic of China Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect the financial markets in China and our business. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. 25 Table of Contents The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect the financial markets in China and our business and operations. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past 28 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC operating subsidiaries, CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar , CFO Genius, CFO Jujing, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom and CFO Success, respectively, are wholly foreign-owned enterprises, which are enterprises incorporated in China and wholly owned by foreign investors. Our wholly foreign-owned enterprises are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises in particular. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are constantly changing, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Substantially all of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. Renminbi is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends, trade and service related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar and , CFO Genius, CFO Jujing, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom and CFO Success, may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions,” including payment of dividends to us and payment of license fees and service fees to foreign licensors and service providers, without the approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange. CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujing, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom and CFO Success may also retain foreign exchange in their current accounts to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC governmental authorities will not limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be in the form of Renminbi, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. 26 Table of Contents Because our earnings and cash from operations are denominated in Renminbi, fluctuations in exchange rates between U.S. dollars and Renminbi will affect our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. The People’s Bank of China sets and publishes daily a base exchange rate. Until July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China allowed this rate to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band with reference primarily to the supply and demand of Renminbi against the U.S. dollar in the market during the prior day; beginning on July 21, 2005, the People’s Bank of China has allowed this rate to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band with reference primarily to the supply and demand of Renminbi against a basket of currencies in the market during the prior day, and the People’s Bank of China also takes into account other factors such as the general conditions existing in the international foreign exchange markets. As a result of this policy change, Renminbi appreciated approximately 3.2% and 6.4 % against the U.S. dollar in 2006 and 2007, respectively. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in more significant fluctuation of Chinese Renminbi against the U.S. dollar. We can offer no assurance that Renminbi will be stable against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. Our statements of operations of our international operations are translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rates in each applicable period. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currencies denominated transactions results in reduced revenues, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. Similarly, to the extent the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in increased revenues, operating expenses and net income for our international operations. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our operations into U.S. dollars. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. Risks relating to our shares and ADSs Stock prices of Internet-related companies, particularly companies with business operations primarily in China, have fluctuated widely in recent years, and the trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of our ADSs have been volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to factors beyond our control. Since the completion of our initial public offering in October 2004, the trading prices of our ADSs have ranged between a high of $47.68 per ADS to a low of $3.95 per ADS. During the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2007, the price of our ADSs on the NASDAQ Global Market has ranged from a low of $4.53 to a high of $47.68 per ADS. The market prices of the securities of Internet-related companies have generally been especially volatile. In particular, the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other technology companies with business operations mainly in China that have listed their securities in the U.S. may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes for our ADSs. Recently, a number of PRC companies have listed their securities, or are in the process of preparing for listing their securities, on U.S. stock markets. Some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including significant price declines in connection with their initial public offerings. The trading performances of these Chinese companies’ securities at the time of or after their offerings may 27 Table of Contents affect the overall investor sentiment towards PRC companies listed in the U.S. and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs. Changes in the US stock market generally or as it concerns the Company’s industry, as well as geopolitical, economic, and business factors unrelated to the Company, may also affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for business specific reasons. Factors such as variations in our revenue, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our services could cause the market price for our ADSs to change substantially. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. We cannot give any assurance that these factors will not occur in the future. If we grant employee share options and other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be materially and adversely affected. We adopted the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, or the Plan, in January 2004, and amended the Plan in September 2004 and August 2006. As of December 31, 2007, we had granted options under the Plan with the right to purchase a total of 15,239,488 ordinary shares, of which 1,560,640 unvested options had been returned to the pool of our ungranted options as a result of resignation from employment by a few former employees. We had also granted share options to purchase up to 6,829,500 ordinary shares in January 2004, under option agreements that were independent of the Plan, to other consultants and business advisors of the company. In July, 2007, we granted restricted stock awards covering 10,558,493 ordinary shares of the Company under our 2007 Equity Incentive Plan to our employees who are eligible for the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan. Until December 31, 2005 we accounted for options granted to our directors and employees and restricted stock granted to our employees in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” or APB 25, and its related interpretations, which require us to recognize compensation expenses for share options we grant where the exercise price is less than the deemed fair value of our ordinary shares on the date of the grant. However, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, has issued Statement No. 123 (Revised 2004), “Share-Based Payments,” or SFAS 123(R), which requires all companies to recognize, as an expense, the fair value of share options and other share-based compensation to employees at the beginning of the first annual or interim period after June 15, 2005. As a result, beginning on January 1, 2006, we account for compensation costs for all share options including share options granted to our directors and employees and restricted shares granted to our employees using a fair-value based method and recognize expenses in our consolidated statement of operations in accordance with the relevant rules under U.S. GAAP, which may have a material and adverse effect on our reported earnings. Moreover, the additional expenses associated with share-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of such incentive plan to us. However, if we reduce the scope of the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and 2007 Equity Incentive Plan, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel, as share options and restricted shares are an important employee recruitment and retention tool. If we grant employee share options or other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be adversely affected. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market in the future, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our ADSs. 28 Table of Contents There were 109,754,433 of our ordinary shares including 15,656,231 ADSs (representing 78,281,155 of those ordinary shares) outstanding as of March 31, 2008. In addition, there are outstanding options to purchase an additional 8,985,708 ordinary shares, including options to purchase 1,405,000 ordinary shares that are vested and immediately exercisable. Their ordinary shares, once issued, are exchangeable for our ADSs for trading in the public market. The 82,837,921 ordinary shares that were outstanding prior to our initial public offering are “restricted securities” as defined in Rule 144 and may not be sold in the absence of registration other than in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act or another exemption from registration. These “restricted securities” are available for sale subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. To the extent ordinary shares are sold to the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. A significant percentage of our outstanding ordinary shares are held by a small number of our shareholders, and these shareholders may have significantly greater influence on us and our corporate actions by nature of the size of their shareholdings relative to our public shareholders. As of March 31, 2008, six of our existing shareholders, including IDG Technology Venture Investments, LP, IDG Technology Venture Investment, Inc., Vertex Technology Fund (III) Ltd., C&F International Holdings Limited, Ling Zhang and Jianping Lu, beneficially owned, collectively, approximately 59.55% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As of March 31, 2008, IDG Technology Venture Investments, LP and IDG Technology Venture Investment, Inc. together have one board representative on our five-director board, and beneficially own, collectively, approximately 24.88% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Accordingly, these shareholders have had, and may continue to have, significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. In addition, without the consent of these shareholders, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. Provisions in our charter documents and Hong Kong law, and change in control agreements we have entered into with each of our each of our executive officers, may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our constituent documents and Hong Kong law include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change in control transactions, including, among other things, the following: • Our articles of association provide for a staggered board, which means that our directors, excluding our chief executive officer, are divided into two classes, with half of our board, excluding our chief executive officer, standing for election every two years. Our chief executive officer will at all times serve as a director, and will not retire as a director, so long as he remains our chief executive officer. This means that, with our staggered board, at least two annual shareholders’ meetings, instead of one, are generally required in order to effect a change in a majority of our directors. Our staggered board can discourage proxy contests for the election of our directors and purchases of substantial blocks of our shares by making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to take control of our board in a relatively short period of time. • Hong Kong law permits shareholders of a company to remove directors by a shareholders’ resolution. Our articles of association require any shareholder who wishes to remove a director in this way to give us at least 120 days’ notice of the resolution, making it more difficult and time consuming for a potential acquirer who has 29 Table of Contents accumulated a substantial voting position to obtain control of our board by removing opposing directors. • Our articles of association provide that our board can have no less than five and no more than nine directors. Our board currently has five directors. Any increase in the maximum number of directors on our board beyond nine directors can only be accomplished by amending our articles of association, which under Hong Kong law requires a shareholders’ supermajority vote of 75% and at least 21 days’ notice. These restrictions can make it more difficult for a potential acquirer who has accumulated a majority of our shares to take control of us by promptly increasing the size of our board and appointing new directors that are its nominees. • Hong Kong does not have merger laws that permit Hong Kong companies to merge in the same way as U.S. companies could in the U.S. However, the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance has provisions that facilitate arrangements for the reconstruction and amalgamation of companies. The arrangement must be approved by a majority in number of each class of shareholders and creditors with whom the arrangement is to be made, representing three-fourths in value of each such class of shareholders or creditors that are present and voting either in person or by proxy at meetings convened by the High Court of Hong Kong. The arrangements must be sanctioned by the High Court of Hong Kong after shareholders or creditors approve it at the court-convened meeting. • Our shareholders have authorized our board of directors, without any further action by shareholders, to issue additional shares. Under Hong Kong law, the authority granted by our shareholders will remain valid until the conclusion of our next annual general meeting, or the time when our next annual general meeting is required to be held. For as long as this approval remains effective, or is renewed, our board of directors will have the power to issue additional ordinary shares (including ordinary shares represented by ADSs) and preference shares without any further action by shareholders. We are a Hong Kong company and because the legal and procedural protections afforded minority shareholders under Hong Kong law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have difficulty protecting your interests as our shareholder relative to shareholders of corporations organized in the U.S. We are a Hong Kong company and are subject to the laws of Hong Kong. The fiduciary responsibilities of our directors, and the ability of minority shareholders to take successful legal action in Hong Kong against us or our directors, are governed by the laws and court procedures of Hong Kong. Shareholders of a Hong Kong company would not be able to bring class action lawsuits against that company or its directors in a Hong Kong court in the same way that shareholders of a U.S. corporation might be able to bring such lawsuits in a U.S. court. In addition, professional conduct rules applicable to Hong Kong lawyers generally prohibit Hong Kong lawyers from accepting contingency fee arrangements, where a lawyer representing the plaintiffs is paid a fee only if the lawsuit is successful. Without contingency fee arrangements or the ability to bring class action lawsuits, our shareholders may find it more costly and difficult to take legal action against us or our directors in the Hong Kong courts. The Hong Kong courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; or • to allow original actions brought in Hong Kong, based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. 30 Table of Contents In addition, there is no automatic statutory recognition in Hong Kong of judgments obtained in the United States. Moreover, Hong Kong companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result of all of the above, minority public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, directors or controlling shareholders than they would as minority public shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Moreover, substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States and all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. The voting rights of holders of ADSs must be exercised in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement, the American depositary receipts, and the procedures established by the depositary. The process of voting through the depositary may involve delays that limit the time available to you to consider proposed shareholders’ actions and also may restrict your ability to subsequently revise your voting instructions. A holder of ADSs may exercise its voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement and the American depositary shares. We do not recognize holders of ADSs representing our ordinary shares as our shareholders, and instead we recognize the ADS depositary as our shareholder. When the depositary receives from us notice of any shareholders meeting, it will distribute the information in the meeting notice and any proxy solicitation materials to you. The depositary will determine the record date for distributing these materials, and only ADS holders registered with the depositary on that record data will, subject to applicable laws, be entitled to instruct the depositary to vote the underlying ordinary shares. The depositary will also determine and inform you of the manner for you to give your voting instructions, including instructions to give discretionary proxies to a person designated by us. Upon receipt of voting instructions of a holder of ADSs, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Although Hong Kong law requires us to call annual shareholders’ meetings by not less than 21 days’ notice in writing, and all other shareholders’ meeting by not less than 14 days’ notice in writing, these minimum notice requirements can be shortened or completely waived by the consent of all holders of our ordinary shares entitled to attend and vote (in the case of annual shareholders’ meetings) or a majority in number of the holders of our ordinary shares representing at least 95% in nominal value of the shares giving the right to attend and vote (in the case of all other shareholders’ meetings). If the minimum notice periods are shortened or waived, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting for you to withdraw your ordinary shares and cast your vote with respect to any proposed resolution, as a holder of our ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send materials relating to the meeting and voting instruction forms to you, or to carry out your voting instructions, in a timely manner. We cannot assure you that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. The additional time required for the depositary to receive from us and distribute to you meeting notices and materials, and for you to give voting instructions to the depositary with respect to the underlying ordinary shares, will result in your having less time to consider meeting notices and materials than holders of ordinary shares who receive such notices and materials directly from us and who vote their ordinary shares directly. If you have given your voting instructions to the depositary and subsequently decide to change those instructions, you may not be able to do so in time for the depositary to vote in accordance with your revised instructions. Furthermore, the depositary has deemed any holders who do not send in voting instructions at all or in time as having instructed the depository to give a discretionary voting proxy to the person(s) 31 Table of Contents designated by us to receive voting proxies, with full power to exercise such holder’s (or holders’) voting rights under the ADSs’ underlying ordinary shares in the manner as the proxy holder deems fit. Accordingly, matters that favor the incumbent board of directors and management will have a higher likelihood of passing than would otherwise be the case. The depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if such distribution is illegal or if any required government approval cannot be obtained in order to make such distribution available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions (which may include securities or rights distributions) it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if it decides that it is unlawful to make such distribution. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to holder of ADSs if it consisted of securities that required registration under the Securities Act but that were not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or unreasonable from a regulatory perspective for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs represented by American Depositary Shares are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right as a holder of ADSs to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to our ADS holders in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, the deposit agreement provides that the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be 32 Table of Contents able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. 