Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business and Investments Economic downturns and the volatility of oil and natural gas prices could impair our portfolio companies’ operations and ability to satisfy obligations to their respective lenders, including us, which could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. Our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic downturns and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic downturns could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and decreases in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in decisions by lenders not to extend credit to us. Additionally, oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil and natural gas prices could significantly affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of our portfolio companies and their ability to meet financial commitments. These events could prevent us from making additional investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on the assets securing such loans, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. This could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. High oil and natural gas prices may increase the availability of alternative sources of capital and reduce demand for our targeted investments. During periods of higher oil and natural gas prices, energy companies may have less financial need for borrowing than in a lower commodity price environment. At higher commodity price levels, borrowers may use 15 Table of Contents the additional cash flow to reduce outstanding debt under senior secured facilities, which typically makes future borrowing capacity available to such borrowers. In addition, to the extent senior lenders base borrowing capacity on reserve value calculations, higher commodity prices typically increase reserve values, thereby creating additional borrowing capacity. Because interest rates under senior secured facilities will generally be lower than the interest rates of our targeted investments, demand for our targeted investments may be reduced if energy companies have the ability to borrow additional amounts under their senior debt facilities. As a result, high commodity prices may have the effect of reducing the number of energy companies seeking financing similar to our targeted investments or causing us to achieve lower total returns on our targeted investments. Our ability to grow will depend on our ability to raise capital. Periodically, we will need to access the capital markets to raise cash to fund new investments. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. An inability to successfully access the capital markets could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy and could decrease our earnings, if any. With certain limited exceptions, we are only allowed to borrow amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such borrowing. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our investment adviser’s and our board of directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current Facilities or obtain another line of credit at all or on terms acceptable to us. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, we may in the future seek to securitize our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, we may create a wholly-owned subsidiary and contribute a pool of loans to the subsidiary. This could include the sale of interests in the subsidiary on a non-recourse basis (except for customary repurchase obligations for breach of representations and warranties) to purchasers whom we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade loan pools, and we would expect that we would retain a subordinated interest in the assets and participate (most likely on a first loss basis) in losses related to the securitized assets to the extent of that interest. However, the exact structure and provisions of any securitization will be based upon then-current market conditions and may vary from the description in this prospectus. An inability to securitize our loan portfolio successfully could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy and decrease our earnings, if any. Moreover, the successful securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses, as the residual loans in which we do not sell interests will tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make in energy companies. We compete with public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. The competitive pressures that we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we may not be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. We do not seek to compete solely based on the interest rates we offer to prospective portfolio companies. However, some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates comparable to or lower than the rates we 16 Table of Contents offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structures. If we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structures, we may experience decreased net interest income or capital gains and increased risk of credit loss, and the value of our shares or the amount of dividends paid may decline. We are a relatively new company with a limited operating history. We were incorporated in July 2004 and commenced investment operations in November 2004. We are subject to all of the business risks and uncertainties associated with any new business, including the risk that we will not achieve our investment objectives and that the value of your investment could decline substantially. Investing in privately-held companies may be riskier than investing in publicly-traded companies due to the lack of available public information. We invest primarily in privately-held companies, which may be subject to higher risk than investments in publicly-traded companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our management team to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential risks and returns involved in investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose some or all of the money we invest in these companies. These factors could subject us to greater risk than investments in publicly-traded companies and negatively affect our investment returns, which could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. Many of our portfolio investments are not publicly traded and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. A large percentage of our portfolio investments (other than our short-term cash investments) are, and will continue to be, in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these securities quarterly at fair value in accordance with procedures as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. However, we may be required on a more frequent basis to value our securities to reflect significant events affecting the value of our securities. The types of factors that may be considered in fair value pricing of an investment include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and ability to make payments, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate during short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. As a result, we may not be able to dispose of our holdings at a price equal to or grater than our determined fair value. Our net asset value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. In addition, the subjective nature of such valuations may cause the shares of our common stock to trade at a discount to our net asset value. Our equity investments may lose all or part of their value, causing us to lose all or part of our investment in those companies. The equity interests in which we invest may not appreciate or may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. As a result, our equity interests may decline in value, causing us to lose all or part of our equity investment in those companies, and may negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. 17 Table of Contents Our Manager and our management team have limited experience managing a business development company and we cannot assure you that their past experience will be sufficient to manage our company as a business development company. The 1940 Act imposes numerous complex constraints on the operations of business development companies. In order to maintain our status as a business development company, the 1940 Act prohibits us from acquiring any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, after giving effect to the acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. We refer to this requirement as the 70% Test. Qualifying assets include securities of privately-owned or thinly-traded public U.S. companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and high quality debt instruments that mature in one year or less. The failure to comply with these provisions in a timely manner could prevent us from qualifying as a business development company or could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties, which could be material. The lack of experience of our management team in managing a portfolio of assets under such regulatory constraints may hinder their ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objectives. A failure on our part to maintain our status as a business development company would significantly reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not continue to qualify as a business development company, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC. To qualify as a RIC under the Code, we must meet certain income source, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our “investment company taxable income” (which generally consists of ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any) and net tax-exempt interest to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act as a business development company, and financial covenants under our existing loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. We periodically borrow funds if necessary to make qualifying investments to satisfy such diversification requirements. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason at any time in the future and we remain or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. In addition, our stockholders would be subject to income tax on distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on our stockholders and us. The energy industry is subject to many risks. We concentrate our investments in the energy industry. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of energy companies can fluctuate suddenly and dramatically due to any one or more of the following factors: Commodity Pricing Risk. Energy companies in general are directly affected by energy commodity prices, such as the market prices of crude oil, natural gas, coal and wholesale electricity, especially for those who own the underlying energy commodity. In addition, the volatility of commodity prices can affect other energy companies due to the impact of prices on the volume of commodities produced, transported, processed, stored or distributed and on the cost of fuel for power generation companies. The volatility of commodity prices can also 18 Table of Contents affect energy companies’ ability to access the capital markets in light of market perception that their performance may be directly tied to commodity prices. Historically, energy commodity prices have been cyclical and exhibited significant volatility. Some of our portfolio companies may not engage in hedging transactions to minimize their exposure to commodity price risk. Those companies that engage in such hedging transactions remain subject to market risks, including market liquidity and counterparty creditworthiness. Regulatory Risk. The profitability of energy companies could be adversely affected by changes in the regulatory environment. The businesses of energy companies are heavily regulated by federal, state and local governments in diverse matters, such as the way in which energy assets are constructed, maintained and operated and the prices energy companies may charge for their products and services. Such regulation can change over time in scope and intensity. For example, a particular by-product of an energy process may be declared hazardous by a regulatory agency, which can unexpectedly increase production costs. Moreover, many state and federal environmental laws provide for civil penalties as well as regulatory remediation, thus adding to the potential liability an energy company may face. Production Risk. The profitability of energy companies may be materially impacted by the volume of crude oil, natural gas or other energy commodities available for producing, transporting, processing, storing, distributing or generating power. A significant decrease in the production of natural gas, crude oil, coal or other energy commodities, due to the decline of production from existing facilities, import supply disruption, depressed commodity prices, political events, OPEC actions or otherwise, could reduce revenue and operating income or increase operating costs of energy companies and, therefore, their ability to pay debt or dividends. Demand Risk. A sustained decline in demand for crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity could materially affect revenues and cash flows of energy companies. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include a recession or other adverse economic conditions, increases in the market price of the underlying commodity, higher taxes or other regulatory actions that increase costs, or shifts in consumer demand for such products. Depletion and Exploration Risk. A portion of an energy company’s assets may consist of natural gas, crude oil and/or coal reserves and other commodities that naturally deplete over time. Depletion could have a material adverse impact on such company’s ability to maintain its revenue. Further, estimates of energy reserves may not be accurate and, even if accurate, reserves may not be produced profitably. In addition, exploration of energy resources, especially of oil and natural gas, is inherently risky and requires large amounts of capital. Weather Risk. Unseasonable extreme weather patterns could result in significant volatility in demand for energy and power or may directly affect the operations of individual companies. This weather-related risk may create fluctuations in earnings of energy companies. Operational Risk. Energy companies are subject to various operational risks, such as failed drilling or well development, unscheduled outages, underestimated cost projections, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, failure to obtain the necessary permits to operate and failure of third-party contractors, such as energy producers and shippers, to perform their contractual obligations. In addition, energy companies employ a variety of means of increasing cash flow, including increasing utilization of existing facilities, expanding operations through new construction, expanding operations through acquisitions, or securing additional long-term contracts. Thus, some energy companies may be subject to construction risk, acquisition risk or other risks arising from their specific business strategies. Competition Risk. The energy companies in which we may invest will face substantial competition in acquiring properties, enhancing and developing their assets, marketing their commodities, securing trained personnel and operating their properties. Many of their competitors, including major oil companies, natural gas utilities, independent power producers and other private independent energy companies, may have financial and other resources that substantially exceed their resources. The businesses in which we may invest face greater 19 Table of Contents competition in the production, marketing and selling of power and energy products brought about in part from the deregulation of the energy markets. Valuation Risk. The targeted investments made by us are based upon valuations of our portfolio companies’ assets that are subject to uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves of oil, natural gas and coal and in projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures, which are dependent upon many factors beyond our control. The estimates rely on various assumptions, including, for example, commodity prices, operating expenses, capital expenditures and the availability of funds, and are therefore inherently imprecise indications of future net cash flows. Actual future production, cash flows, taxes, operating expenses, development expenditures and quantities of recoverable reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the value of our investments. Financing Risk. Some of the portfolio companies in which we invest may rely on capital markets to raise money to pay their existing obligations. Their ability to access the capital markets on attractive terms or at all may be affected by any of the risk factors associated with energy companies described above, by general economic and market conditions or by other factors. This may in turn affect their ability to satisfy their obligations with us. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, we generally will not be in a position to control the entity, and management of the portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. We generally make debt and minority equity investments, and are therefore subject to the risks that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree. Further, the stockholders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity in the markets for our investments in privately-held companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our portfolio companies as readily as we would like. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these investments will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or otherwise are less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including changes in the fair values of our portfolio investments, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in, and the timing of, the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. Because of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. 20 Table of Contents We may choose to invest a portion of our portfolio in investments that may be considered highly speculative, which could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause a loss of part of your investment. Our investments are generally in the form of debt instruments, including senior and subordinated loans, combined in one facility, sometimes with an equity component, and subordinated loans, sometimes with equity components. We may also invest in preferred stock and other equity securities. These investments will likely be made in energy companies that possess assets that do not produce sufficient current cash flow at inception of our investment to amortize the principal throughout the life of a loan. For example, such an investment could be made in a company that owns proved non-producing oil and natural gas reserves and requires capital to finance development drilling to initiate the production of the reserves and generate cash flow. Some of these investments may be of a highly speculative nature and may lose some or all of their value, which could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of part of your investment. We currently use borrowed funds to make investments and are exposed to the typical risks associated with leverage. We are exposed to increased risk of loss due to our use of debt to make investments. A decrease in the value of our investments will have a greater negative impact on the value of our common stock than if we did not use debt. Our ability to pay dividends will be restricted if our asset coverage ratio falls below at least 200% and any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness are not available for dividends to our common stockholders. Our current and future debt securities are and may be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. We, and indirectly our stockholders, bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. We fund a portion of our investments with borrowed money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our securities. Our lenders have fixed dollar claims on our consolidated assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders or any preferred stockholders. If the value of our consolidated assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our consolidated assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our consolidated income in excess of consolidated interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our consolidated income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make common stock dividend payments. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. We may be exposed to risks associated with changes in interest rates. General interest rate fluctuations may have a negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on investment objectives and our rate of return on invested capital. Because we may borrow money to make investments, our net investment income is dependent upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest these funds. As a result, there can be no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. Trading prices for debt that pays a fixed rate of return tend to fall as interest rates rise. Trading prices tend to fluctuate more for fixed-rate securities that have longer maturities. Although we have no policy governing the maturities of our investments, under current market 21 Table of Contents conditions we expect that we will invest in a portfolio of debt generally having maturities of three to seven years, but may have longer maturities. This means that, to the extent we fund longer term fixed rate investments with shorter term floating rate borrowings, we will be subject to greater risk (other things being equal) than a fund invested solely in shorter term securities. A decline in the prices of the debt we own could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. We may not have sufficient funds to make follow-on investments. Our decision not to make a follow-on investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment or may result in a missed opportunity for us. After our initial investment in a portfolio company, we may be called upon from time to time to provide additional funds to such company or have the opportunity to increase our investment in a successful situation, for example, the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that we will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Any decision we make not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation and may dilute our equity interest or otherwise reduce the expected yield on our investment. If we issue senior securities, such as debt or preferred stock, we will be exposed to additional risks. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock, and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as senior securities, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. We may issue senior securities to make new or follow-on investments, to maintain our RIC status or to pay contingencies and expenses. We will be permitted under the 1940 Act to issue senior securities if, immediately after the borrowing or issuance, we will have an asset coverage of at least 200%. That is, we may borrow funds in an amount up to 50% of the value of our assets (including investments made with borrowed funds). The amount and nature of any borrowings will depend on a number of factors over which we have no control, including general economic conditions and conditions in the financial markets. We may also need to borrow funds to make qualifying investments to maintain our RIC status. Therefore, we may need to raise additional capital, which we may elect to finance in part through a credit facility. We may not be able to obtain a credit facility on terms that we find acceptable, if at all. The unavailability of funds from commercial banks or other sources on favorable terms could inhibit the growth of our business and have a material adverse effect on our performance. Our Board of Directors may change most of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive most of our current operating policies and our strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively affect our ability to pay you dividends and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. In the event that our Board of Directors determines that we cannot economically pursue our investment objective under the 1940 Act, they may at some future date decide to withdraw our election to be treated as a business development company and convert us to a management investment company or an operating company not subject to regulation under the 1940 Act, or cause us to liquidate. These changes may not be effected without approval of a requisite percentage of our Board of Directors and the holders of a majority of our shares. 22 Table of Contents We may choose to waive or defer enforcement of covenants in the debt securities held in our portfolio, which may cause us to lose all or part of our investment in these companies. We generally structure the debt investments in our portfolio companies to include customary business and financial covenants placing affirmative and negative obligations on the operation of each company’s business and its financial condition. However, from time to time we may elect to waive breaches of these covenants, including our right to payment, or waive or defer enforcement of remedies, such as acceleration of obligations or foreclosure on collateral, depending upon the financial condition and prospects of the particular portfolio company. These actions may reduce the likelihood of us receiving the full amount of future payments of interest or principal and be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of the underlying collateral as many of these companies may have limited financial resources, may be unable to meet future obligations and may go bankrupt. This could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. Our portfolio investments may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies, which would magnify the effect if one of those companies were to suffer a significant loss. This could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. We are classified as a closed-end, non-diversified management investment company under the 1940 Act, which means we are not limited by the 1940 Act in the proportion of our assets that may be invested in the securities of a single issuer. A consequence of this concentration is that the aggregate returns we initially realize may be adversely affected if a small number of our investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one such investment. Beyond the applicable federal income tax diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. Financial difficulty on the part of any single portfolio company will expose us to a greater risk of loss than would be the case if we were a “diversified” company holding numerous investments. To the extent that we take large positions in the securities of a small number of portfolio companies, our net asset value and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of changes in the financial condition or in the market’s assessment of such portfolio companies to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company. These factors could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. In addition, our investments are concentrated in the energy industry. Consequently, we are exposed to the risks of adverse developments affecting the energy industry to a greater extent than if our investments were dispersed over a variety of industries. See “The energy industry is subject to many risks.” Our portfolio companies may incur debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, our investments in such companies. As a result, the holders of such debt may be entitled to payments of principal or interest prior to us, preventing us from obtaining the full value of our investment in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. A substantial amount of our assets is invested in subordinated debt securities and mezzanine investments issued by our portfolio companies. The portfolio companies usually will have, or may be permitted to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may provide that the holders are entitled to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such securities in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. As a result, we may be prevented from obtaining the full value of our investment in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. 23 Table of Contents Failure to deploy new capital may reduce our return on equity. If we fail to invest any new capital effectively our return on equity may be negatively impacted, which could reduce the price of the shares of our common stock. We may invest a portion of our assets in foreign securities. Investing in foreign securities typically involves more risks than investing in U.S. securities. These risks can increase the potential for losses by us and negatively affect our stock price. Foreign securities may be issued and traded in foreign currencies. As a result, their values may be affected by changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar. For example, if the value of the U.S. dollar goes up compared to a foreign currency, a loan payable in that foreign currency will go down in value because it will be worth fewer U.S. dollars. The political, economic, and social structure of some foreign countries may be less stable and more volatile than those in the U.S. Investments in these countries may be subject to the risks of internal and external conflicts, currency devaluations, foreign ownership limitations and tax increases. It is possible that a government may take over assets or operations of a company or impose restrictions on the exchange or export of currency or other assets. Some countries also may have different legal systems that may make it difficult for us to vote proxies, exercise stockholder rights, and pursue legal remedies with respect to foreign investments. Diplomatic and political developments, including rapid and adverse political changes, social instability, regional conflicts, terrorism and war, could affect the economies, industries and securities and currency markets, and the value of our investments, in non-U.S. countries. These factors are extremely difficult, if not impossible, to predict and to take into account with respect to our investments in foreign securities. Brokerage commissions and other fees generally are higher for foreign securities. Government supervision and regulation of foreign stock exchanges, currency markets, trading systems and brokers may be less than in the U.S. The procedures and rules governing foreign transactions and custody (holding of our assets) may involve delays in payment, delivery or recovery of money or investments. Foreign companies may not be subject to the same disclosure, accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards and practices as U.S. companies. Thus, there may be less information publicly available about foreign companies than about most U.S. companies. Certain foreign securities may be less liquid (harder to sell) and more volatile than many U.S. securities. This means we may at times be unable to sell foreign securities at favorable prices. Dividend and interest income from foreign securities may be subject to withholding taxes by the country in which the issuer is located, and we may not be able to pass through to our stockholders foreign tax credits or deductions with respect to these taxes. Risks Related to Our Manager Our manager and our management team have limited experience managing a BDC and a RIC, and we cannot assure you that their past experience will be sufficient to manage our company as a BDC and a RIC. The 1940 Act imposes numerous complex constraints on the operations of BDCs. In order to maintain our status as a BDC, the 1940 Act prohibits us from acquiring any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, after giving effect to the acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. We refer to this requirement as the 70% Test. Qualifying assets include securities of private U.S. companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and high quality debt instruments that mature in one year or less. The failure to comply with these provisions in a timely manner could prevent us from qualifying as a BDC or could force us to pay 24 Table of Contents unexpected taxes and penalties, which could be material. Additionally, the RIC rules imposed by the Code require us to meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The limited experience of our management team in managing a portfolio of assets under such regulatory constraints may hinder its ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objectives. Our management team may provide services to other investors, which could reduce the amount of time and effort that they devote to us, which could negatively affect our performance. Our investment advisory agreement does not restrict the right of our Manager, NGP, or any persons working on our behalf, to carry on their respective businesses, including providing advice to others with respect to the purchase of securities that would meet our investment objectives. Although the officers of our Manager devote full time to the management of our business, our investment advisory agreement does not specify a minimum time period that representatives of NGP who are serving as directors or members of our Manager’s investment committee must devote to managing our investments. Each of Messrs. Hersh and Albin (who serve as members of our Board of Directors), and Messrs. Quinn and Covington (who serve as members of our Manager’s investment committee) continue to have substantial responsibilities in connection with their roles managing other NGP-affiliated funds. Our Manager and its management team may also be called upon to provide managerial assistance to our portfolio companies. The ability of these parties to engage in these other business activities, including managing assets for third parties, could reduce the time and effort they spend managing our portfolio, which could negatively affect our performance. Our future success is dependent upon the members of our management team and their access to investment professionals of our Manager’s affiliates and the loss of any of them could detrimentally affect our operations. We depend on the diligence, experience, skill and network of business contacts of our management team. We also depend, to a significant extent, on our Manager’s investment professionals and the information and deal flow generated by them in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. Our management team evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes and monitors our investments. Our future success will depend on the continued service of our management team. The departure of any of the senior members of our management team, or of a significant number of the investment professionals of our Manager, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. We have not entered into employment agreements, nor do we have an employment relationship, with any of these individuals. There is competition for qualified professionals in our Manager’s industry. If our Manager is unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully implement our investment strategy and the value of your investment could decline. In addition, we can offer no assurance that our Manager will remain our Manager or that we will continue to have access to the investment professionals of our Manager or their information and deal flow. The loss of any member of our management team could detrimentally affect our operations. Our obligation to reimburse our Manager for certain expenses could result in a conflict of interest. In the course of our investing activities, we pay management and incentive fees to our Manager. Also, we reimburse our Manager and our Administrator for certain expenses they incur, such as those payable to third parties in monitoring our financial and legal affairs and investments and performing due diligence on our prospective investments. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis and receive distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in, among other things, a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. Due to this arrangement, there may be times when our Manager has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict that could negatively affect our investment returns and the value of your investment. 25 Table of Contents We pay our Manager a base management fee based upon our total assets, which may lead our Manager to cause us to incur more debt than is prudent in order to maximize its compensation. We will pay our Manager a quarterly base management fee based on the value of our total assets (including assets acquired with borrowed funds). Accordingly, our Manager has an enhanced economic incentive to increase our leverage. If our leverage is increased, we will be exposed to increased risk of loss, bear the increased cost of issuing and servicing such senior indebtedness, and will be subject to any additional covenant restrictions imposed in an indenture or by the applicable lender, which could negatively affect our business and results of operation. We pay our Manager incentive compensation based on our portfolio’s performance. This arrangement may lead our Manager to recommend riskier or more speculative investments in an effort to maximize its incentive compensation. In addition to its base management fee, our Manager earns incentive compensation in two parts. The first part is payable quarterly and is equal to a specified percentage of the amount by which our net investment income exceeds a hurdle rate. The second part of the incentive fee is determined and payable in arrears as of the end of each calendar year and equals (1) 20% of (a) our net realized capital gain (realized capital gains less realized capital losses) on a cumulative basis from the closing date of our initial public offering to the end of such fiscal year, less (b) any unrealized capital depreciation at the end of such fiscal year, less (2) the aggregate amount of all capital gains fees paid to our Manager in prior years. The way in which the incentive fee payable to our Manager is determined may encourage our Manager to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would adversely affect our stockholders because their interests would be subordinate to those of debtholders. In addition, our Manager receives the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike the portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, our Manager may have a tendency to invest more in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income-producing securities. Other key criteria related to determining appropriate investments and investment strategies, including the preservation of capital, might be under-weighted if our Manager focuses exclusively or disproportionately on maximizing its income. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses. The payment of part of the incentive compensation on a quarterly basis may lead our Manager to accelerate or defer interest payable by our portfolio companies in a manner that could result in fluctuations in the timing and amount of dividends. Our Manager receives a quarterly incentive fee based, in part, on our net investment income, if any, for the immediately preceding fiscal quarter. To the extent our Manager exerts influence over our portfolio companies, the quarterly incentive fee may provide our Manager with an incentive to induce our portfolio companies to accelerate or defer payments for interest or other obligations owed to us from one fiscal quarter to another. This could result in greater fluctuations in the timing and amount of dividends that we pay. We may be obligated to pay our Manager incentive compensation even if we incur a loss. Pursuant to the investment advisory agreement, our Manager is entitled to receive incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our net investment income for that quarter above a hurdle rate. In addition, the investment advisory agreement further provides that our net investment income for incentive compensation purposes excludes unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. The calculation of the incentive fee includes any deferred interest accrued, but not yet received. As a result, we 26 Table of Contents may be paying an incentive fee on interest, the collection of which may be uncertain or deferred. Thus, we may be required to pay our Manager incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. While our management team currently does not provide advisory services to other investment vehicles that may have common investment objectives with ours, our management team may do so in the future and may face conflicts of interest in allocating investments. Our management team does not currently provide advisory services to other investment vehicles with common investment objectives to ours. However, they are not prohibited from doing so. In addition, the NGP-affiliated funds are not precluded from making investments in securities like our targeted investments, although they have not traditionally focused on such types of investments in the past. If our management team does provide such services to other investment vehicles in the future, or if the focus of the NGP-affiliated funds were to change to include securities like our targeted investments, our management team might allocate investment opportunities to other entities, and thus might divert attractive investment opportunities away from us. In addition, our executive officers and directors, and the members of our management team, serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. These multiple responsibilities might create conflicts of interest for our management team and NGP if they are presented with opportunities that might benefit us and their other clients, investors or stockholders. Our Manager’s liability is limited under the investment advisory agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilities, which may lead our Manager to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Our Manager has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to provide the services described in the investment advisory agreement, and it is not responsible for any action of our Board of Directors in declining to follow our Manager’s advice or recommendations. Pursuant to the investment advisory agreement, our Manager, its partners and, among others, their respective partners, officers and employees are not liable to us for their acts under the investment advisory agreement, absent willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties. We have agreed to indemnify, defend and protect our Manager and its managing members, officers and employees with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts of our Manager not constituting willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties. These protections may lead our Manager to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. We are a different vehicle from any other NGP-affiliated fund. Our investment strategies differ from those of other funds (including any NGP-affiliated fund) that are, or have been, managed by NGP or its affiliates. Investors in NGP Capital Resources Company do not own any interest in NGP or in any other NGP-affiliated fund. The historical performance of NGP is not indicative of the results that our company will achieve, and you should not rely upon such historical performance in purchasing our common stock. The rate of return we target on investments is lower than that of NGP’s private equity funds, and as a result, our expected rate of return is lower than returns sought by NGP’s private equity funds. We can provide no assurance that we will replicate the historical or future performance of NGP or its affiliated funds, and we caution you that our investment returns may be substantially lower than the returns achieved by those funds. Legal and Tax Risks A failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would significantly reduce our operating flexibility. If we do not continue to qualify as a business development company, we might be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility. 27 Table of Contents We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC. To qualify as a RIC under the Code, we must meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our “investment company taxable income” (which generally consists of ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses) and net tax-exempt interest to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act as a BDC, and financial covenants under our existing loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason at any time in the future and we remain or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. In addition, our distributions would be taxable to our stockholders as ordinary dividends. Such a failure would likely have a material adverse effect on our stockholders and us. For example, we failed to qualify as a RIC for our first taxable year ending on December 31, 2004. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before, or without, receiving cash representing such income. If we are unable to pay required distributions, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. For federal income tax purposes, we are required to include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discount, which arises, for example, when we receive warrants, property-based equity participation rights or loan discount points in connection with the purchase of a loan or payment-in-kind interest, which represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. Such original issue discount or increases in loan balances as a result of payment-in-kind arrangements, which could be significant relative to our company’s overall investment activities, are included in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts that we do not receive in cash. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the tax requirement to distribute at least 90% of the sum of our “investment company taxable income” (which generally consists of ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses) and net tax-exempt interest, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis, to maintain our status as a RIC. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital, borrow funds or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. We have elected to be treated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous restrictions on our activities, including restrictions on the nature of our investments, our use of borrowed funds, our issuance of securities, options, warrants, or rights. Such restrictions may prohibit the purchase of certain investments that would otherwise be suitable for investment or render such purchases inadvisable. 28 Table of Contents Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, as a BDC, we are permitted to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous and result in unfavorable prices. We generally cannot issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. However, we may sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at prices below the current net asset value of the common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of our company and its stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). Because there are no judicial and few administrative interpretations of the provisions of the 1940 Act pertaining to business development companies, there is no assurance that such provisions will be interpreted or administratively implemented in a manner consistent with our investment objectives and intended manner of operation. In the event that our Board of Directors determines that we cannot economically pursue our investment objective under the 1940 Act, they may at some future date decide to withdraw our election to be regulated as a BDC and convert us to a management investment company or an operating company not subject to regulation under the 1940 Act, or cause us to liquidate. These changes may not be effected without approval of a requisite percentage of our Board of Directors and the holders of a majority of our shares. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations and those of our portfolio companies, our Manager or its affiliates may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy. We, our portfolio companies, and our Manager and its affiliates are subject to regulation by laws and regulations at the local, state and federal level. New legislation may be enacted into law or new interpretations, rulings or regulations could be adopted, including those governing the types of investments we are permitted to make, any of which could harm us, our Manager and our stockholders, with retroactive effect. Such changes could result in material changes to our strategies and plans and may result in our investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of our Manager to other types of investments in which our Manager may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. Our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates is restricted. We are prohibited under the 1940 Act from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in certain cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities is our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and we are generally prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors and, in certain cases, the SEC. The 1940 Act also prohibits “joint” transactions with an affiliate, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors and, in certain cases, the SEC. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we are prohibited from buying or selling any security from or to such person, or entering into joint transactions with such person, absent the prior approval of the SEC. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 29 Table of Contents 