ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We have a limited number of clients and provide services to few industries. In 2011, approximately 31.8% of our total revenues came from three clients. We have derived and believe that we will continue to derive a substantial portion of our total revenues from a limited number of large clients. In 2011, our three largest clients Travelers, Centrica and American Express, accounted for approximately 31.8% of our total revenues. We generated 11.6% of our total revenues in 2011 from Travelers, 10.8% of our total revenues in 2011 from Centrica and 9.4% of our total revenues in 2011 from American Express. We provide services to Travelers under a services agreement and work assignments and orders generated thereunder. Although the services agreement does not have a fixed term, the work assignments and work orders expire in December 2013 and renew every year thereafter unless either party elects not to renew within a specified period before the next renewal date. Travelers may terminate the services agreement, or any work assignment or work order, without cause upon 60 days prior notice. We provide services to Centrica under an agreement that expires in April 2015. Centrica will have the option to extend the contract for two annual extension periods. This contract can be terminated by Centrica without cause upon three months prior notice and payment of a breakup fee. We provide services to American Express under a separate agreement for each of our BPO services and our transformation services. The agreement for transformation services can be terminated by American Express without cause upon five days prior written notice. We expect that a significant portion of our total revenues will continue to be contributed by a limited number of large clients in the near future. The loss or financial difficulties of either of our large clients would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. General economic and business conditions could negatively affect our business in multiple ways. The recent global economic downturn adversely impacted companies in the industries to which we provide services, including the banking, financial services and insurance industries. In 2011, approximately 55.1% of our total revenues were derived from clients in those industries, including 48.5% of our total revenues that were derived from clients in the insurance industry. Our business largely depends on continued demand for our services from clients and potential clients in these industries. Adverse developments in these industries or the other select industries to which we provide services could further unfavorably affect our business. In particular, we currently derive, and are likely to continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from clients located in the U.S. Any future decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending, could result in a decrease in demand for our services, particularly our transformation services, thus reducing our revenue. Continued high unemployment rates in the U.S. could also adversely affect the demand for our services. Other developments in response to economic events, such as consolidations, restructurings or reorganizations, particularly involving our clients, could also cause the demand for our services to decline. Any future disruptions in the commercial credit markets may impact liquidity in the global credit market as greatly, or even more, than in recent years, and we may not be able to predict the impact such worsening conditions will have on our targeted industries in general, and our results of operations specifically. Future turbulence in global markets and economies may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our clients, and they may limit our ability to access financing or increase our cost of financing to meet liquidity needs, and affect the ability of our customers to use credit to purchase our services or to make timely payments to us, resulting in adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. Our industry may not develop in ways that we currently anticipate due to negative public reaction in the U.S. and elsewhere to offshore outsourcing, recently proposed legislation or otherwise. We have based our strategy of future growth on certain assumptions regarding our industry and future developments in the market for outsourcing services. For example, we believe that there will continue to be 16 Table of Contents changes in product and service requirements, and investments in the products offered by our clients will continue to increase. However, the trend to outsource business processes may not continue and could reverse. Offshore outsourcing is a politically sensitive topic in the U.S. and elsewhere, and many organizations and public figures have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in the U.S. and elsewhere. In addition, there has been limited publicity about the negative experience of certain companies that use offshore outsourcing, particularly in India. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services to offshore providers to avoid any negative perception that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends would harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that operate out of facilities located in the U.S. and elsewhere. A variety of U.S. federal and state legislation has been proposed that, if enacted, could restrict or discourage U.S. companies from outsourcing their services to companies outside the U.S. For example, legislation has been proposed that would require offshore providers to identify where they are located and that would require notice to individuals whose personal information is disclosed to non-U.S. companies. In addition, recently introduced bills have proposed providing tax and other economic incentives for companies that create employment in the U.S. by reducing their offshore outsourcing. Other bills have proposed requiring call centers to disclose their geographic locations, requiring notice to individuals whose personal information is disclosed to non-U.S. affiliates or subcontractors, requiring disclosures of companies’ foreign outsourcing practices or restricting U.S. private sector companies that have federal government contracts, federal grants or guaranteed loan programs from outsourcing their services to offshore service providers. Because most of our clients are located in the U.S., any expansion of existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing could adversely impact our ability to do business with U.S. clients and have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In other countries, such as the U.K., which comprised 22.0% of our total revenues in 2011, there has also been some negative publicity and concern expressed regarding the possible effect of job losses caused by outsourcing. Legislation enacted in the U.K. provides that if a company transfers or outsources its business or a part of its business to a transferee or a service provider, the employees who were employed in such business are entitled to become employed by the transferee or service provider on the same terms and conditions as they had been employed before the transfer. The dismissal of such employees as a result of such transfer of business is deemed unfair dismissal and entitles the employees to compensation. As a result, we may become liable for redundancy payments to the employees of our clients in the U.K. who outsource business to us. We are generally indemnified in our existing contracts with clients in the U.K. to the extent we incur losses or additional costs due to the application of this legislation to us, and we intend to obtain indemnification in future contracts with clients. However, if we are unable to obtain indemnification in future contracts with clients, we may be liable under any agreements we enter into in the future with U.K. clients. Similar legislation has also been enacted in certain other European jurisdictions. Our client contracts contain certain termination and other provisions that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Most of our client contracts may be terminated by our clients without cause and do not commit our clients to provide us with a specific volume of business. Any failure to meet a client’s expectations could result in a cancellation or non-renewal of a contract or a decrease in business provided to us. We may not be able to replace any client that elects to terminate or not renew its contract with us, which would reduce our revenues. For example, we provide services to Travelers under a services agreement that Travelers may terminate without cause upon 60 days prior notice, we provide services to Centrica under an agreement that can be terminated by Centrica without cause upon three months prior notice and payment of a breakup fee and we provide transformation services to American Express under an agreement that can be terminated by American Express without cause upon five days prior written notice. We generated 11.6% of our total revenues in 2011 from Travelers, 10.8% of our total revenues in 2011 from Centrica and 9.4% of our total revenues in 2011 from American Express. The termination of any of these contracts with or without cause could have a material adverse impact on the predictability of our expected revenue stream. 17 Table of Contents A limited number of our contracts allow a client, in certain limited circumstances, to request a benchmark study comparing our pricing and performance with that of an agreed list of other service providers for comparable services. Based on the results of the study and depending on the reasons for any unfavorable variance, we may be required to make improvements in the services we provide or reduce the pricing for services on a prospective basis to be performed under the remaining term of the contract or our client could elect to terminate the contract, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our contracts contain provisions that would require us to pay penalties to our clients and/or provide our clients with the right to terminate the contract if we do not meet pre-agreed service level requirements or if we do not provide certain productivity benefits. Failure to meet these requirements or accurately estimate the productivity benefits could result in the payment of significant penalties by us to our clients which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our contracts with clients specify that if a change of control of our company occurs during the term of the contract, the client has the right to terminate the contract. These provisions may result in our contracts being terminated if there is such a change in control, resulting in a potential loss of revenues. In addition, these provisions may act as a deterrent to any attempt by a third party to acquire our company. We may fail to attract and retain enough sufficiently trained employees to support our operations, as competition for highly skilled personnel is intense and we experience significant employee turnover rates. The BPO industry is very labor intensive and our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified employees, including our ability to attract employees with needed skills in the geographic areas in which we operate. The industry, including us, experiences high employee turnover. In 2011, our turnover rate for billable employees was approximately 31.2%. There is significant competition for professionals with skills necessary to perform the services we offer to our clients. Increased competition for these professionals, in the BPO industry or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on us. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our employees, particularly among the highly skilled workforce needed to provide BPO services, would increase our recruiting and training costs and decrease our operating efficiency, productivity and profit margins, and could lead to a decline in demand for our services. High turnover rates generally do not impact our revenues as we factor the attrition rate into our pricing models by maintaining additional employees for each process. However, high turnover rates do increase our cost of revenues and therefore impact our profit margins due to higher recruitment, training and retention costs as a result of maintaining larger hiring, training and human resources departments and higher operating costs due to having to reallocate certain business processes among our operations centers where we have access to the skilled workforce needed for the business. In 2011, we incurred approximately $3.1 million on recruitment and approximately $1.3 million on training costs due to employee turnover, thereby increasing our costs and reducing our profit margins for that period by $4.4 million. In addition, our ability to maintain and renew existing engagements and obtain new business will depend, in large part, on our ability to attract, train and retain personnel with skills that keep pace with the demand for outsourcing, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. A lack of sufficiently qualified personnel could also inhibit our ability to establish operations in new markets and our efforts to expand geographically. Our failure to attract, train and retain personnel with the qualifications necessary to fulfill the needs of our existing and future clients or to assimilate new employees successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have a long selling cycle for our BPO services that requires significant funds and management resources and a long implementation cycle that requires significant resource commitments. We have a long selling cycle for our BPO services, which requires significant investment of capital, resources and time by both our clients and us. Before committing to use our services, potential clients require us to expend substantial time and resources educating them as to the value of our services, including testing our services for a limited period of time, and assessing the feasibility of integrating our systems and processes with theirs. Our clients then evaluate our services before deciding whether to use them. Therefore, our selling cycle, 18 Table of Contents which generally ranges from six to eighteen months, is subject to many risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including our clients’ decision to choose alternatives to our services (such as other providers or in-house offshore resources) and the timing of our clients’ budget cycles and approval processes. In addition, we may not be able to successfully conclude a contract after the selling cycle is complete. Implementing our services involves a significant commitment of resources over an extended period of time from both our clients and us. Our clients may also experience delays in obtaining internal approvals or delays associated with technology or system implementations, thereby delaying further the implementation process. Our clients and future clients may not be willing or able to invest the time and resources necessary to implement our services, and we may fail to close sales with potential clients to which we have devoted significant time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Once we are engaged by a client, it may take us several months before we start to recognize significant revenues. When we are engaged by a client after the selling process for our BPO services, it takes from four to six weeks to integrate the client’s systems with ours, and up to three months thereafter to build up our services to the client’s requirements. Depending on the complexity of the processes being implemented, these time periods may be significantly longer. Implementing processes can be subject to potential delays similar to certain of those affecting the selling cycle. Therefore, we do not recognize significant revenues until after we have completed the implementation phase. We enter into long-term contracts with our BPO clients, and our failure to estimate the resources and time required for our contracts may negatively affect our profitability. The initial terms of our BPO client contracts typically range from three to five years. In many of our BPO contracts we commit to long-term pricing with our clients and therefore bear the risk of cost overruns, completion delays, wage inflation and adverse movements in exchange rates in connection with these contracts. If we fail to estimate accurately the resources and time required for a contract, future wage inflation rates or currency exchange rates (or fail to accurately hedge our currency exchange rate exposure) or if we fail to complete our contractual obligations within the contracted timeframe, our revenues and profitability may be negatively affected. Consistency in our revenues from period to period depends in part on our ability to reflect the changing demands and needs of our existing and potential BPO clients. If we are unable to adjust our pricing terms or the mix of products and services we provide to meet the changing demands of our BPO clients and potential BPO clients, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Most of our BPO contracts use a pricing model that provides for hourly or annual billing rates. Industry pricing models are evolving, however, and we anticipate that clients may increasingly request transaction-based or other pricing models. If we are unable to obtain operating efficiencies or if we make inaccurate assumptions for contacts with transaction-based pricing, our profitability may be negatively affected. If we are unable to adapt our operations to evolving pricing protocols, our results of operations may be adversely affected or we may not be able to offer pricing that is attractive relative to our competitors. In addition, the BPO services we provide to our clients and the revenues and income from those services may decline or vary as the type and quantity of services we provide under those contracts changes over time, including as a result of a shift in the mix of products and services we provide. Furthermore, our clients, some of which have experienced significant and adverse changes in their prospects, substantial price competition and pressures on their profitability, have in the past and may in the future demand price reductions, automate some or all of their processes or change their outsourcing strategy by moving more work in-house or to other providers, any of which could reduce our profitability. Any significant reduction in or the elimination of the use of the services we provide to any of our clients, or any requirement to lower our prices, would harm our business. 19 Table of Contents Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to appropriately price our services or manage our asset utilization levels. Our profitability is largely a function of the efficiency with which we utilize our assets, and in particular our people and our operations centers, and the pricing that we are able to obtain for our services. Our asset utilization levels are affected by a number of factors, including our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments, attract, train and retain employees, forecast demand for our services and maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our locations, as well as our need to dedicate resources to employee training and development and other typically non-chargeable activities. The prices we are able to charge for our services are affected by a number of factors, including our clients’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our services, substantial price competition, introduction of new services or products by us or our competitors, our ability to accurately estimate, attain and sustain revenues from client engagements, our ability to estimate resources for long-term pricing, margins and cash flows for long-term contracts and general economic and political conditions. Therefore, if we are unable to appropriately price our services or manage our asset utilization levels, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our transformation services are cyclical and based on specific projects involving short-term contracts. Our transformation services, such as our decision analytics, finance transformation and operations and process excellence services, are cyclical and can be significantly affected by variations in business cycles. Changes in the deadlines or the scope of work required for compliance with the requirements of legislation applicable to our clients could have a significant impact on certain service offerings of our finance transformation services business. In addition, a majority of our transformation services consist of specific projects with contract terms generally not exceeding one year and may not produce ongoing or recurring business for us once the project is completed. These contracts also usually contain provisions permitting termination of the contract after a short notice period. The short-term nature and specificity of these projects could lead to material fluctuations and uncertainties in the revenues generated from these businesses. Our operating results may experience significant variability and as a result it may be difficult for us to make accurate financial forecasts. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period. Although our existing agreements with original terms of three or more years provide us with a relatively predictable revenue base for a substantial portion of our business, the long selling cycle for our services and the budget and approval processes of prospective clients make it difficult to predict the timing of new client acquisitions. The timing of revenue recognition under new client agreements also varies depending on when we complete the implementation phase. The completion of implementation varies significantly based upon the complexity of the processes being implemented. Our period-to-period results have in the past and may also in the future fluctuate due to other factors, including client losses, delays or failure by our clients to provide anticipated business, variations in employee utilization rates resulting from changes in our clients’ operations, delays or difficulties in expanding our operations centers and infrastructure (including hiring new employees or constructing new operations centers), changes to our pricing structure or that of our competitors, currency fluctuation, seasonal changes in the operations of our clients and other events identified in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our revenues are also affected by changes in pricing under our contracts at the time of renewal or by pricing under new contracts. For example, because the majority of our revenues are denominated in U.K. pounds sterling or U.S. dollars while most of our expenses are incurred and paid in Indian rupees and the Philippine peso, our revenues can decrease or increase significantly if the exchange rates among the Indian rupee, the U.K. pound sterling, the Philippine peso and the U.S. dollar fluctuate significantly. In addition, most of our contracts do not commit our clients to provide us with a specific volume of business. These factors may make it difficult to make accurate financial forecasts or replace anticipated revenues that we do not receive as a result of delays in implementing our services or client losses. If our actual results do not meet any estimated results that we announce, or if we underperform market expectations as a result of such factors, trading prices for our common stock could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Our senior management team is critical to our continued success and the loss of one or more members of our senior management team could harm our business. Our future success substantially depends on the continued services and performance of the members of our management team and other key employees possessing technical and business capabilities, including industry expertise, that are difficult to replace. Specifically, the loss of the services of Rohit Kapoor, our President and Chief Executive Officer, could seriously impair our ability to continue to manage and expand our business. There is intense competition for experienced senior management and personnel with technical and industry expertise in the industry in which we operate, and we may not be able to retain these officers or key employees. Although we have entered into employment and non-competition agreements with all of our executive officers, certain terms of those agreements may not be enforceable and in any event these agreements do not ensure the continued service of these executive officers. Mr. Kapoor and certain of his affiliates have certain registration rights with respect to their shares of common stock. In addition, we currently do not maintain “key person” insurance covering any member of our management team. The loss of any of our key employees, particularly to competitors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our inability to effectively manage our rapid infrastructure and personnel growth could have a material adverse effect on our operations, results of operations and financial condition. Since we were founded in April 1999, we have experienced rapid growth and significantly expanded our operations. We have fifteen operations centers in India, five operations centers in the U.S., two operations centers in Bulgaria and one in each of the Philippines, Romania, the Czech Republic and Malaysia. Our headcount has increased from approximately 1,800 on December 31, 2002 to approximately 18,900 on December 31, 2011. We expect to develop and improve our internal systems in the locations where we operate in order to address the anticipated growth of our business. We inaugurated a new operations center in the Philippines in January 2012 and are in the process of expanding some of our operations centers in India. We are also continuing to look for operations centers at additional locations outside of our current operating geographies. We believe expanding our geographic base of operations will provide higher value to our clients by decreasing the risks of operating from a single country (including potential shortages of skilled employees, increases in wage costs during strong economic times and currency fluctuations), while also giving our clients access to a wider talent pool and establishing a base in countries that may be competitive in the future. However, we may not be able to effectively manage our infrastructure and employee expansion, open additional operations centers or hire additional skilled employees as and when they are required to meet the ongoing needs of our clients, and we may not be able to develop and improve our internal systems. Our inability to execute our growth strategy, to ensure the continued adequacy of our current systems or to manage our expansion effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may engage in strategic acquisitions or transactions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As part of our business strategy, we intend to continue to selectively consider acquisitions or investments, some of which may be material. Through the acquisitions we pursue, we may seek opportunities to expand the scope of our existing services we provide, add new clients or to enter new geographic markets. We have made acquisitions in the past, including our acquisitions in 2010 of the American Express Global Travel Services Center located in Gurgaon, India and PDMA, developer of the LifePRO® insurance policy administration platform, and our acquisitions in 2011 of OPI and Trumbull. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify suitable candidates in the future for strategic transactions at acceptable prices, have sufficient capital resources to finance potential acquisitions or be able to consummate any desired transactions. Our failure to close transactions with potential acquisition targets for which we have invested significant time and resources could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. Acquisitions, including completed acquisitions, involve a number of risks, including diversion of management’s attention, ability to finance the acquisition on attractive terms, failure to retain key personnel or 21 Table of Contents valuable customers, legal liabilities and the need to amortize acquired intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Future acquisitions may also result in the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance of additional equity securities. We could also experience financial or other setbacks if transactions encounter unanticipated problems, including problems related to execution, integration or underperformance relative to prior expectations. Our management may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired business into our operations or maintain our standards, controls and policies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Consequently, any acquisition we do complete may not result in long-term benefits to us. Following the completion of an acquisition, we may have to rely on the seller to provide administrative and other support, including financial reporting and internal controls, and other transition services to the acquired business for a period of time. There can be no assurance that the seller will do so in a manner that is acceptable to us. Employee wage increases may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margin. Our most significant costs are the salaries and related benefits of our operations staff and other employees. For example, wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the U.S. and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive advantages. However, because of rapid economic growth in India, increased demand for BPO services from India and increased competition for skilled employees in India, wages for comparably skilled employees in India are increasing at a faster rate than in the U.S. and Europe, which may reduce this competitive advantage. We may need to increase the levels of employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to remain competitive in attracting and retaining the quality and number of employees that our business requires. Wages are generally higher for employees performing transformation services than for employees performing BPO services. As the scale of our transformation services increases, wages as a percentage of revenues will likely increase. To the extent that we are not able to control or share wage increases with our clients, wage increases may reduce our margins. We will attempt to control such costs by our efforts to add capacity in locations where we consider wage levels of skilled personnel to be satisfactory, but we may not be successful in doing so. Additionally, because a majority of our employees are based in India and paid in Indian rupees, while our revenues are primarily in U.S. dollars and U.K. pounds sterling, our employee costs as a percentage of revenues may increase or decrease significantly if the exchange rates among the Indian rupee, the U.K. pound sterling and the U.S. dollar fluctuate significantly. If more stringent labor laws become applicable to us or if our employees unionize, our profitability may be adversely affected. India has stringent labor legislation that protects employee interests, including legislation that sets forth detailed procedures for dispute resolution and employee removal and legislation that imposes financial obligations on employers upon retrenchment. Though we are exempt from some of these labor laws at present under exceptions in some states for providers of IT-enabled services, there can be no assurance that such laws will not become applicable to us in the future. If these labor laws become applicable to our employees, it may become difficult for us to maintain flexible human resource policies and attract and employ the numbers of sufficiently qualified candidates that we need or discharge employees, and our compensation expenses may increase significantly. In addition, our employees may in the future form unions. If employees at any of our operations centers become eligible for union membership, we may be required to raise wage levels or grant other benefits that could result in an increase in our compensation expenses, in which case our profitability may be adversely affected. The Government of India has recently focused on the occupational health and safety concerns experienced by workers in the outsourcing industry. The introduction of legislation imposing restrictions on working hours or conditions of professionals in the outsourcing industry could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents We face significant competition from U.S.-based and non-U.S.-based outsourcing and information technology companies and from our clients, who may perform outsourcing services themselves, either in-house, in the U.S. or through offshore groups or other arrangements. The market for outsourcing services is highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify and increase from a number of sources. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets are breadth and depth of process expertise, knowledge of industries served, service quality, the ability to attract, train and retain qualified people, compliance rigor, global delivery capabilities, price and sales and client management capabilities. We also face competition from non-U.S.-based outsourcing and IT companies (including those in the U.K. and India) and U.S.-based outsourcing and IT companies. In addition, the trend toward offshore outsourcing, international expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and continuing technological changes, such as cloud computing, will result in new and different competition for our services. These competitors may include entrants from the communications, software and data networking industries or entrants in geographic locations with lower costs than those in which we operate. Some of these existing and future competitors have greater financial, personnel and other resources, a broader range of service offerings, greater technological expertise, more recognizable brand names and more established relationships in industries that we currently serve or may serve in the future. In addition, some of our competitors may enter into strategic or commercial relationships among themselves or with larger, more established companies in order to increase their ability to address client needs, or enter into similar arrangements with potential clients. The trend in multi-vendor relationships has been growing, which could reduce our revenues to the extent that we are required to modify the terms of our relationship with clients or that clients obtain services from other vendors. Increased competition, our inability to compete successfully against competitors, pricing pressures or loss of market share could result in reduced operating margins, which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We expect competition to intensify in the future as more companies enter our markets. Increased competition may result in lower prices and volumes, higher costs for resources, especially people, and lower profitability. We may not be able to supply clients with services that they deem superior and at competitive prices and we may lose business to our competitors. Any inability to compete effectively would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may disrupt our clients’ operations as a result of inadequate service or other factors, including telecommunications or technology downtime or interruptions. The services we provide are often critical to our clients’ businesses, and any failure to provide those services could result in a reduction in revenues or a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of whether we are responsible for that failure. Most of our agreements with clients contain service level and performance requirements, including requirements relating to the quality of our services. Failure to consistently meet service requirements of a client or errors made by our employees in the course of delivering services to our clients could disrupt the client’s business and result in a reduction in revenues or a claim for damages against us. Additionally, we could incur certain liabilities if a process we manage for a client were to result in internal control failures or impair our client’s ability to comply with its own internal control requirements. Under a majority of our agreements with our clients, our liability for breach of certain of our obligations is generally limited to actual damages suffered by the client and is typically capped at the greater of an agreed amount or the fees paid or payable to us for a period of time under the relevant agreement. These limitations and caps on liability may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients or liability for breaches of confidentiality, are generally not limited under those agreements. Our agreements are governed by laws of multiple jurisdictions, therefore the interpretation of such provisions, and the availability of defenses to us, may vary, which may contribute to the uncertainty as to the scope of our potential liability. Our dependence on our offshore operations centers requires us to maintain active voice and data communications among our operations centers, our international technology hubs and our clients’ offices. 23 Table of Contents Although we maintain redundant facilities and communications links, disruptions could result from, among other things, technical breakdowns, computer glitches and viruses and weather conditions. We also depend on certain significant vendors for facility storage and related maintenance of our main technology equipment and data at those technology hubs. Any failure by these vendors to perform those services, any temporary or permanent loss of our equipment or systems, or any disruptions to basic infrastructure like power and telecommunications could impede our ability to provide services to our clients, have a negative impact on our reputation, cause us to lose clients, reduce our revenues and harm our business. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if we do not protect our intellectual property or if our services are found to infringe on the intellectual property of others. Our success depends in part on certain methodologies, practices, tools and technical expertise we utilize in designing, developing, implementing and maintaining applications and other proprietary intellectual property rights. In order to protect our rights in these various intellectual properties, we rely upon a combination of nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements as well as trade secret, copyright and trademark laws. We also generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, clients and potential clients and limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We also have submitted and expect to continue to submit U.S. federal and foreign trademark applications for the names of certain service offerings. We may not be successful in maintaining or obtaining trademarks for these trade names. India is a member of the Berne Convention, an international intellectual property treaty, and has agreed to recognize protections on intellectual property rights conferred under the laws of other foreign countries, including the laws of the U.S. There can be no assurance that the laws, rules, regulations and treaties in effect in the U.S., India and the other jurisdictions in which we operate and the contractual and other protective measures we take, are adequate to protect us from misappropriation or unauthorized use of our intellectual property, or that such laws will not change. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our rights, and any such steps may not be successful. Infringement by others of our intellectual property, including the costs of enforcing our intellectual property rights, may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our client contracts generally require our clients to indemnify us for any breaches of intellectual property or licenses to third party software when our clients provide such access to us. Although we believe that we are not infringing on the intellectual property rights of others, claims may nonetheless be asserted against us in the future. The costs of defending any such claims could be significant, and any successful claim may require us to modify, discontinue or rename any of our services. Any such changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to protracted and costly litigation and cause us to lose clients. We are typically required to collect and store sensitive data in connection with our services, including names, addresses, social security numbers, personal health information, credit card account numbers, checking and savings account numbers and payment history records, such as account closures and returned checks. As a result, we are subject to various data protection and privacy laws in countries in which we operate. In addition, many of our agreements with our clients do not include any limitation on our liability to them with respect to breaches of our obligation to keep the information we receive from them confidential. We devote substantial resources to maintaining adequate levels of cybersecurity and to protecting confidential client and customer data. However, any network infrastructure may be vulnerable to rapidly evolving cyber attacks. If any person, including any of our employees, penetrates our network security or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates sensitive data, we could be subject to significant liability and lawsuits from our clients or their own customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. We have obtained privacy and network security insurance for claims related to breaches of our privacy and network security, including unauthorized access to or disclosure of sensitive data, suspension or interruption of our network infrastructure, transmission of computer viruses or failure to comply with our privacy and network security procedures. However, such coverage may not 24 Table of Contents be adequate or may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claims. Cyber attacks penetrating the network security of our data centers could also have a negative impact on our reputation and client confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may not be fully insured for all losses we may incur. Although we attempt to limit and mitigate our liability for damages arising from negligent acts, errors or omissions through contractual provisions, limitations of liability set forth in our contracts may not be enforceable in all instances or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients, are generally not limited under those agreements. Although we have general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions, property damage or loss and breaches of privacy and network security, that coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements), could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Oak Hill Capital Partners, L.P and certain of its affiliates and Rohit Kapoor exercise significant influence over us, and their interests in our business may be different than yours. A majority of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock are currently beneficially owned by Oak Hill Capital Partners, L.P. (Oak Hill) and certain of its affiliates and our President and Chief Executive Officer, Rohit Kapoor. As of December 31, 2011, Oak Hill and certain of its affiliates beneficially owned 5,542,504 shares (or 17.8%) of our outstanding common stock; and Mr. Kapoor and certain trusts for his benefit and that of his family collectively beneficially owned 1,741,697 shares (or 5.6%) of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, each of these parties can exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs and all matters requiring a stockholders’ vote, including the composition of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership also may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. The interests of these stockholders may conflict with your interests. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, and, because we are a holding company, we may be unable to pay dividends. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition and results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, including restrictions under our credit agreement, business prospects and other factors that our board of directors considers relevant. Furthermore, because we are a holding company, any dividend payments would depend on the cash flow of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, we may not be able to pay dividends even if our board of directors would otherwise deem it appropriate. We may choose to expand operations to additional countries and may not be successful in maintaining our current profit margins in our new locations due to factors beyond our control. We are currently continuing to evaluate additional locations outside our current operating geographies in which to invest in an operations center. We cannot predict the extent of government support, availability of qualified workers, or monetary and economic conditions in other countries. Although some of these factors will influence our decision to establish operations in another country, there are inherent risks beyond our control, including exposure to currency fluctuations, political uncertainties, foreign exchange restrictions and foreign 25 Table of Contents regulatory restrictions. One or more of these factors or other factors relating to expanded international operations could result in increased operating expenses and make it more difficult for us to manage our costs and operations, which could harm our business and negatively impact our operating results. We may increase the range of services that we provide to our clients and our business and future prospects are difficult to evaluate. We are exploring opportunities to provide services that we have not provided to date. Should we decide to expand our service offerings, our results of operations may be negatively affected during any transition or growth period before such offerings achieve profitability. For example, we may need to expand our training of our existing employees or recruit new, specially-trained employees to provide these services, which could increase our costs of revenues disproportionately to the revenues generated by such services. Other challenges we may face include the diversion of our management’s attention, attracting and retaining clients for such services, integrating any new services into our current suite of services and managing any resulting growth in our operations. Failure to adhere to the regulations that govern our business could have an adverse impact on our operations. Our clients are often subject to regulations that may require that we comply with certain rules and regulations in performing services for them that would not otherwise apply to us. Debt collection services, for example, may be subject to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, which regulates debt collection practices. In addition, many U.S. states require a debt collector to apply for, be granted and maintain a license to engage in debt collection activities in a state. We are currently licensed (or exempt from licensing requirements) to provide debt collection services in the U.S. from India in all but two U.S. states and from the Philippines in 35 U.S. states that have non-exempt requirements and have separate conditional exemptions with respect to our ongoing collection obligations. If we do not maintain our licenses or other qualifications to provide our services, we may not be able to provide services to existing customers or be able to attract new clients and could lose revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Other U.S. federal laws and regulations that apply to certain portions of our business include the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the HITECH Act of 2009, the Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act and FDIC rules and regulations. We must also comply with applicable regulations relating to healthcare and other personal information that we must process as part of our services. Our agreements with some of our clients require us to remain knowledgeable about and comply with a number of relevant consumer protection laws and other regulatory requirements. Failure to perform our services in a manner that complies with any such requirement could result in breaches of contracts with our clients. Our failure to comply with any applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil fines and criminal penalties. Risks Related to the International Nature of Our Business Our financial condition could be negatively affected if foreign governments reduce or withdraw tax benefits and other incentives currently provided to companies within our industry, or if the same are not available for other reasons. Under the Income Tax Act, 1961 of India, we previously benefited from certain tax incentives promulgated by the Indian government, including a tax holiday from Indian corporate income taxes for the operation of some of our Indian operations centers. The tax benefit for most of our operations centers in India expired on April 1, 2011. Our operations centers in Jaipur and Noida, which were established in SEZs in 2010, are eligible for tax incentives until 2020. As part of the OPI Acquisition, we also acquired operations centers in Bengaluru and Kochi, India that are also established in SEZs. The operations center in Bengaluru will complete its first five years of operations on March 31, 2012. Under the tax regulations, the Bengaluru operations center will be entitled to a 50% tax exemption on profits from April 1, 2012, after which there will be an increase in the tax expense for such center. We anticipate establishing additional operations centers in SEZs in the future. 26 Table of Contents The Direct Taxes Code Bill 2010 (the Direct Taxes Code) proposed by the Government of India and currently pending before the Indian Parliament proposes grandfathering the existing profit-based tax benefits for operations centers in SEZs already receiving such tax benefits. The Direct Taxes Code also proposes discontinuing profit-based incentives for operations centers in SEZs set up after March 31, 2014 and replaces them with investment-based incentives for operations centers in SEZs established after that date. Accordingly, we expect to continue receiving the benefit of tax deductions for our existing operations centers in SEZs pursuant to the current regulations until the currently proposed March 31, 2014 sunset date. If this grandfathering does not happen under the Direct Taxes Code and if the sunset date is brought forward, our new operations centers in SEZs will not receive profit-based tax benefits. Without such benefits, we expect that our tax rate in India and our overall tax rate will increase over the next few years and that such increase may be material. We currently benefit from a four-year income tax holiday for one of our operations centers in the Philippines that will expire in the middle of 2012 but is extendable for an additional two years. Our new operations center in the Philippines, inaugurated in January 2012, will also benefit from a four-year income tax holiday that is extendable for an additional two years. While we intend to apply for extensions of these holidays when they expire, it is possible that such extensions could be denied, or these holidays could be removed entirely due to changes in the government of the Philippines. Should either of these events occur, our Philippine tax liability could increase. We may be required to pay additional taxes in connection with audits by the Indian taxing authorities. U.S. and Indian transfer pricing regulations require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be at an arm’s-length price. Transactions among the Company’s subsidiaries and the Company may be required to satisfy such requirements. Accordingly, the Company determines the pricing among its associated enterprises on the basis of detailed functional and economic analysis involving benchmarking against transactions among entities that are not under common control. The tax authorities have jurisdiction to review this arrangement and in the event that they determine that the transfer price applied was not appropriate, the Company may incur increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties. The Company is currently involved in disputes with the Indian tax authorities over the application of some of its transfer pricing policies for past years. Please see Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for details. Based on advice from our Indian tax advisors, the facts underlying our position and our experience with these types of assessments, we continue to believe that the probability of loss is remote and have not accrued any amount with respect to these matters in our consolidated financial statements. Any amounts paid by us as deposits will be refunded to us with interest or applied toward outstanding disputes at such time if we succeed in our appeals with the appropriate tax authorities. We cannot assure you that our appeals will be successful or that these appeals will be finally resolved in the near future. Introduction of tax legislation and disputes with tax authorities may have an adverse effect on our operations and our overall tax rate. Governments in countries in which we operate or provide services could enact new tax legislation which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our ability to repatriate surplus earnings from our operations centers in a tax-efficient manner is dependent upon interpretations of local laws, possible changes in such laws and the renegotiation of existing double tax avoidance treaties. Changes to any of these may adversely affect our overall tax rate, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, if a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and determines that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, or that other income of our affiliates should be taxed in that jurisdiction, we may incur increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase, possibly materially, thereby reducing our profitability and cash flows. 27 Table of Contents Currency fluctuations among the Indian rupee, the U.K. pound sterling, the Philippine peso and the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although a substantial portion of our revenues are denominated in U.K. pounds sterling (22.0% in 2011) or U.S. dollars (71.8% in 2011), most of our expenses (57.6% in 2011) are incurred and paid in Indian rupees. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates among the Indian rupee, the U.K. pound sterling, the Philippine peso and the U.S. dollar have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. Although we take steps to hedge a substantial portion of our Indian rupee/U.S. dollar foreign currency exposures, our results of operations may be adversely affected if the Indian rupee fluctuates significantly against the U.K. pound sterling or the U.S. dollar, the U.K. pound sterling further depreciates against the U.S. dollar, our hedging strategy is unsuccessful or if the hedging markets have insufficient liquidity or depth to allow us to implement our hedging strategy in a cost-effective manner. Any failure by our hedging counterparties to meet their contractual obligations could materially and adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to legal restrictions on hedging activities as well as the convertibility of currencies in India. This could limit our ability to use cash generated in one country in another country and could limit our ability to hedge our exposures. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence involving India, the Philippines, the U.S. or other countries could adversely affect the financial markets, result in a loss of client confidence and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, including those involving India, the Philippines, the U.S. or other countries, may adversely affect worldwide financial markets and could potentially lead to economic recession, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These events could adversely affect our clients’ levels of business activity and precipitate sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. These events also pose significant risks to our people and to our operations centers. South Asia has, from time to time, experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including Bangladesh, Pakistan and China. In recent years there have been several instances of military confrontations along the Indo-Pakistani border. There continues to be potential for hostilities between India and Pakistan due to recent terrorist activities and the geopolitical climate along the border. Although this has not been the case to date, such political tensions could create a perception that there is a risk of disruption of services provided by India-based companies, which could have a material adverse effect on the market for our services. Furthermore, if India were to become engaged in armed hostilities, particularly hostilities that were protracted or involved the threat or use of nuclear weapons, we might not be able to continue to operate. Our insurance policies may not insure us against losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war. We may face difficulties as we expand our operations into countries in which we have no prior operating experience. We intend to continue to expand our global footprint in order to maintain an appropriate cost structure and meet our clients’ delivery needs. This may involve expanding into countries other than those in which we currently operate. It may involve expanding into less developed countries, which may have less political, social or economic stability and less developed infrastructure and legal systems. As we expand our business into new countries we may encounter regulatory, personnel, technological and other difficulties that increase our expenses or delay our ability to start up our operations or become profitable in such countries. This may affect our relationships with our clients and could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A substantial portion of our assets and operations are located in India, and we are subject to regulatory, economic and political uncertainties in India. Our principal operating subsidiaries are incorporated in India, and a majority of our assets and our professionals are located in India. We intend to continue to develop and expand our offshore facilities in India. In 28 Table of Contents the early 1990s, India experienced significant inflation, low growth in gross domestic product and shortages of foreign currency reserves. The Indian government, however, has exercised and continues to exercise significant influence over many aspects of the Indian economy. India’s government has provided significant tax incentives and relaxed certain regulatory restrictions in order to encourage foreign investment in specified sectors of the economy, including the BPO industry. Certain of those programs, which have benefited us, include tax holidays, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation. We cannot assure you that liberalization policies will continue. Various factors, such as changes in the current federal government, could trigger significant changes in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies and disrupt business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. The choice of India as an outsourcing destination and our financial performance may be adversely affected by general economic conditions and economic and fiscal policy in India, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies, as well as social stability and political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. In particular, India has experienced significant economic growth over the last several years, but faces major challenges in sustaining that growth in the years ahead. These challenges include the need for substantial infrastructure development and improving access to healthcare and education. Our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, develop and operate our operations centers, and attract and retain clients could be adversely affected if India does not successfully meet these challenges. The Philippines periodically experiences political or economic instability, which could disrupt our operations, increase our costs and harm our business. The Philippines has experienced significant inflation, currency declines and shortages of foreign exchange. We are exposed to the risk of cost increases due to inflation in the Philippines, which has historically been at a much higher rate than in the U.S. These conditions could create political or economic instability that could harm businesses operating in the Philippines. In addition, the Philippines has experienced and may continue to experience civil unrest, terrorism and political turmoil, resulting in temporary work stoppages and telecommunication or other technology outages. These instabilities and any adverse changes in the political environment in the Philippines could increase our operational costs, increase our exposure to legal and business risks and make it more difficult for us to operate our business in the Philippines. Restrictions on entry visas may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the U.S., which could have a material adverse effect on future revenues. The vast majority of our employees are Indian nationals. The ability of some of our executives and employees to work with and meet our U.S. and European clients and our clients from other countries depends on their ability to obtain the necessary visas and entry permits. In response to terrorist attacks, the global economic downturn and public sentiments about the high unemployment rates in their respective economies, U.S. and European immigration authorities have increased the level of scrutiny in granting visas. Immigration laws in those countries may also require us to meet certain levels of compensation and comply with other legal requirements as a condition to obtaining or maintaining entry visas. These restrictions have increased the application fees for certain types of visas and have significantly lengthened the time requirements to obtain visas for our personnel, which has in the past resulted, and may continue to result, in delays in the ability of our personnel to meet with our clients. In addition, immigration laws are subject to legislative change and varying standards of application and enforcement due to political forces, economic conditions or other events, including terrorist attacks. We cannot predict the political or economic events that could affect immigration laws or any restrictive impact those events could have on obtaining or monitoring entry visas for our professionals. If we are unable to obtain the necessary visas for personnel who need to get to our clients’ sites, or if the duration of such visas is shortened or if such visas are delayed, we may not be able to provide services to our clients or to continue to provide these services on a timely and cost effective basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 29 Table of Contents An outbreak of an infectious disease or any other serious public health concerns in Asia or elsewhere could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The outbreak of an infectious disease in Asia or elsewhere or any other serious public health concerns could have a negative impact on the economies, financial markets and business activities in the countries in which our end markets are located, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Past outbreaks of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome, avian influenza, or bird flu, or H1N1 across Asia and Europe have adversely affected a number of countries and companies. Although we have not been adversely impacted by these recent outbreaks, we can give no assurance that a future outbreak of an infectious disease among humans or animals or any other serious public health concerns will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We are vulnerable to natural disasters that could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. India and the Philippines are susceptible to natural disasters, including typhoons, tsunamis, floods and earthquakes. The Philippines is additionally susceptible to volcanic eruptions. Substantially all of our operations centers and employees are located in India and the Philippines. If our operations centers are damaged by a typhoon, tsunami, flood, earthquake, volcanic eruption or other natural disaster, our operations and our ability to provide services to our clients could be interrupted or delayed significantly. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. In addition, although all of our operations centers have access to other power sources, disaster management facilities in India may not be adequate to protect against potential losses. In addition, clients may terminate their contracts with us if we cannot resume providing services quickly enough. As a result, a natural disaster in India or the Philippines could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Investors may have difficulty effecting service of process or enforcing judgments obtained in the U.S. against our subsidiaries in India or our executive officers. Our primary operating subsidiaries are organized outside the U.S. and a number of our executive officers reside outside of the U.S. A substantial portion of our assets are located in India. As a result, you may be unable to effect service of process upon our affiliates who reside in India outside their jurisdiction of residence. In addition, you may be unable to enforce against these persons outside the jurisdiction of their residence judgments obtained in courts of the U.S., including judgments predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the U.S. Sections 44A and Section 13 of the Indian Civil Procedure Code, 1908, or the Civil Code, govern recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments. Section 44A of the Civil Code provides for recognition and enforcement of a foreign judgment without having to file an original suit in India, provided such judgments have been rendered by courts in a country or territory outside India which the Government of India has declared to be a reciprocating territory. We have been advised by our Indian counsel that the U.S. and India do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than certain arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the U.S. based on civil liability, whether or not it is predicated upon the federal securities laws of the U.S., would not be enforceable in India as such. However, if the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered brings a new suit in a competent court in India based on a final judgment that has been obtained in the U.S., Section 13 of the Civil Code provides that the foreign judgment will be conclusive as to certain matters. The suit must be brought in India within three years of the date of the foreign judgment. It is unlikely, however, that a court in India would award damages on the same basis as a court in the U.S. if an action is brought in India. It is also unlikely that an Indian court would enforce judgments obtained in the U.S. if it viewed the amount of damages awarded as excessive or inconsistent with Indian practice. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 