Item 1A. Risk Factors. An investment in our securities involves a number of significant risks. In addition to the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K, you should consider the following information before making an investment in our securities. The risks set forth below are not the only risks we face, and we face other risks which we have not yet identified, which we do not currently deem material or which are not yet predictable. If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In such case, our net asset value and the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Investments Continuation of the current decline in oil and natural gas prices for a prolonged period of time would have a material adverse effect on our investment portfolio. A significant portion of our portfolio is invested in energy-related businesses. The recent decline in oil or natural gas prices has adversely affected the credit quality and, in some cases, the fair value, of these investments. A prolonged continuation or further decline in oil or natural gas prices would further significantly affect the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of these businesses and their ability to meet financial commitments, which would, in turn, negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Should the current decline in oil and natural gas prices persist, it is likely that our portfolio companies’ abilities to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders will be adversely affected, thereby negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. Certain payments of our limited term overriding royalty interest, or ORRIs, granted by ATP Oil & Gas Corporation have been delayed as a result of bankruptcy proceedings. There is a risk that the consequences of these delays or future adverse rulings by the bankruptcy court could prevent us from recovering our full investment in the ORRIs, including requiring us to disgorge certain other amounts received by us with respect to the limited term ORRIs. In 2011 and 2012, we purchased from ATP Oil & Gas Corporation, or ATP, limited-term ORRIs in certain offshore oil and gas producing properties operated by ATP in the Gulf of Mexico. Under this arrangement, we purchased the right to portions (ranging from 5.0% to 10.8%) of the monthly production proceeds from oil and gas properties known as the Gomez and Telemark properties. The terms of the ORRIs provide that they will terminate after we receive payments that equal our investment in the ORRIs plus a time-value factor that is calculated at a rate of 13.2% per annum. On August 17, 2012, ATP filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. On June 26, 2014, the bankruptcy court entered an order converting ATP’s bankruptcy case to a case under Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and, as a result, the bankruptcy estate is now being administered by a Chapter 7 trustee. Please refer to “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” for further discussion of the ATP litigation. As of December 31, 2014, our unrecovered investment was $26.9 million, and we had received aggregate production payments of $32.5 million subject to a disgorgement agreement. In addition, as of December 31, 2014, we had incurred legal and consulting fees totaling $4.8 million in connection with the enforcement of our rights under the ORRIs, $4.7 million of which has been added to the unrecovered investment balance under the terms of the ORRI agreements. Legal and consulting fees totaling $0.1 million and $0.5 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, are included in accounts receivable and other current assets on our consolidated balance sheets. Payments not made on the ORRIs for two months of pre-petition production have been delayed, thus extending the time for termination of the ORRI, and may never be made in full. It is also possible that our rights to payments for post-petition production, as well as post-petition payments actually received, could be delayed subject to disgorgement in the bankruptcy proceedings or otherwise adversely affected in ATP’s bankruptcy proceedings, resulting in our inability to recover our investment in full and our expected return. If we do not receive payments for post-petition production from the wells subject to the ORRIs in amounts sufficient to provide for termination of the ORRIs prior to the remaining operating wells being shut in, then we would fail to recover, in full, our investment plus the associated time-value factor. Moreover, if production from the operating wells declines significantly, the fair value of our ORRIs could be adversely affected. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS Economic downturns or recessions could impair our portfolio companies’ operations and ability to satisfy obligations to their respective lenders, including us, which could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends. The conditions and overall strength of the national and regional economies, including interest rate fluctuations, changes in capital markets and changes in the prices of their primary commodities and products, will generally affect our portfolio companies. These factors could adversely impact the results of operations of our portfolio companies. Our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic downturns or recessions and may be unable to satisfy financial covenants or to repay our loans during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic downturns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and decreases in revenues, net income and assets. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on the assets securing such loans, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold and the value of any equity securities we own. These events could temporarily or permanently reduce the fair value of certain of our investments, prevent us from making additional investments, and harm our operating results and negatively affect our ability to pay dividends. The energy industry is subject to many risks. We have a significant concentration of investments in the energy industry. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of energy companies can fluctuate suddenly and dramatically due to any one or more of the following factors: Commodity Pricing Risk. In general, commodity prices directly affect energy companies, such as the market prices of crude oil, natural gas, coal and wholesale electricity, especially for those who own the underlying energy commodity. In addition, the volatility of commodity prices can affect other energy companies due to the impact of prices on the volume of commodities produced, transported, processed, stored or distributed and on the cost of fuel for power generation companies. The volatility of commodity prices can also affect energy companies’ ability to access the capital markets in light of market perception that their performance may be directly tied to commodity prices. Historically, energy commodity prices have been cyclical and exhibited significant volatility, such as the recent significant decline in oil and natural gas prices. Some of our portfolio companies may not engage in hedging transactions to minimize their exposure to commodity price risk. Those companies that engage in such hedging transactions remain subject to market risks, including market liquidity and counterparty creditworthiness. Regulatory Risk. Changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect the profitability of energy companies. Federal, state and local governments heavily regulate the businesses of energy companies in diverse matters, such as the way in which energy assets are constructed, maintained and operated, environmental regulations and requirements, and the prices energy companies may charge for their products and services. Such regulation can change over time in scope and intensity. Additionally, certain states in which our portfolio companies operate have adopted, or are considering adopting, new or more stringent disclosure and additional well-location and well-construction requirements related to production operations. Moreover, many state and federal environmental laws provide for civil penalties as well as regulatory remediation, thus adding to the potential liability an energy company may face. Production Risk. The volume of crude oil, natural gas or other energy commodities available for producing, transporting, processing, storing, distributing or generating power may materially impact the profitability of energy companies. A significant decrease in the production of natural gas, crude oil, coal or other energy commodities, due to the decline of production from existing facilities, import supply disruption, depressed commodity prices, political events, OPEC actions or otherwise, could reduce revenue and operating income or increase operating costs of energy companies and, therefore, their ability to service debt or pay dividends. Similarly, the excess production of crude oil, natural gas or other energy commodities may result in the decline in the prices of these commodities, which could negatively impact the results of operations and financial condition of operating companies, including their ability to service debt obligations or pay dividends. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS Demand Risk. A sustained decline in demand for crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products, coal and electricity could materially affect revenues and cash flows of energy companies. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include a recession or other adverse economic conditions, increases in the market price of the underlying commodity, higher taxes or other regulatory actions that increase costs, or shifts in consumer demand for such products. The long-term effect of a decline in demand is uncertain, and may adversely impact a portfolio company’s ability to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders. Depletion and Exploration Risk. A portion of an energy company’s assets may consist of natural gas, crude oil and/or coal reserves and other commodities that naturally deplete over time. Depletion could have a material adverse impact on such company’s ability to maintain its revenue. Further, estimates of energy reserves may not be accurate and, even if accurate, reserves may not be produced profitably. In addition, exploration of energy resources, especially of oil and natural gas, is inherently risky and requires large amounts of capital. Weather Risk. Unseasonable extreme weather patterns could result in significant volatility in demand for energy and power or may directly affect the operations of individual companies. In addition, hurricanes (particularly those along the Gulf Coast or in the Gulf of Mexico) could damage offshore production platforms or coastal oil or natural gas gathering or transmission facilities, causing delays or disruption in the flows of oil and natural gas to the marketplace. These weather-related risks may create fluctuations in earnings of energy companies. Operational Risk. Energy companies are subject to various operational risks, such as failed drilling or well development, unscheduled outages, underestimated cost projections, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, failure to obtain the necessary permits to operate and failure of third-party contractors (such as energy producers and shippers) to perform their contractual obligations. In addition, energy companies employ a variety of means of increasing cash flow, including increasing utilization of existing facilities, expanding operations through new construction, expanding operations through acquisitions, or securing additional long-term contracts. Thus, some energy companies may be subject to construction risk, acquisition risk or other risks arising from their specific business strategies. Competition Risk. Our energy-focused portfolio companies face substantial competition in acquiring properties, enhancing and developing their assets, marketing their commodities, securing trained personnel and operating their properties. Many of their competitors, including major oil companies, natural gas utilities, independent power producers and other private independent energy companies, may have financial and other resources that substantially exceed their resources. Our energy-focused portfolio companies may face greater competition in the production, marketing and selling of power and energy products brought about in part from the deregulation of the energy markets. Valuation Risk. The valuations of our energy-focused portfolio companies are based, in part, on the value of their assets. The valuations of the assets of our energy-focused portfolio companies are subject to uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves of oil and natural gas and in projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures, which are dependent upon many factors beyond our control. The estimates rely on various assumptions, including, for example, commodity prices, operating expenses, capital expenditures and the availability of funds, and are therefore inherently imprecise indications of future net cash flows. Actual future production, cash flows, taxes, operating expenses, development expenditures and quantities of recoverable reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the value of our investments. Financing Risk. Some of our energy-focused portfolio companies may rely on the capital markets to raise money to pay their existing obligations. Any of the risk factors associated with energy companies described above, general economic and market conditions or other factors may affect their ability to access the capital markets on attractive terms. This may in turn affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us. Climate Change. There may be evidence of global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk and some of our portfolio companies may be adversely affected by climate change. For example, the needs of customers of energy companies vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS humidity. To the extent climate changes affect weather conditions, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increased energy use due to weather changes may require additional investments by our portfolio companies in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our energy-focused portfolio companies’ financial condition through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. Potential lawsuits against or taxes or other regulatory costs imposed on greenhouse gas emitters could also affect energy companies, based on links drawn between greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we target in leveraged companies. We compete with other BDCs, public and private investment funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments than we do, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more portfolio relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act and the Code impose on us. If we are unable to source attractive investments, we may hold a greater percentage of our assets in cash or operate with less leverage than anticipated, which could impact potential returns on our portfolio. We cannot assure you that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, as a result of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we can offer no assurance that we will be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. We do not seek to compete primarily based on the interest rates we will offer, and we believe that some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates that will be comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure. However, if we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structure, we may experience decreased net investment income and increased risk of credit loss. Our investments are risky and highly speculative. We invest primarily in senior secured term loans and mezzanine loans, and select equity investments issued by private and small public middle market companies. Senior Secured Loans. When we make a senior secured term loan investment in a portfolio company, we generally take a security interest in the available assets of the portfolio company, including the equity interests of its subsidiaries, which we expect to help mitigate the risk that we will not be repaid. However, there is a risk that the collateral securing our loans may decrease in value over time, may be difficult to sell in a timely manner, may be difficult to appraise and may fluctuate in value based upon the success of the business and market conditions, including as a result of the inability of the portfolio company to raise additional capital, and, in some circumstances, our lien could be subordinated to claims of other creditors. For example, our lien could be a second lien on the portfolio company’s assets on a loan that is subordinated to a first-lien senior credit security. In addition, deterioration in a portfolio company’s financial condition and prospects, including its inability to raise additional capital, may be accompanied by deterioration in the value of the collateral for the loan. Consequently, the fact that a loan is secured does not guarantee that we will receive principal and interest payments according to the loan’s terms, or at all, or that we will be able to collect on the loan should we be forced to enforce our remedies. Mezzanine Loans. Our mezzanine loans are generally subordinated to senior loans and are generally unsecured. As such, other creditors may rank senior to us in the event of insolvency. This may result in an above average amount of risk and loss of principal. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Equity Investments. When we invest in senior secured loans or mezzanine loans, we may acquire common or preferred equity securities as well. In addition, we may invest directly in the equity securities of portfolio companies. Our goal is ultimately to exit such equity interests and realize gains upon our disposition of interests. However, the equity interests we receive may not appreciate in value and may end up declining in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. Middle Market Companies. Investing in middle market companies involves a number of significant risks, including: • these companies may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their debt securities that we hold, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of any collateral and a reduction in the likelihood of us realizing on any guarantees we may have obtained in connection with our investment; • they typically have shorter operating histories, narrower product lines and smaller market shares than larger businesses, which tend to render them more vulnerable to competitors’ actions and market conditions, as well as general economic downturns; • they are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons; therefore, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of these persons could have a material adverse impact on our portfolio company and, in turn, on us; • limited public information exists about many of these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of OHA’s investment professionals to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential returns from investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose money on our investments; • they generally have less predictable operating results, may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence, and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; and • they may have difficulty accessing the capital markets to meet future capial needs, which may limit their ability to grow or to repay their outstanding indebtedness upon maturity. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries, which will subject us to a risk of significant loss if any of these companies performs poorly or defaults on its obligations under any of its debt instruments or if there is a downturn in a particular industry. Our portfolio may be concentrated in a limited number of portfolio companies and industries. As of December 31, 2014, two portfolio companies represented approximately 45% of the fair value of our investment portfolio. Beyond the asset diversification requirements associated with our qualification as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification and, as a result, our investments may be concentrated in relatively few industries or portfolio companies. As a result, the aggregate returns we realize may be significantly adversely affected if a small number of investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one investment. Additionally, a downturn in any particular industry, such as the energy industry, in which we are invested could also significantly impact our net asset value and the aggregate returns we realize. Our investments in securities rated below investment grade are speculative in nature and are subject to additional risk factors such as increased possibility of default, illiquidity of the security, and changes in value based on changes in interest rates. The securities that we invest in are typically rated below investment grade. Securities rated below investment grade are often referred to as “leveraged loans,” “high yield” or “junk” securities, and may be considered “high risk” compared to debt instruments that are rated investment grade. High yield securities are regarded as having predominantly speculative characteristics with respect to the issuer’s capacity to pay 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS interest and repay principal in accordance with the terms of the obligations and involve major risk exposure to adverse conditions. In addition, high yield securities generally offer a higher current yield than that available from higher grade issues, but typically involve greater risk. These securities are especially sensitive to adverse changes in general economic conditions, to changes in the financial condition of their issuers and to price fluctuation in response to changes in interest rates. During periods of economic downturn or rising interest rates, issuers of below investment grade instruments may experience financial stress that could adversely affect their ability to make payments of principal and interest and increase the possibility of default. The secondary market for high yield securities may not be as liquid as the secondary market for more highly rated securities. In addition, some of our debt investments will not fully amortize during their lifetime, which could result in a loss or a substantial amount of unpaid principal and interest due upon maturity. We may need to raise additional capital to grow because we must distribute most of our income. If we cannot obtain additional capital because of either regulatory or market price constraints, we could be forced to curtail or cease our new lending and investment activities, our net asset value could decrease and our level of distributions and liquidity could be affected adversely. We may need additional capital to fund growth in our investments. A reduction in the availability of new capital could limit our ability to grow. We must distribute at least 90% of our investment company taxable income to our stockholders to maintain our RIC status. As a result, any such cash earnings may not be available to fund investment originations. We expect to borrow from financial institutions and issue additional debt and equity securities. If we fail to obtain funds from such sources or from other sources to fund our investments, it could limit our ability to grow, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our securities. In addition, as a BDC, our ability to borrow or issue preferred stock may be restricted if our total assets are less than 200% of our total borrowings and preferred stock. Our ability to secure additional financing and satisfy our financial obligations under indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon our future operating performance, which is subject to the prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The prolonged continuation or worsening of current economic and capital market conditions could have a material adverse effect on our ability to secure financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unable to obtain debt capital, then our equity investors will not benefit from the potential for increased returns on equity resulting from leverage to the extent that our investment strategy is successful, and we may be limited in our ability to make new commitments or fundings to our portfolio companies. We may suffer a loss if a portfolio company defaults on a loan and the underlying collateral is not sufficient to repay our loan. In the event of a default by a portfolio company on a secured loan, we will only have recourse to the assets collateralizing the loan. If the underlying collateral value is less than the loan amount, we will suffer a loss. In addition, we sometimes make loans that are unsecured, which are subject to the risk that other lenders may be directly secured by the assets of the portfolio company. In the event of a default, those collateralized lenders would have priority over us with respect to the proceeds of a sale of the underlying assets. In the cases described above, we may lack control over the underlying asset collateralizing our loan or the underlying assets of the portfolio company prior to a default, and as a result the value of the collateral may be reduced by acts or omissions by owners or managers of the assets. In the event of bankruptcy of a portfolio company, we may not have full recourse to its assets in order to satisfy our loan, or our loan may be subject to equitable subordination. In addition, certain of our loans are subordinate to other debt of the portfolio company. If a portfolio company defaults on our loan or on debt senior to our loan, or in the event of a portfolio company bankruptcy, our loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt receives payment. Where debt senior to our loan exists, the presence of inter-creditor arrangements may limit our ability to amend our loan documents, assign our loans, accept prepayments, exercise our remedies (through “standstill” periods) and control decisions made in bankruptcy proceedings relating to the portfolio company. Bankruptcy and portfolio company litigation can significantly increase collection losses 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS and the time needed for us to acquire the underlying collateral in the event of a default, during which time the collateral may decline in value, causing us to suffer losses. If the value of collateral underlying our loan declines or interest rates increase during the term of our loan, a portfolio company may not be able to obtain the necessary funds to repay our loan at maturity through refinancing. Decreasing collateral value and/or increasing interest rates may hinder a portfolio company’s ability to refinance our loan because the underlying collateral cannot satisfy the debt service coverage requirements necessary to obtain new financing. If a borrower is unable to repay our loan at maturity, we could suffer a loss which may adversely impact our financial performance. Price declines and illiquidity in the corporate debt markets may adversely affect the fair value of our portfolio investments, reducing our net asset value through increased unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized depreciation that we experience on our loan portfolio may be an indication of future realized losses, which could reduce our income available for distribution and could adversely affect our ability to service our outstanding borrowings. As a BDC, we are required to carry our investments at market value or, if no market value is ascertainable, at fair value as determined in good faith by or under the direction of our Board of Directors and in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Decreases in the market values or fair values of our investments are recorded as unrealized depreciation. Any unrealized depreciation in our loan portfolio could be an indication of a portfolio company’s inability to meet its repayment obligations to us with respect to the affected loans. This could result in realized losses in the future and ultimately in reductions of our income available for distribution in future periods and could materially adversely affect our ability to service our outstanding borrowings. Depending on market conditions, we could incur substantial losses in future periods, which could reduce our net asset value and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to make follow-on investments in our portfolio companies would impair the value of our portfolio. Following an initial investment in a portfolio company, we may make additional investments in that portfolio company as “follow-on” investments, in order to: (i) satisfy credit commitments made in connection with the original investment, based on improved operating results or collateral value of the portfolio company or its assets; (ii) increase or maintain in whole or in part our equity ownership percentage; (iii) exercise warrants, options or convertible securities that were acquired in the original or subsequent financing; or (iv) attempt to preserve or enhance the value of our investment. We may elect not to make follow-on investments or otherwise lack sufficient funds to make those investments. We will have the discretion to make any follow-on investments, subject to the availability of capital resources. The failure to make follow-on investments may, in some circumstances, jeopardize the continued viability of a portfolio company and our initial investment, or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation. Even if we have sufficient capital to make a desired follow-on investment, we may elect not to make a follow-on investment because we may not want to increase our concentration of risk, either because we prefer other opportunities or because we are subject to BDC or RIC diversification requirements that would prevent such follow-on investments. Where we do not hold controlling equity interests in our portfolio companies, we may not be in a position to exercise control over our portfolio companies or to prevent decisions by management of our portfolio companies that could decrease the value of our investments. We currently do not hold and do not in the future expect to hold controlling equity positions in a majority of our portfolio companies. As a result, we are subject to the risk that a portfolio company in which we do not have a controlling interest may make business decisions with which we disagree, and that the management and/or stockholders of such portfolio company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that are adverse to our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity of the debt and equity investments that we typically hold in our portfolio companies, we may not be able to dispose of our investments in the event we disagree with the actions of a portfolio company and may therefore suffer a decrease in the value of our investments. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS Prepayments of our debt investments by our portfolio companies could adversely impact our results of operations and reduce our return on equity. We are subject to the risk that the investments we make in our portfolio companies may be prepaid prior to maturity. When this occurs, we may reduce our borrowings outstanding or reinvest these proceeds in temporary investments, pending their future investment in new portfolio companies. These temporary investments, if any, will typically have substantially lower yields than the debt investment being prepaid, and we could experience significant delays in reinvesting these amounts. Any future investment in a new portfolio company may also be at lower yields than the debt investment that was prepaid. As a result, our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if one or more of our portfolio companies elect to prepay amounts owed to us. Additionally, prepayments could negatively impact our return on equity, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. We may choose to waive or defer enforcement of covenants in the debt securities held in our portfolio, which may cause us to lose all or part of our investment in these companies. We structure the debt investments in our portfolio companies to include business and financial covenants placing affirmative and negative obligations on the operation of the company’s business and its financial condition. However, from time to time we may elect to waive breaches of these covenants, including our right to payment, or waive or defer enforcement of remedies, such as acceleration of obligations or foreclosure on collateral, depending upon the financial condition and prospects of the particular portfolio company. These actions may reduce the likelihood of our receiving the full amount of future payments of interest or principal and be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of the underlying collateral as many of these companies may have limited financial resources, may be unable to meet future obligations and may go bankrupt. This could negatively impact our ability to pay distributions, could adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Our loans could be subject to equitable subordination by a court which would increase our risk of loss with respect to such loans. Courts may apply the doctrine of equitable subordination to subordinate the claim or lien of a lender against a borrower to claims or liens of other creditors of the borrower, when the lender or its affiliates is found to have engaged in unfair, inequitable or fraudulent conduct. The courts have also applied the doctrine of equitable subordination when a lender or its affiliates is found to have exerted inappropriate control over the borrower, including control resulting from the ownership of equity interests in a client. We have made direct equity investments or received warrants in connection with loans. Payments on one or more of our loans, particularly a loan to a borrower in which we also hold an equity interest, may be subject to claims of equitable subordination. If we were deemed to have the ability to control or otherwise exercise influence over the business and affairs of one or more of our portfolio companies resulting in economic hardship to other creditors of that company, this control or influence may constitute grounds for equitable subordination and a court may treat one or more of our loans as if it were unsecured or common equity in the portfolio company. In that case, if the portfolio company were to liquidate, we would be entitled to repayment of our loan on a pro-rata basis with other unsecured debt or, if the effect of subordination was to place us at the level of common equity, then on an equal basis with other holders of the portfolio company’s common equity only after all of its obligations relating to its debt and preferred securities had been satisfied. We may expose ourselves to risks if we engage in hedging transactions. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may expose ourselves to risks associated with such transactions. We may utilize instruments such as forward contracts and interest rate swaps, caps, collars and floors to seek to hedge against fluctuations in the relative values of our portfolio positions from changes in commodity prices and market interest rates. Hedging against a decline in the values of our portfolio positions does not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the values of such positions or prevent losses if the values of such positions decline. However, such hedging can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of such portfolio positions. Such hedging transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the values of the underlying portfolio positions should increase. It may not be possible to hedge against a commodity price or interest rate fluctuation that is so generally anticipated that we are not able to enter into a hedging transaction at an acceptable price. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS The success of our hedging transactions will depend on our ability to correctly predict movements in commodity prices and interest rates. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions to seek to reduce commodity price and interest rate risks, unanticipated changes in commodity prices or interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. To the extent we engage in hedging transactions, we also face the risk that counterparties to the derivative instruments we hold may default, which may expose us to unexpected losses from positions where we believed that our risk had been appropriately hedged. Risks Relating to Our Business and Structure We depend upon senior management personnel of OHA for our future success, and if OHA is unable to retain qualified personnel or if OHA loses any member of its senior management team, our ability to achieve our investment objective could be significantly harmed. We depend on our investment management team, which is provided by OHA, for the identification, final selection, structuring, closing and monitoring of our investments. Our investment team at OHA is integral to our asset management activities and has critical industry experience and relationships that we rely on to implement our business plan. Our future success depends on our investment team’s continued service to OHA. The departure of any of the members of OHA’s investment team could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objective. As a result, we may not be able to operate our business as we expect, and our ability to compete could be harmed, which could cause our operating results to suffer. Our business model depends to a significant extent upon strong referral relationships with financial sponsors, and the inability of OHA to maintain or develop these relationships, or the failure of these relationships to generate investment opportunities, could adversely affect our business. We expect that OHA will maintain and develop their relationships with financial sponsors, and we will rely to a significant extent upon these relationships to provide us with potential investment opportunities. If OHA fails to maintain its existing relationships or develop new relationships with other sponsors or sources of investment opportunities, we will not be able to grow our investment portfolio. In addition, individuals with whom OHA has relationships are not obligated to provide us with investment opportunities, and, therefore, there is no assurance that such relationships will generate investment opportunities for us. If OHA is unable to source investment opportunities, we may hold a greater percentage of our assets in cash than anticipated, which could impact potential returns on our portfolio. OHA has not previously managed a BDC. OHA had not previously managed a BDC prior to September 30, 2014, and the investment philosophy and techniques used by OHA and its investment professionals to manage us may differ from the investment philosophy and techniques employed by our previous investment advisor and its investment professionals. In addition, the 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs that do not apply to the other types of investment vehicles managed by OHA. For example, under the 1940 Act, BDCs are generally required to invest at least 70% of their total assets primarily in securities of qualifying U.S. private or small capitalization companies. OHA’s lack of experience in managing a portfolio of assets under these specific constraints may hinder our ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objectives. As a result, an investment in shares of our common stock may entail more risk than the shares of common stock of a comparable company with an investment advisor with more experience in managing a BDC. There are significant potential conflicts of interest which could adversely impact our investment returns. Our executive officers and directors, and certain investment professionals of OHA, serve or may serve as officers, directors, principals or investment professionals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. OHA and its affiliates also manage private 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS investment funds, and may manage other funds in the future, that have investment objectives or mandates that are similar, in whole and in part, to ours. Accordingly, such individuals and OHA may have obligations to investors in those entities, the fulfillment of which might not be in the best interests of us or our stockholders. For example, the principals of OHA may face conflicts of interest in the allocation of investment opportunities to us and such other funds. OHA has adopted an investment allocation policy that governs the allocation of investment opportunities among the investment funds (including us) that are managed by OHA and its affiliates. To the extent an investment opportunity is appropriate for us or any other investment fund managed by OHA or its affiliates, OHA will adhere to its investment allocation policy in order to determine the allocation of such opportunity among the various investment funds. Although OHA’s investment professionals will endeavor to allocate investment opportunities in a fair and equitable manner, we and our stockholders could be adversely affected to the extent investment opportunities are allocated among us and other investment vehicles managed or sponsored by, or affiliated with, investment professionals of OHA, our executive officers and directors. The 1940 Act prohibits us from making certain negotiated co-investments with certain affiliates unless we receive an order from the SEC permitting us to do so. Prior to receiving any such exemptive order from the SEC, OHA will offer us the right to participate in all investment opportunities that it determines are appropriate for us in view of our investment objectives, policies and strategies and other relevant factors. These offers will be subject to the caveat that, in accordance with OHA’s investment allocation policy, we might not participate in each individual opportunity, but will, on an overall basis, be entitled to participate equitably with other entities managed by OHA or its affiliates. OHA’s investment allocation policy is also designed to manage and mitigate conflicts of interest associated with the allocation of investment opportunities if we are able to co-invest, either pursuant to SEC interpretive positions or an exemptive order, with other funds managed by OHA or its affiliates. Generally, under the investment allocation policy, if we are permitted to co-invest pursuant to an exemptive order, co-investments would be allocated pursuant to the conditions of the exemptive order. If we are able to co-invest pursuant to SEC interpretive positions, generally, under the investment allocation policy, a portion of each opportunity that is appropriate for us and any affiliated fund will be offered to us and such other eligible accounts as determined by OHA and generally based on asset class, fund size and liquidity, among other factors. OHA seeks to treat all clients fairly and equitably such that none receive preferential treatment over the others over time, in a manner consistent with its fiduciary duty to each of them; however, in some instances, especially in instances of limited liquidity, the factors may not result in allocations or may result in situations where certain funds receive allocations where others do not. In addition, because we expect to make investments alongside other investment funds, accounts and other investment vehicles managed by OHA prior to the receipt of any exemptive relief, but consistent with existing regulatory guidance and OHA’s allocation procedures, we may subsequently be prohibited by the 1940 Act from re-negotiating the terms of such co-investments, including with respect to granting loan waivers or concessions or in connection with a restructuring, reorganization or similar transaction involving the portfolio company, to the extent that other investment funds, accounts or other investment vehicles managed by OHA continue to hold such investments at the time. As a result, we may have to sell such investments at such time in order to avoid violating the 1940 Act or otherwise not participate in the re-negotiation of the terms of such co-investments, which may result in investment losses or lost opportunities to generate additional income, or may otherwise negatively impact us. A disruption in the capital markets and the credit markets could negatively affect our business. As a BDC, we must maintain our ability to raise additional capital for investment purposes. Without sufficient access to the capital markets or credit markets, we may be forced to curtail our business operations or we may not be able to pursue new business opportunities. Disruptive conditions in the financial industry and the impact of new legislation in response to those conditions could restrict our business operations and could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. If the fair value of our assets declines substantially, we may fail to maintain the asset coverage ratio imposed upon us by the 1940 Act and our $72.0 million Third Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement (the “Investment Facility”). Any such failure could result in an event of default and all of our 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS debt being declared immediately due and payable and would affect our ability to issue senior securities, including borrowings, and pay distributions, which could materially impair our business operations. Our liquidity could be impaired further by an inability to access the capital markets or to draw on the Investment Facility. For example, we cannot be certain that we will be able to renew the Investment Facility as it matures or to consummate new borrowing facilities to provide capital for normal operations, including new originations. If we are unable to renew or replace the Investment Facility and consummate new facilities on commercially reasonable terms, our liquidity will be reduced significantly. If we are unable to repay amounts outstanding under such facilities and are declared in default or are unable to renew or refinance these facilities, we would not be able to initiate significant originations or to operate our business in the normal course. These situations may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as inaccessibility to the credit markets, a severe decline in the value of the U.S. dollar, a further economic downturn or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, and could materially damage our business. Moreover, we are unable to predict when economic and market conditions may become more favorable. Even if such conditions improve broadly and significantly over the long term, adverse conditions in particular sectors of the financial markets could adversely impact our business. Our financial condition and results of operations will depend on our ability to manage future growth effectively. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to grow depends on OHA’s ability to identify, invest in and monitor companies that meet our investment criteria. Accomplishing this result on a cost-effective basis is largely a function of OHA’s structuring of the investment process, its ability to provide competent, attentive and efficient services to us and its ability to access financing for us on acceptable terms. In order to grow, OHA may need to attract, train, supervise and manage new investment professionals. However, we can offer no assurance that any such investment professionals will contribute effectively to our business or to the work of OHA. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would reduce our operating flexibility. The 1940 Act imposes numerous constraints on the operations of BDCs. For example, BDCs are required to invest at least 70% of their total assets in specified types of securities, primarily in private companies or small U.S. public companies, cash, cash equivalents, U.S. government securities and other high quality debt investments that mature in one year or less. Furthermore, any failure to comply with the requirements imposed on BDCs by the 1940 Act could cause the SEC to bring an enforcement action against us and/or expose us to claims of private litigants. In addition, upon approval of a majority of our stockholders, we may elect to withdraw our status as a BDC. If we decide to withdraw our election, or if we otherwise fail to maintain our qualification as a BDC, we may be subject to the substantially greater regulation under the 1940 Act as a closed-end investment company. Compliance with such regulations would significantly decrease our operating flexibility, and could significantly increase our costs of doing business. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to raise, and the way in which we raise additional capital. As a BDC, the necessity of raising additional capital may expose us to risks, including the typical risks associated with leverage. In order to satisfy the tax requirements applicable to a RIC, to avoid payment of excise taxes and to minimize or avoid payment of income taxes, we intend to distribute to our stockholders substantially all of our ordinary income and realized net capital gains except for certain realized net long-term capital gains, which we may retain, satisfy the applicable income tax obligations with respect thereto and elect to treat as deemed distributions to our stockholders. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. Under the provisions of the 1940 Act, we will be permitted, as a BDC, to issue senior securities in amounts such that our asset coverage ratio, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% of gross assets less all liabilities and indebtedness not represented by senior securities, after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS test and, as a result, we will be limited in our ability to use debt capital to finance our operations. Also, any amounts that we use to service our indebtedness would not be available for distributions to our common stockholders. Furthermore, as a result of issuing senior securities, we would also be exposed to typical risks associated with leverage, including an increased risk of loss. As of December 31, 2014, we had $52.0 million outstanding and $20.0 million available for borrowing under the Investment Facility. If we issue preferred stock, the preferred stock would rank “senior” to common stock in our capital structure, preferred stockholders would generally vote together with common stockholders but would have separate voting rights on certain matters and might have other rights, preferences, or privileges more favorable than those of our common stockholders, and the issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for holders of our common stock or otherwise be in your best interest. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock at a price below the then-current net asset value per share of our common stock if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of OHAI and its stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale. In any such case, the price at which our securities are to be issued and sold may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If we raise additional funds by issuing more common stock or senior securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common stock, then the percentage ownership of our stockholders at that time will decrease, and you might experience dilution. This dilution would occur as a result of a proportionately greater decrease in a stockholder’s interest in our earnings and assets and voting interest in us than the increase in our assets resulting from such issuance. Because the number of future shares of common stock that may be issued below our net asset value per share and the price and timing of such issuances are not currently known, we cannot predict the actual dilutive effect of any such issuance. We cannot determine the resulting reduction in our net asset value per share of any such issuance. We also cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our net asset value. We borrow money, which magnifies the potential for loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. The use of leverage magnifies the potential for loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increases the risks associated with investing in our securities. We currently borrow under our $72.0 million Investment Facility and in the future may borrow from or issue senior debt securities. As of December 31, 2014, we had $52.0 million outstanding under the Investment Facility. We may borrow from and issue senior debt securities to banks, insurance companies and other lenders in the future. Lenders of these senior securities, including the Investment Facility, will have fixed dollar claims on our assets that are superior to the claims of our stockholders, and we would expect such lenders to seek recovery against our assets in the event of a default. If the value of our assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any decrease in our income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could also negatively affect our ability to make distribution payments on our common stock. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. Our ability to service any debt that we incur will depend largely on our financial performance and will be subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. Moreover, as the management fee payable to OHA will be payable based on our gross assets, including those assets acquired through the use of leverage, OHA will have a financial incentive to incur leverage which may not be consistent with our stockholders’ interests. In addition, our stockholders will bear the burden of any increase in our expenses as a result of leverage, including any increase in the management fee payable to OHA. As a BDC, we generally are required to meet a coverage ratio of total assets to total borrowings and other senior securities, which include all of our borrowings and any preferred stock that we may issue in the future, of at least 200%. Additionally, the Investment Facility requires us to comply with certain financial and other restrictive covenants including maintaining an asset coverage ratio, as defined in the credit agreement, of not less than 2:25 to 1.00 at any time. Failure to maintain compliance with these covenants could result in an event of default and all of our debt being declared immediately due and payable. If this ratio declines below 225%, we may not be able to incur additional debt, which could have a material adverse effect on our 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS operations, and we may not be able to make distributions to our stockholders. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on OHA’s and our Board of Directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain credit at all or on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the Investment Facility imposes, and any other debt facility into which we may enter would likely impose financial and operating covenants that restrict our business activities, including limitations that could hinder our ability to finance additional loans and investments or to make the distributions required to maintain our status as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. Substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests under the Investment Facility, and if we default on our obligations under the Investment Facility, we may suffer adverse consequences, including foreclosure on our assets. As of December 31, 2014, substantially all of our assets were pledged as collateral under the Investment Facility. If we default on our obligations under this facility, the lenders may have the right to foreclose upon and sell, or otherwise transfer, the collateral subject to their security interests or their superior claim. In such event, we may be forced to sell our investments to raise funds to repay our outstanding borrowings in order to avoid foreclosure and these forced sales may be at times and at prices we would not consider advantageous. Moreover, such deleveraging of our company could significantly impair our ability to effectively operate our business in the manner in which we have historically operated. As a result, we could be forced to curtail or cease new investment activities and lower or eliminate the dividends that we have historically paid to our stockholders. In addition, if the lenders exercise their right to sell the assets pledged under the Investment Facility, such sales may be completed at distressed sale prices, thereby diminishing or potentially eliminating the amount of cash available to us after repayment of the amounts outstanding under the facility. Failure to extend our Investment Facility, which is currently scheduled to expire on May 23, 2016, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position and our ability to pay expenses and make distributions. Our Investment Facility is currently scheduled to expire on May 23, 2016. If the participant banks do not renew or extend the Investment Facility by May 23, 2016, we will not be able to make further borrowings under the facility after such date and the outstanding principal balance on that date will be due and payable. If we are unable to extend our facility or find a new source of borrowing on acceptable terms, we will be required to pay down the amounts outstanding under the facility through one or more of the following: (1) available cash balances, (2) principal collections on our securities pledged under the facility, (3) at our option, interest collections on our securities pledged under the facility, or (4) possible liquidation of some or all of our loans and other assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position and may force us to decrease or stop paying certain expenses and making distributions to stockholders until the facility is repaid. In addition, our stock price could decline significantly, we would be restricted in our ability to acquire new investments and, in connection with our year-end audit, our independent registered public accounting firm could raise an issue as to our ability to continue as a going concern. It is likely that the terms of any current or future long-term or revolving credit or warehouse facility we may enter into in the future could constrain our ability to grow our business. Under our borrowings and the Investment Facility, current lenders have, and any future lender or lenders may have, fixed dollar claims on our assets that are senior to the claims of our stockholders and, thus, will have a preference over our stockholders with respect to our assets in the collateral pool. Our Investment Facility and borrowings also subject us to various financial and operating covenants, including, but not limited to, maintaining certain financial ratios. Future credit facilities and borrowings will likely subject us to similar or additional covenants. In addition, we may grant a security interest in our assets in connection with any such credit facilities and borrowings. The Investment Facility generally contains customary default provisions such as a minimum net asset coverage ratio, an interest coverage ratio and a restriction on changing our business. An event of default under 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS the Investment Facility would likely result in, among other things, termination of the availability of further funds under the Investment Facility and accelerated maturity dates for all amounts outstanding under the Investment Facility, which would likely disrupt our business and, potentially, the business of the portfolio companies whose loans we finance through the Investment Facility. This could reduce our revenues and, by delaying any cash payment allowed to us under the Investment Facility until the lenders have been paid in full, reduce our liquidity and cash flow and impair our ability to grow our business and maintain our status as a RIC. The terms of future available financing may place limits on our financial and operational flexibility. If we are unable to obtain sufficient capital in the future, we may be forced to reduce or discontinue our operations, not be able to make new investments, or otherwise respond to changing business conditions or competitive pressures. To the extent we use debt or preferred stock to finance our investments, changes in interest rates will affect our cost of capital and net investment income. To the extent we borrow money, or issue preferred stock, to make investments, our net investment income will depend, in part, upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds or pay distributions on preferred stock and the rate at which we invest those funds. As a result, we can offer no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income in the event we use debt to finance our investments. In periods of rising interest rates, our cost of funds would increase, except to the extent we issue fixed rate debt or preferred stock, which could reduce our net investment income. We may use interest rate risk management techniques in an effort to limit our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. Such techniques may include various interest rate hedging activities to the extent permitted by the 1940 Act. You should also be aware that a rise in the general level of interest rates can be expected to lead to higher interest rates applicable to our debt investments over time. Accordingly, an increase in interest rates would make it easier for us to meet or exceed the incentive fee hurdle rate and may result in a substantial increase of the amount of incentive fees payable to OHA with respect to our pre-incentive fee net investment income. Pending legislation may allow us to incur additional leverage. As a BDC, under the 1940 Act generally we are not permitted to incur indebtedness unless immediately after such borrowing we have an asset coverage for total borrowings of at least 200% (i.e., the amount of debt may not exceed 50% of the value of our total assets). Recent legislation introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives, if passed, would modify this section of the 1940 Act and increase the amount of debt that BDCs may incur by modifying the percentage from 200% to 150%. As a result, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future and therefore your risk of an investment in us may increase. Our quarterly and annual operating results are subject to fluctuation as a result of the nature of our business, and if we fail to achieve our investment objectives, the net asset value of our common stock may decline. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results due to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the interest rate payable on the debt securities that we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in and the timing of the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, changes in our portfolio composition, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets, market volatility in our publicly traded securities and the securities of our portfolio companies, and general economic conditions. As a result of these factors, results for any period should not be relied upon as being indicative of performance in future periods. In addition, any of these factors could negatively impact our ability to achieve our investment objectives, which may cause our net asset value of our common stock to decline. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS The expiration of reduced rate/expense periods under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement will likely cause our expenses to increase after September 30, 2015. Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, the annual base management fee of 1.75% payable to OHA was reduced by 0.25% from September 30, 2014 until September 30, 2015. As a result, our base management fee will likely increase from current levels once the base management fee increases to 1.75% per annum after September 30, 2015. In addition, the aggregate amount of certain of our costs and expenses payable by us under the Investment Advisory Agreement and the Administration Agreement for the period from October 1, 2014 through September 30, 2015 is limited to $2.5 million (the “Cap”) and, as a result, our expenses are expected to increase following the expiration of the Cap. The increases in these expenses without any corresponding increase in our investment income will likely reduce the amount of our net investment income and the amount of funds available for distribution to our stockholders. We may be obligated to pay OHA incentive compensation even if we incur a loss. OHA will be entitled to incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our pre-incentive fee net investment income for that quarter (before deducting incentive compensation) above a performance threshold for that quarter. Accordingly, since the performance threshold is based on a percentage of our net asset value, decreases in our net asset value reduce the performance threshold required for OHA to earn an incentive fee. Our pre-incentive fee net investment income for incentive compensation purposes excludes realized and unrealized capital losses or depreciation that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses or depreciation result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. Thus, we may be required to pay OHA incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. Our incentive fee arrangement may induce OHA to pursue speculative investments. The incentive fee payable by us to OHA may create an incentive for OHA to pursue investments on our behalf that are riskier or more speculative than would be the case in the absence of such compensation arrangement. The incentive fee payable to OHA is calculated based on a percentage of our return on invested capital. This may encourage OHA to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would impair the value of our common stock. In addition, OHA receives the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike that portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, OHA may have a tendency to invest more capital in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income producing securities. Moreover, for the purpose of calculating OHA’s capital gains incentive fee, any gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio as of September 30, 2014 are excluded. As the capital gains fee is not payable by us to OHA with respect to any legacy investments, OHA may be incented to dispose of those investments with the aim of substituting them with assets for which a capital gains fee would be payable. These incentives could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses, particularly during economic downturns or result in us exiting an investment sooner than that which would have otherwise been optimal for us. The incentive fee payable by us to OHA also may induce OHA to invest on our behalf in instruments that have a deferred interest feature, even if such deferred payments would not provide cash necessary to enable us to pay current distributions to our stockholders. Under these investments, we would accrue interest over the life of the investment but would not receive the cash income from the investment until the end of the term. Our net investment income used to calculate the income portion of our investment fee, however, includes accrued interest. Thus, a portion of this incentive fee would be based on income that we have not yet received in cash. In addition, the “catch-up” portion of the incentive fee may encourage OHA to accelerate or defer interest payable by portfolio companies from one calendar quarter to another, potentially resulting in fluctuations in timing and distribution amounts. We may invest, to the extent permitted by law, in the securities and instruments of other investment companies, including private funds, and, to the extent we so invest, will bear our ratable share of any such investment company’s expenses, including management and performance fees. We will also remain obligated 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS to pay management and incentive fees to OHA with respect to the assets invested in the securities and instruments of other investment companies. With respect to each of these investments, each of our stockholders will bear his or her share of the management and incentive fee of OHA as well as indirectly bearing the management and performance fees and other expenses of any investment companies in which we invest. Under the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement, we may have to pay capital gain incentive fees to OHA in periods in which we have incurred a net realized loss on the sale of our investments. Pursuant to the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement, any gains and losses associated with our investment portfolio as of September 30, 2014, or the legacy portfolio, are excluded from the capital gains fee calculation. As a result, we may have to pay OHA a capital gains incentive fee in periods in which we have incurred a net realized loss on the sale of our investments to the extent that some or all of the realized losses relate to the legacy portfolio. We will become subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to maintain our qualification as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code. Although we have elected to be treated as a RIC under Subchapter M of the Code, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain our RIC status. To maintain RIC tax treatment under the Code, we must meet the following annual distribution, income source and asset diversification requirements. • The annual distribution requirement for a RIC will be satisfied if we distribute to our stockholders on an annual basis at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act and financial covenants under credit agreements, that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to satisfy the distribution requirement. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we could fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment and thus become subject to corporate-level income tax. • The income source requirement will be satisfied if we obtain at least 90% of our income for each year from distributions, interest, gains from the sale of stock or securities or similar sources. • The asset diversification requirement will be satisfied if we meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each quarter of our taxable year. Failure to meet those requirements may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss or RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, and therefore will be relatively illiquid, any such dispositions could be made at disadvantageous prices and could result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify for RIC tax treatment for any reason and become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. Such a failure would have a material adverse effect on us, the net asset value of our common stock and the total return, if any, obtainable from your investment in our common stock. Any net operating losses that we incur in periods during which we qualify as a RIC will not offset net capital gains (i.e., net realized long-term capital gains in excess of net realized short-term capital losses) that we are otherwise required to distribute, and we cannot pass such net operating losses through to our stockholders. In addition, net operating losses that we carry over to a taxable year in which we qualify as a RIC normally cannot offset ordinary income or capital gains. We may have difficulty satisfying the annual distribution requirement in order to qualify and maintain RIC status if we recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and tax requirements, we include in income certain amounts that we have not yet received in cash, such as contractual payment-in-kind (“PIK”) interest, which represents contractual interest added to a loan balance and due at the end of such loan’s term. In addition to the cash yields received on our loans, in some instances, certain loans may also 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS include any of the following: end-of-term payments, “make whole” interest or dividend provisions, exit fees, balloon payment fees or prepayment fees. The increases in loan balances as a result of contractual PIK arrangements are included in income for the period in which such PIK interest was accrued, which is typically in advance of receiving cash payment, and are separately identified on our statements of cash flows. We also may be required to include in income certain other amounts prior to receiving the related cash. Features of some debt instruments in which we invest may include an original issue discount that is recognized as ordinary income, resulting in a distribution requirement in excess of current cash interest received. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the RIC tax requirement to distribute at least 90% of our net ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any. Under such circumstances, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources and are otherwise unable to satisfy such distribution requirements, we may fail to qualify for the federal income tax benefits allowable to RICs and, thus, become subject to a corporate-level income tax on all our income. The higher yields and interest rates on PIK securities reflect the payment deferral and increased credit risk associated with such instruments and that such investments may represent a significantly higher credit risk than coupon loans. PIK securities may have unreliable valuations because their continuing accruals require continuing judgments about the collectability of the deferred payments and the value of any associated collateral. PIK interest has the effect of generating investment income and increasing the incentive fees payable at a compounding rate. In addition, the deferral of PIK interest also increases the loan-to-value ratio at a compounding rate. PIK securities create the risk that incentive fees will be paid to OHA based on non-cash accruals that ultimately may not be realized, but OHA will be under no obligation to reimburse us for these fees. The failure in cyber-security systems, as well as the occurrence of events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems and management continuity planning could impair our ability to conduct business effectively. The occurrence of a disaster such as a cyber attack, a natural catastrophe, an industrial accident, a terrorist attack or war, events unanticipated in our disaster recovery systems, or a support failure from external providers, could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business and on our results of operations and financial condition, particularly if those events affect our computer-based data processing, transmission, storage, and retrieval systems or destroy data. If a significant number of our OHA personnel were unavailable in the event of a disaster, our ability to effectively conduct our business could be severely compromised. We depend heavily upon computer systems to perform necessary business functions. Despite our implementation of a variety of security measures, our computer systems could be subject to cyber attacks and unauthorized access, such as physical and electronic break-ins or unauthorized tampering. Like other companies, we may experience threats to our data and systems, including malware and computer virus attacks, unauthorized access, system failures and disruptions. If one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, financial losses, litigation, increased costs, regulatory penalties and/or customer dissatisfaction or loss. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS We are highly dependent on information systems and systems failures could significantly disrupt our business, which may, in turn, negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions. Our business is highly dependent on our and third parties’ communications and information systems. Any failure or interruption of those systems, including as a result of the termination of an agreement with any third-party service providers, could cause delays or other problems in our activities. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control and adversely affect our business. There could be: • sudden electrical or telecommunications outages; • natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes and hurricanes; • disease pandemics; • events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts; and • cyber attacks. These events, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to pay distributions to our stockholders. Our Board of Directors may change our investment objectives, operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive certain of our investment objectives, operating policies and strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. However, absent stockholder approval, we may not change the nature of our business so as to cease to be, or withdraw our election as, a BDC. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current investment objectives, operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our stock. Nevertheless, the effects may adversely affect our business and impact our ability to make distributions. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations may adversely affect our business. Changes in the laws or regulations, or the interpretations of the laws and regulations, which govern BDCs, RICs or non-depository commercial lenders could significantly affect our operations and our cost of doing business. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations and are subject to judicial and administrative decisions that affect our operations, including our loan originations, maximum interest rates, fees and other charges, disclosures to portfolio companies, the terms of secured transactions, collection and foreclosure procedures, and other trade practices. If these laws, regulations or decisions change, or if we expand our business into jurisdictions that have adopted more stringent requirements than those in which we currently conduct business, then we may have to incur significant expenses in order to comply or we may have to restrict our operations. In addition, if we do not comply with applicable laws, regulations and decisions, then we may lose licenses needed for the conduct of our business and be subject to civil fines and criminal penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon our business results of operations or financial condition. OHA can resign upon 60 days’ notice, and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement within that time, resulting in a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. OHA has the right, under the Investment Advisory Agreement, to resign at any time upon 60 days’ written notice, whether we have found a replacement or not. If OHA resigns, we may not be able to find a new investment advisor or hire internal management with similar expertise and ability to provide the same or equivalent services on acceptable terms within 60 days, or at all. If we are unable to do so quickly, our operations are likely to experience a disruption, our financial condition, business and results of operations as well as our ability to pay distributions are likely to be adversely affected, and the market price of our shares may decline. In addition, the coordination of our internal management and investment activities is likely to 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS suffer if we are unable to identify and reach an agreement with a single institution or group of executives having the expertise possessed by OHA and its affiliates. Even if we are able to retain comparable management, whether internal or external, the integration of such management and their lack of familiarity with our investment objective may result in additional costs and time delays that may adversely affect our financial condition, business and results of operations. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Securities Our shares currently trade at a substantial discount from net asset value and may continue to do so over the long term. Shares of closed-end investment companies have frequently traded at a market price that is less than the net asset value that is attributable to those shares. The possibility that our shares of common stock will trade at a substantial discount from net asset value over the long term is separate and distinct from the risk that our net asset value will decrease. Although we cannot predict whether shares of our common stock will trade above, at or below our net asset value, our common stock has been consistently trading below our net asset value since the fourth quarter of 2008. If our common stock trades below its net asset value, we will generally not be able to issue additional shares or sell our common stock at its market price without first obtaining the approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. Any offering of our common stock that requires stockholder approval must occur, if at all, within one year after receiving such stockholder approval. If additional funds are not available to us, we could be forced to curtail or cease our new lending and investment activities, and our net asset value could decrease and our level of distributions could be impacted. Our common stock price may be volatile and may decrease substantially. The trading price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially. The price of our common stock that will prevail in the market may be higher or lower than the price you pay, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • investor demand for our shares; • significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of securities of BDCs or other companies in our sector, which are not necessarily related to the operating performance of such companies; • exclusion of our common stock from certain market indices which could reduce the ability of certain investment funds to own our common stock; • changes in regulatory policies or tax guidelines with respect to RICs and BDCs; • failure to qualify as a RIC, or the loss of RIC status; • any shortfall in revenue or net investment income or any increase in losses from levels expected by stockholders or securities analysts; • changes, or perceived changes, in the value of our portfolio investments; • departures of OHA’s key personnel; • operating performance of companies comparable to us; and • general economic conditions and trends and other external factors. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. Due to the potential volatility of our stock price, we may become the target of securities litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources from our business. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS There is a risk that our stockholders may not receive distributions or that our distributions may not grow over time. We intend to make distributions on a quarterly basis to our stockholders out of assets legally available for distribution. We cannot assure you that we will achieve investment results that will allow us to make a specified level of cash distributions or year-to-year increases in cash distributions. In addition, due to the asset coverage test applicable to us as a BDC, we may be prohibited in our ability to make distributions in certain limited circumstances. As a RIC, if we do not distribute a certain percentage of our income annually, we will suffer adverse tax consequences, including failure to obtain, or possible loss of, the federal income tax benefits allowable to RICs. We cannot assure you that you will receive distributions at a particular level or at all. We may choose to pay distributions in our own common stock, in which case our stockholders may be required to pay federal income taxes in excess of the cash distributions they receive. We may make taxable distributions that are payable in cash or shares of our common stock at the election of each stockholder. Under certain applicable provisions of the Code and Treasury regulations, distributions payable in cash or in shares of stock at the election of stockholders are treated as taxable distributions. The Internal Revenue Service has issued private rulings indicating that this rule will apply even where the total amount of cash that may be distributed is limited to no more than 20% of the total distribution. Under these rulings, if too many stockholders elect to receive their distributions in cash, each such stockholder would receive a pro rata share of the total cash to be distributed and would receive the remainder of their distribution in shares of stock. If we decide to make any distributions consistent with these rulings that are payable in part in our stock, taxable stockholders receiving such distributions will be required to include the full amount of the distribution (whether received in cash, our stock, or a combination thereof) as ordinary income (or as long-term capital gain to the extent such distribution is properly reported as a capital gain distribution) to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, a U.S. stockholder may be required to pay tax with respect to such distributions in excess of any cash received. If a U.S. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a distribution in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the distribution, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, with respect to non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold U.S. tax with respect to such distributions, including in respect of all or a portion of such distribution that is payable in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders determine to sell shares of our stock in order to pay taxes owed on distributions, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 