ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those expected in those forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We have a history of losses, do not expect to be profitable in the foreseeable future and may never be profitable. Since inception, we have generated limited revenues while incurring significant losses. We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future until such time, if ever, as we are able to achieve sufficient levels of revenue from the commercial exploitation of our P-OLED technology to support our operations. You should note that: • P-OLED technologies may never be broadly commercially adopted; • markets for FPD using P-OLED technologies may be limited; and • we may never generate sufficient revenues from the commercial exploitation of our P-OLED technology to become profitable. We license our P-OLED technology to P-OLED materials manufacturers and display manufacturers, which then incorporate our technology into the materials and products they sell. Even if we and our display manufacturer licensees develop commercially viable applications for our P-OLED technologies, we may never recover our research and development expenses. We had net losses of $13.8 million, $22.6 million (exclusive of the cumulative effect of an accounting change) and $22.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and as of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $167.7 million. We expect to report net losses in future periods. We cannot predict what impact continued net losses might have on our ability to finance our operations in the future or on the market value of our common stock. Because we are at an early stage of development and have a limited operating history, our future results are unpredictable. Our future success is uncertain because we have a limited operating history and face many risks and uncertainties. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks and uncertainties, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue growth to support ongoing operations. We were formed in 1992 to research and develop P-OLED technology. We began licensing P-OLED technology to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, in 1996, and in 2002 this technology was initially commercialized. Accordingly, there is only a limited amount of past experience upon which to evaluate our business and prospects, and a potential investor should consider the challenges, expenses, delays and other difficulties involved in the development of our business, including the continued development of our P-OLED technology, refinement of processes and components for commercial products using our P-OLED technology, formation of additional commercial relationships and achievement of market acceptance for products using P-OLED technology. If our P-OLED technology is not feasible for broad-based product applications, we may never generate revenues sufficient to support ongoing operations. Before display manufacturers will agree to use our P-OLED technology for wide-scale commercial production, they will likely require us to demonstrate to their satisfaction that our P-OLED technology is feasible 15 Table of Contents for their particular product applications. This, in turn, would require additional advances in our research and development efforts, as well as those of others, for applications in a number of areas, including: • device reliability; • the development of P-OLED materials with sufficient lifetimes, brightness and color coordinates for full-color P-OLED displays in more demanding applications, such as televisions; and • issues related to scalability and cost-effective fabrication technologies for product applications. Currently, P-OLED displays are being or have been used or tested for small- to medium-sized product applications such as mobile phones, PDAs, digital cameras and camcorders (including electronic viewfinders), portable DVD players, electric shavers, MP3 players, in-car entertainment and navigation displays and other applications. P-OLED displays have not yet been commercially introduced in larger applications such as laptop computers, desktop computer monitors or televisions other than in prototypes. To date, we have not attained the service lifetimes required by the manufacturers of these more demanding larger applications. Our research and development efforts remain subject to all of the risks associated with the development of new products based on emerging and innovative technologies, including, for example, unexpected technical problems or the possible insufficiency of funds for completing development of these products. Technical problems may result in delays in the implementation of our technologies in specific applications and cause us to incur additional expenses that would increase our losses. If we cannot complete research and development of our P-OLED technology successfully, or if we experience delays in completing research and development of our P-OLED technology for use in potential commercial applications, particularly after incurring significant expenditures, our business may fail. Even if our P-OLED technology is technically feasible, it may not be adopted by display manufacturers. The potential size, timing and viability of market opportunities targeted by us through our display manufacturer licensees are uncertain at this time. Market acceptance of our P-OLED technology will depend, in part, upon this technology providing benefits comparable to or greater than those provided by cathode ray tube display and LCD technology (the current standard display technologies) at an advantageous cost to manufacturers, and the adoption of products incorporating this technology by consumers. Display manufacturers make the determination during their product development programs whether to incorporate our P-OLED technology or pursue other alternatives, and they may be forced to make significant investments of time and cost well before they introduce their products incorporating our technology to the consumer market and before they can be sure that they will generate any significant sales to recover their investment. Moreover, certain existing licensees and potential licensees of our P-OLED technology currently manufacture FPDs using competing technologies, and they may, therefore, be reluctant to redesign their products or manufacturing processes or invest in new or converted facilities to incorporate our P-OLED technology. During a display manufacturer licensee’s entire product development process, we face the risk that our technology will fail to meet our licensee’s technical, performance or cost requirements or will be replaced by a competing product or alternative technology. For example, we are aware that some of our licensees have entered into arrangements with our competitors regarding the development of competing technologies, including the potential production of OLED displays by ink jet printing using phosphorescent materials. Even if we offer technology that is satisfactory to a display manufacturer licensee, they may choose to delay or terminate their product development efforts for reasons unrelated to our technology. The occurrence of any of these events would adversely affect our royalty revenues and may make it difficult to attract additional licensees. There are alternatives to P-OLEDs for FPDs, which may limit our ability to commercialize our P-OLED technology. The FPD market is currently, and will likely continue to be for some time, dominated by displays based on LCD technology. Numerous companies have made and are continuing to make substantial investments in, and are conducting research to improve the characteristics of, LCDs. Several other FPD technologies have been, or 16 Table of Contents are being, developed, including technologies for the production of field emission, inorganic electroluminescence and gas plasma. Advances in LCD technology or any of these other technologies may overcome their current limitations and permit them to remain or become more attractive technologies for FPDs, either of which could limit the potential market for FPDs using our P-OLED technology. This, in turn, would cause display manufacturers to avoid entering into commercial relationships with us or to renegotiate, terminate or not renew their existing relationships with us, which may cause our business strategy to fail. Other OLED technologies may be more successful than ours, which may limit the commercial adoption of our P-OLED technology. Other companies have developed OLED technologies that differ from and compete with our P-OLED technology. Certain of these competing OLED technologies entered the marketplace prior to ours and may become entrenched in the flat panel industry before our P-OLED technologies have a chance to become widely adopted. Moreover, competitors may succeed in developing new OLED technologies or new manufacturing techniques that are more cost-effective or have fewer limitations than our P-OLED technology or other existing OLED technologies. If our P-OLED technology is unable to capture a substantial portion of the OLED display market, our business strategy may fail. Because we do not manufacture or sell any products to end users, we depend on the manufacturing capabilities of our display manufacturer licensees. Any difficulties or delays affecting their manufacturing processes or any decision to terminate or reduce their display manufacturing businesses could harm our business. We license our P-OLED technology to display manufacturers, who then incorporate our technology into the products that they sell. Because we do not manufacture any commercial products, our success depends on the ability and willingness of our licensees to develop, manufacture and sell commercial products integrating our technology. Any significant disruption or increase in cost of the manufacturing processes of our display manufacturer licensees or a decision by any of our display manufacturer licensees to terminate or reduce their efforts to manufacture or sell displays would adversely affect our royalty revenues and thus our business. Philips, one of our display manufacture licensees, has discontinued manufacture of monochrome P-OLED displays and has sold its P-OLED manufacturing development facility to OTB of the Netherlands. We have recognized an aggregate of $119,000 in revenues from Philips in fiscal years 2005, 2004 and 2003. Although Philips has retained its license from us to manufacture P-OLED display and lighting devices, we do not expect that Philips will pay us significant royalties in the near future. Mass production of P-OLED displays will require the availability of suitable manufacturing equipment, components and materials. Equipment is currently available for many of the required process steps, but the processes and equipment that will be required to deposit P-OLED materials for large-sized, full-color displays are still under development. High precision ink jet printing equipment that could be used to deposit P-OLED materials is being developed by some companies, but, to our knowledge, is only being made available for sale at this time by Litrex, our former subsidiary. The availability of suitable ink jet printing equipment will be contingent on the continued technical success of and sufficient funding for Litrex’s or another manufacturer’s development program. In addition, certain of the components, such as low temperature poly silicon backplanes, used in the production of our licensees’ display products are available only from a limited number of suppliers. If display manufacturers are unable to obtain ink jet printing or other suitable P-OLED deposition equipment or are unable to source other key equipment for the manufacture of large panel sizes or, if they experience unexpected difficulties, expenses or delays with respect to additional required technologies, components or other materials, they may experience increased costs or manufacturing delays and may not be able to manufacture larger-sized, full-color P-OLED displays or may exit the display manufacturing business entirely. This would adversely affect our license fees or royalty payments from them, and we may not be able to increase our revenues and achieve profitability. 17 Table of Contents We expect to derive an increasing portion of our revenues from royalties on sales of products commercialized by our licensees that incorporate our technology. Our display manufacturer licensees operate in a highly competitive environment, and they may not be able to achieve and sustain market position. If they fail to compete successfully, our royalties will decrease or be eliminated. Because we do not sell any products directly to end-users, our success depends upon the ability and continuing willingness of our display manufacturer licensees to market commercial products integrating our technology and the widespread acceptance of those products. Any slowdown in the demand for our licensees’ products would adversely affect our royalty revenues and thus our business. The markets for our display manufacturer licensees’ products are highly competitive, with pressure on prices and profit margins due largely to additional and growing capacity from FPD industry competitors. The principal elements affecting our licensees’ competitive performance in the market for end-user products include their abilities to: • access required capital; • conduct research and development; • reduce time-to-market; • reduce production costs; • offer a competitive price; • offer attractive product features and quality; • offer customer service, including product design support; and • provide sufficient quantity of products to fulfill end-user demand. Success in the market for end-user products that may integrate our P-OLED technology also depends on factors beyond the control of our licensees and us, including the cyclical and seasonal nature of the end-user markets that our licensees serve, as well as industry and general economic conditions. If our licensees fail or otherwise reduce their efforts to commercialize products that incorporate our technology or exit the display manufacturing business entirely, our business strategy may fail. Many of our competitors have greater resources, which may make it difficult for us to compete successfully against them. The FPD industry is characterized by intense competition. Many of our LCD and OLED competitors have better name recognition and greater financial and personnel resources and technical, marketing and research capabilities than us, and because of these differences, we may never be able to compete successfully in the FPD market. LCD is currently the dominant technology in the FPD market. Many of the leading LCD panel manufacturers, such as AU Optronics, Chunghwa Picture Tubes, LG.Philips, Samsung Electronics and Sharp, are large, established companies with global marketing capabilities, widespread brand recognition and extensive financial resources. Eastman Kodak Company is our principal competitor in the OLED industry, with several licensees already in commercial production of displays incorporating its passive matrix small molecule OLED, or SMOLED, technology. The leading LCD panel manufacturers, who use competing technologies but are also potential licensees of our P-OLED technology, are considerably larger and more established companies, and they have global marketing capabilities and substantially greater financial resources to devote to research and development than we have. If our technology does not compete effectively with these and other display technologies, our business strategy may fail. 18 Table of Contents If our materials supplier licensees fail to make advances in their research, or if they exit that business or otherwise terminate or elect not to renew their relationships with us, we might not succeed in commercializing our P-OLED technology. Research and development of commercially viable applications for our P-OLED technology depends substantially on the success of work relating to P-OLED materials, including resolution of issues relating to materials lifetimes and efficiencies at the brightness levels required for large panel applications. We cannot be certain that we or our materials supplier licensees will make sufficient additional advances in the research and development of P-OLED materials to satisfy these requirements. Moreover, if our materials supplier licensees are unable to meet the requirements of our display manufacturer licensees, or if they exit the P-OLED materials supply business or otherwise terminate or elect not to renew their relationships with us and no viable successor can be found, our business strategy may fail. If we cannot form and maintain lasting business relationships with P-OLED display manufacturers, our business strategy will fail. Our business strategy depends upon our development and maintenance of commercial licensing relationships with high-volume manufacturers of P-OLED displays. As at December 31, 2005, we had entered into nine licenses with display manufacturers, and we have seven other relationships with manufacturers that are limited to technology development and the evaluation of our P-OLED technology for possible use in commercial production. Any of these relationships may fail to result in the display manufacturers entering into a licensing arrangement or, subsequently, commercial production, as applicable, of devices using our P-OLED technology on a scale sufficient for our business strategy to succeed. Moreover, if a licensee is no longer using our technology, it can generally terminate the license agreement upon notice and without further payment to us. Under our existing technology development and evaluation agreements, we are working with display manufacturers to incorporate our technology into their products for the commercial production of P-OLED displays. However, these technology development and evaluation agreements typically last for limited periods of time, and these relationships may never lead to development of products and entry into license agreements. Currently, and for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues are and will be derived from a concentrated number of licensees. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, ten, five and four customers accounted for, respectively, 74%, 66% and 67% of our revenues. Furthermore, in 2003, 2004 and 2005, two, four and four customers accounted individually for more than 10% of our revenues. Our future success will depend upon our ability to establish and maintain relationships with key licensees and to attract new licensees. If our royalty revenues continue to be derived from a few licensee relationships, our operating results will be harmed if those licensees experience operating difficulties or curtail or terminate their use of our licensed technology, and we are not able to obtain replacement royalty sources. Replacement royalty sources may be difficult to obtain because of the lengthy periods required to attract and sign-up new licensees and have them enter commercial production. Our ability to enter into additional commercial licenses, or to maintain our existing technology development and evaluation relationships, may require us to make financial or other commitments. We might not be able, for financial or other reasons, to enter into or continue these relationships on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Failure to do so would cause our business strategy to fail. Conflicts may arise with our licensees or joint development partners, resulting in renegotiation or termination of, or litigation related to, our agreements with them. This would adversely affect our revenues. Conflicts could arise between us and our licensees or joint development partners as to royalty rates, milestone payments or other commercial terms. Similarly, the parties may disagree as to which party owns or has the right to commercialize intellectual property that is developed during the course of the relationship or as to other non-commercial terms. If such a conflict were to arise, a licensee or joint development partner might 19 Table of Contents attempt to compel renegotiation of certain terms of their agreement or terminate their agreement entirely, and we might lose the royalty revenues and other benefits of the agreement. Either we or the licensee or joint development partner might initiate litigation to determine commercial obligations, establish intellectual property rights or resolve other disputes under the related agreements. Such litigation could be costly to us and require substantial attention of management. If we were unsuccessful in such litigation, we could lose the commercial benefits of the agreement, be liable for other financial damages and suffer losses of intellectual property or other rights that are the subject of dispute. Any of these adverse outcomes could cause our business strategy to fail. Some of our licenses contain “most favored nation” provisions. These provisions give licensees the right to reduced royalty rates or refunds of upfront fees in the event that we issue new licenses that have more favorable upfront fee or royalty rates than the existing licenses that contain these “most favored nation” provisions, but are otherwise similar in their terms. If we do not receive additional financing in the future, we might not be able to continue the research, development and commercialization of our P-OLED technology. Our capital requirements have been, and will continue to be, significant. Substantial additional funds will be required in the future to maintain current levels of expenditure for research, development and commercialization of our P-OLED and related technologies, to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property, or IP, rights in these technologies, as well as for working capital and other purposes, the timing and amount of which are difficult to forecast. Our total research and development expenditures were $16.1 million in 2005, $14.2 million in 2004 and $16.8 million in 2003. If we do not achieve our revenue goals, our cash on hand may not be sufficient to meet all of our future needs. When we need additional funds, such funds may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain more money when needed, we might be forced to cut back our current activities and our business might fail. In July 2004, we secured a line of credit in a maximum amount of $15.0 million, of which $0.5 million may not be borrowed, available for one year and extendible for up to two additional years to meet our short term capital requirements. There are financial costs associated with maintaining and accessing this facility. In addition, any borrowing under this facility is secured by a letter of credit issued by Wells Fargo Bank, the reimbursement obligations of which are secured by our IP portfolio and results in the imposition of certain financial and operating restrictions by the lender. We renewed this line of credit for an additional one year in July 2005 and it is renewable for a further year. We are negotiating more favorable terms for this facility and expect to extend this facility, but, if these negotiations are not concluded to our satisfaction, we may terminate this facility. In December 2005, we sold 2,187,500 shares of our common stock in a private placement for which the gross proceeds were $17.5 million. At December 31, 2005, our cash balance was $31.3 million which will be sufficient to meet our needs for at least another twelve months. We have sold Litrex Corporation, or Litrex, to Ulvac, Inc. of Japan, or Ulvac. Under the terms of this agreement, Ulvac is obligated to continue to support Litrex’s development of ink jet printers for the display manufacturer industry. If it does not fulfill this obligation, we may exercise our rights under a fallback license to obtain the necessary IP to develop, manufacture and supply ink jet printing equipment for use by manufacturers using our P-OLED technology independent of Litrex. In any such circumstance, we may incur substantial additional costs in order to ensure that ink jet printing equipment is made available for P-OLED display manufacturers. We have the right, but no obligation, to fund ink jet printing development programs at Litrex and may incur costs in doing so if we believe this is necessary for the furtherance of our P-OLED technology. If we are unable to meet our currently projected liquidity requirements from our existing resources, we may need to borrow money or issue additional equity or debt securities. We may not be able to borrow money on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we attempt to raise money in an offering of shares of our common stock, preferred stock, warrants or debt securities, or if we engage in acquisitions involving the issuance of such securities, our then-existing stockholders may be diluted. If we are unable to obtain required financing or reasonable terms, our business may fail. 20 Table of Contents We or our licensees may incur substantial costs or lose important rights as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to our patent and other intellectual property rights. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other IP rights in many technology-related industries, including our own. Until recently, many patent applications were retained in secrecy by the United States Patent Office until and unless a patent issued. As a result, there may be United States patent applications pending that may be infringed by the use of our technology or a part thereof, thus substantially interfering with the future conduct of our or our licensees’ business. In addition, there may be issued patents in the United States or other countries that are pertinent to our or our licensees’ business of which we are not aware. Our licensees could be sued by other parties for patent infringement in the future. Such lawsuits could subject them to liability for damages or require our licensees to obtain additional licenses that could increase the cost of their products, which might have an adverse affect on their sales and thus our royalties or cause them to seek to renegotiate our royalty rates. In addition, in the future we may assert our IP rights by instituting legal proceedings against others. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in enforcing our patents in any lawsuits we may commence. Defendants in any litigation we may commence to enforce our patents may attempt to establish that our patents are invalid or are unenforceable. Thus, any patent litigation we commence could lead to a determination that one or more of our patents are invalid or unenforceable. If a third party succeeds in invalidating one or more of our patents, that party and others could compete more effectively against us. Our ability to derive licensing revenues from products or technologies covered by these patents could also be adversely affected. Whether our licensees are defending the assertion of third-party IP rights against their businesses arising as a result of the use of our technology, or we are asserting our own IP rights against others, such litigation can be complex, costly, protracted and highly disruptive to our or our licensees’ business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. As a result, the pendency or adverse outcome of any IP litigation to which we or our licensees are subject could disrupt business operations, require the incurrence of substantial costs and subject us or our licensees to significant liabilities, each of which could severely harm our business. Plaintiffs in IP cases often seek injunctive relief. Any IP litigation commenced against our licensees could force them to take actions that could be harmful to their business and thus to our royalties, including the following: • stop selling their products that incorporate or otherwise use technology that contains our allegedly infringing IP; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant third-party IP, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or • attempt to redesign their products to remove our allegedly infringing IP to avoid infringement of the third-party IP. If our licensees are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, they may be unable to manufacture and sell their products that incorporate our technology at a profit or at all. Furthermore, the measure of damages in IP litigation can be complex and is often subjective or uncertain. If our licensees were to be found liable for infringement of proprietary rights of a third party, the amount of damages they might have to pay could be substantial and is difficult to predict. Decreased sales of our licensees’ products incorporating our technology would adversely affect our royalty revenues under existing licenses. Any necessity to procure rights to the third-party technology might cause our existing licensees to renegotiate the royalty terms of their license with us to compensate for this increase in their cost of production or, in certain cases, to terminate their license with us entirely. Were this renegotiation to occur, certain of our license agreements that contain “most favored nation” provisions, requiring that we offer at least as favorable terms to the holder of such a license as we offer to any other licensee, would be affected and we would also receive reduced royalties from those licenses. These 21 Table of Contents developments would also harm our ability to compete for new licensees and would adversely affect the terms of the royalty arrangements we could enter into with any new licensees. As is commonplace in technology companies, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other technology companies. To the extent our employees are involved in research areas that are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees or we have, inadvertently or otherwise, used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. The costs associated with these actions or the loss of rights critical to our or our licensees’ business could negatively impact our revenues or cause our business to fail. If we cannot obtain and maintain appropriate patent and other intellectual property rights protection for our P-OLED technology, our business will suffer. The value to us of our P-OLED and related technologies is dependent on our ability to secure and maintain appropriate patent and other IP rights protection. Although we own or license many patents covering our technology that have already been issued, there can be no assurance that additional patents applied for will be obtained or that any of these patents, once issued, will afford commercially significant protection for our technology or will be found valid if challenged. Moreover, we have not obtained patent protection for some of our technology in all foreign countries in which P-OLED displays or materials might be manufactured or sold. In any event, the patent laws and enforcement regimes of other countries may differ from those of the United States as to the patentability of our P-OLED and related technologies and the degree of protection afforded. The strength of our current IP position results primarily from the essential nature of our fundamental patents covering the P-OLED device and its manufacturing process and electroluminescent devices containing conjugated polymers. These patents expire in 2010, 2011 and 2015. While we hold a wide range of additional patents and patent applications whose expiration dates extend (and in the case of patent applications, will extend) well beyond 2015, many of which are also of key importance in the OLED industry, none is of an equally essential nature as our fundamental patents, and therefore our competitive position after their expiration may be less certain. We may become engaged in litigation to protect or enforce our patent and other IP rights or in International Trade Commission proceedings to abate the importation of goods that would compete unfairly with those of our licensees. In addition, we may have to participate in interference or reexamination proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark office, or in opposition, nullity or other proceedings before foreign patent offices, with respect to our patents or patent applications. All of these actions would place our patents and other IP rights at risk and may result in substantial costs to us as well as a diversion of management attention. Moreover, if successful, these actions could result in the loss of patent or other IP rights protection for the key P-OLED and related technologies on which our business strategy depends. In addition, we rely in part on unpatented proprietary technology, and others may independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, financial advisors and strategic partners to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not ultimately provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of those trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. In particular, we may not be able to fully or adequately protect our proprietary information as we conduct discussions with potential strategic partners. If we are unable to protect the proprietary nature of our technology, it will harm our business. We are exposed to currency fluctuations, which may have an adverse effect on us. A substantial majority of our licensing revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars. These licensing revenues include royalties based on revenues or production costs of our licensees that may be denominated in U.S. dollars or other currencies. Where such revenues or production costs of our licensees are denominated in other 22 Table of Contents currencies, they are converted to U.S. dollars for the purpose of calculating any licensing royalties due to us. Our licensing royalty revenues may decrease as a result of any appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these other currencies. The majority of our current expenditures are incurred in British pounds in order to fund our operations in the United Kingdom. If the U.S. dollar depreciates versus the British pound, additional U.S. dollars will be required to fund our operations in the United Kingdom. We take out forward currency contracts to cover future projected currency conversions. We engage in hedging activities, but there is no guarantee that they will be successful in reducing the risks to us of our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and these fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We are a holding company with no significant independent operations, and we therefore rely on our subsidiaries to make funds available to us. We are a holding company with no significant independent operations and no significant assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We, therefore, will be dependent upon the receipt of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries. The declaration of dividends by our subsidiaries will be subject to the discretion of their boards of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including their results of operations, financial condition, liquidity requirements and indebtedness and restrictions imposed by applicable law. Our inability to receive funds from our operating subsidiaries would adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations and to make dividend payments and other distributions, if any, to holders of our common stock. Due to our significant level of international operations, we are subject to international operational, financial, legal and political risks that may negatively impact our operations. A substantial part of our operations are in the United Kingdom, and many of our licensees have a majority of their operations in countries other than the United States. Risks associated with our doing business outside of the United States include: • compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, particularly labor, environmental and other laws and regulations that govern our operations in the United Kingdom; • legal uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; • economic instability in the countries of our licensees, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region, causing delays or reductions in orders for their products and therefore our royalties; • political instability in the countries in which our licensees operate, particularly in South Korea relating to its disputes with North Korea and in Taiwan relating to its disputes with China; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer accounts receivable payment cycles; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these factors could harm our or our licensees’ existing international operations and business and impair our or our licensees’ ability to continue expanding into international markets. A significant portion of our assets, certain of our directors and most of our executive officers are located outside of and are not residents of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to effect service of process upon such non-resident directors or officers within the United States or to realize against them in the United States upon judgment of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities or blue sky laws of any state or other jurisdiction within the United States. In addition, courts of another country may not enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against us, our directors or officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or the securities or blue sky laws of any state or other jurisdiction within the United States or enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us, our directors or our officers predicated upon the United States federal securities laws or any state securities or blue sky laws. 23 Table of Contents Our agreements with our licensees and joint development partners are subject to regulation by the European Commission, and particularly to antitrust provisions of such regulations, which could result in fines to us or in those agreements being declared void in whole or in part, either of which would negatively impact our revenues. Our IP licensing agreements and joint development agreements fall under the antitrust provisions of the Treaty of Rome and related regulations. While our display license agreements are generally non-exclusive and without geographic restriction, and while our licensing and joint development relationships generally represent lower market shares than would result in the application of the regulations’ remedies, any violation of the regulations could result in the anti-competitive provisions or the entire relevant agreement being declared void and unenforceable. In addition, we could be subject to a fine of up to 10% of the income of our worldwide group. If we cannot keep our key employees or hire other talented persons as we grow, our business might not succeed. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services of senior management, particularly our Chief Executive Officer, who has been principally responsible for establishing and maintaining many of our most important commercial relationships, and our Chief Technology Officer, who was one of the inventors of our fundamental P-OLED technology and helps direct our technology development program, and on our ability to offer competitive salaries and benefits to our employees. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our senior management or other key personnel. If we lose the services of key senior management personnel, we may not be able to find suitable replacements in a timely manner or at all, which would seriously harm our business. Additionally, competition for highly skilled technical, managerial and other personnel is intense. We might not be able to attract, hire, train, retain and motivate the highly skilled managers and employees that we might need to be successful. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel, our business will suffer and might fail. We currently have fewer than 130 employees, and we may encounter increasing difficulty in attracting enough qualified personnel as our operations expand and the demand for their services increases. This difficulty could impede the attainment of our research and development objectives and cause our business strategy to fail. Our Technology Development Center and our research and development laboratories are critical to our success. Our Technology Development Center in Godmanchester, England and our research and development laboratories are critical to our success. These facilities currently house our principal research, development, engineering and design operations. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of a small amount of hazardous substances as well as other potentially harmful materials, waste and chemicals, which could cause interruption of our research and development efforts or injury to our employees, resulting in liabilities under federal, state, local or foreign laws or regulations governing the use, storage and disposal of these materials. While to date we have not had any issues relating to the use of hazardous materials, any event that causes a disruption of the operation of these facilities for even a relatively short period of time would adversely affect our ability to conduct research and development operations and to provide technical support for our licensees, which would negatively affect our revenues. If we acquire or invest in any companies or technologies or enter into joint ventures in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We intend to expand our business primarily through internal growth, but from time to time we may consider strategic acquisitions or other investments, as well as joint ventures, to develop P-OLED materials and displays. Any future acquisition, investment or joint venture would involve numerous risks, including: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • difficulty integrating the operations and products of the acquired business; • unexpected expenses related to technology integration; 24 Table of Contents • exposure to unknown liabilities, including litigation against the companies we may acquire or in which we invest or the joint ventures we form; • future losses or failure of the acquired business resulting in the impairment of the carrying value of any investment; • additional costs due to differences in culture, geographic locations and duplication of key talent; and • potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company. In addition, the failure to complete any such acquisition, investment or joint venture after it has been announced and negotiations commenced may have an adverse effect on our business, including the diversion of our management’s time and attention, the negative impact on our business prospects or a decline in the market price for shares of our common stock. We have made investments in Add-Vision, which had a carrying value at December 31 2005 of $1.1 million, and MicroEmissive Displays, or MED, which is a publicly quoted company in the UK and which, at December 31, 2005, had a fair market value of $0.6 million. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with any acquisitions or other investments. For example, in June 2005, MED issued a trading statement to the London Stock Exchange in which it reported poor yield in its manufacturing process and a delay in commercialization of its products. Although MED did commence shipment of commercial products in December 2005, if MED is not successful in achieving its business objectives the value of their stock may fall and we might have to write down the value of our investment. In November 2005, we and Sumitomo Chemical entered into a joint venture agreement, which provides for the organization and capitalization of Sumation Company Limited, or Sumation, to develop and supply advanced P-OLED materials and formulated inks for use in commercial P-OLED displays and lighting applications. Each party to the joint venture agreement has contributed initial working capital to Sumation in exchange for a 50% voting and ownership interest, with an initial two-year budget and any additional funds to be funded equally by each party. To the extent that Sumation does not achieve its expected sales revenues or margins, we may need to provide 50% of any additional working capital funding requirements, although we will be under no formal obligation to do so. The joint venture agreement includes provisions for the sale of part or all of our equity stake to Sumitomo at fair market value after a minimum of five years. After the initial two-year period of the joint venture, the parties have agreed to engage in good faith discussions regarding the third and subsequent years. The joint venture agreement may be terminated by either party by mutual written agreement, or by one of the parties in the case of a material breach of the other party. It may also be terminated in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of either party, or if a 40% interest is acquired in one party by a direct and substantial competitor of the other joint venture party. The agreement will also terminate if Sumitomo acquires 100% of the shares in Sumation. Although we already had a strong research relationship with Sumitomo, we believe that the strengthening of our relationship through the formation of this joint venture is the most effective way of accelerating P-OLED material development in the future. There can be no assurance, however, that the joint venture will not be terminated or our interest in Sumation will not be acquired or that we will be successful in addressing the risks described above or any other problems encountered in connection with our joint venture, whether as a result of potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction or duplication of management and other key talent or additional and unexpected costs and expenses related to technology integration or that could result from cultural differences or as a result of the geographic location of the joint venture in Japan. Risks Relating to our Financial Results Our operating results may have significant period-to-period fluctuations, which would make it difficult to predict our future performance. Due to the current stage of commercialization of our technology and the significant development and manufacturing objectives that we and our licensees must achieve to be successful, our quarterly operating results will be difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. 25 Table of Contents We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a reliable indicator of our future performance at this time. Among other factors affecting our period-to-period results, our license fees often consist of large one-time payments in the period during which we enter into a new license, followed by smaller recurring payments in later periods, resulting in significant fluctuations in our revenues. If, in some future period, our operating results or business outlook fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price would be likely to decline and investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which they were purchased. Broad market, industry and global economic factors may also materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile, as has been the case with the securities of many other emerging growth companies. Factors such as the following may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock in the future: • our operating results and capital resources; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological developments, new product applications or license arrangements; and • other factors affecting the FPD and related industries in general. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies like us. A few stockholders own significant amounts of our common stock. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it will prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. Affiliates of Kelso & Company, or Kelso, and affiliates of Hillman Capital Corporation, or Hillman Capital, beneficially own, respectively, approximately 40% and 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Kelso is also represented on our board. As a result, Kelso and Hillman Capital exercise significant control over matters requiring stockholder approval. The concentrated holdings of Kelso and Hillman Capital may result in the delay or deterrence of possible changes in control of our company, which may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. The interests of these and other of our existing stockholders may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the operation and growth of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of December 31, 2005, there were 21,483,205 shares of our common stock outstanding. In addition, we may in the future issue additional shares of our common stock that might be or become freely transferable, including shares that may be issued under additional registration statements that we may file, such as our proposed shelf registration statement described below, upon the exercise of warrants or options or pursuant to our special bonus 26 Table of Contents or other plans. As of December 31, 2005, there were 659,468 shares of our common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants. Of the shares outstanding, 2,553,929 shares, including 2,500,000 which were sold in the initial public offering of our stock in December 2004, are currently freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, and 2,187,500 shares which were sold in our private placement in December 2005 are currently freely transferable under our effective shelf registration statement, which also covers up to 656,250 shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants that were also sold in that placement. In addition, 2,327,260 shares are currently freely tradeable pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act of 1933 and the remaining shares are currently eligible for resale under Rule 144, subject to the volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. As described under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 below, our board of directors recently authorized the registration of approximately 6.5 million shares of our common stock under a “shelf” registration statement on Form S-3, which we expect to file with the SEC by the end of April 2006 and to cover up to approximately 3.9 million shares that may be issued and sold by us and up to approximately 2.6 million outstanding shares that may be sold by certain selling stockholders, including some of our affiliates. In addition, as of March 9, 2006, we have 1,200,000 shares issuable pursuant to restricted stock units awarded under our special bonus plan, 936,090 shares issuable upon the exercise of outstanding stock options and up to 650,827 shares reserved for future grant under our stock incentive plan. Kelso and Hillman Capital, which together with their affiliates own an aggregate of approximately 60% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, each have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the unregistered shares that they currently hold or may acquire or to include these shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders, including in connection with our proposed shelf registration statement described above. Sales by these stockholders of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. The price of our common stock can be expected to decrease if we issue additional shares of our common stock that might be or become freely salable, including shares that may be issued under additional registration statements that we may file, such as our proposed shelf registration described above, upon the exercise of warrants or options or pursuant to our special bonus or other plans. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect your rights as a shareholder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 46,667 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of stockholders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the stockholders of our common stock; • make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium; • limit or eliminate any payments that the stockholders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may issue additional shares of authorized preferred stock at any time in the future. 27 Table of Contents We are incurring increased costs as a result of being a public company. We are facing increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq National Market, require changes in the corporate governance practices of public companies. These new rules and regulations are resulting in both a significant initial cost, as we initiate certain internal controls and other procedures designed to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and in an ongoing increase in our legal, audit and financial compliance costs, which is diverting management attention from operations and strategic opportunities and to making legal, accounting and administrative activities more time-consuming and costly. We are incurring substantially higher costs to maintain directors and officers insurance. We are currently experiencing increased annual costs following our initial public offering in December 2004 and we expect to continue to incur additional costs in future years in implementing and verifying internal control procedures as required by section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules and regulations thereunder, and in connection with preparing our financial statements on a timely basis to meet the SEC’s requirements. In addition, we are required under these new rules and regulations to retain independent directors to serve on our board of directors. If vacancies on our board of directors occur that need to be filled by independent directors, we may encounter difficulty in attracting qualified persons to serve on our board, and, in particular, our audit committee. If we fail to attract and retain the required number of independent directors we may be subject to SEC enforcement proceedings and delisting by the Nasdaq National Market. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. ITEM 1B. Staff Comments Not applicable. 