ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary and Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical or current facts, including statements about our expectations, anticipated financial results and future business prospects, are forward-looking statements. You can identify these statements by our use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "should," "plan," "anticipate" and other similar expressions. You can find examples of these statements throughout this report, including "Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this Form 10-K. We cannot guarantee that our actual results will be consistent with the forward-looking statements we make in this report. We have listed below some of the inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we project. We do not assume an obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Intense competition in our markets could harm our ability to maintain profitability. Domestic and international office products markets are highly and increasingly competitive. Customers have many options when purchasing office supplies and paper, print and document services, technology products and solutions and office furniture. We compete with worldwide contract stationers, office supply superstores, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs, computer and electronics superstores, Internet merchandisers, direct-mail distributors, discount retailers, drugstores, supermarkets and thousands of local and regional contract stationers. In addition, an increasing number of manufacturers of computer hardware, software and peripherals, including some of our suppliers, have expanded their own direct marketing efforts. The other large office supply superstores have increased their presence in close proximity to our stores in recent years and are expected to continue to do so in the future. In addition, many of our competitors have expanded their office products assortment, and we expect they will continue to do so. In recent years, two package delivery companies have established retail stores that compete directly with us for copy, printing, packaging and shipping business, and offer a limited assortment of office products and services similar to the ones we offer. We anticipate increasing competition from our two domestic office supply superstore competitors and various other competitors, including the two package delivery companies, for print-for-pay and related services. Print-for-pay and related services have historically been a key point of difference for OfficeMax stores and are expected to become an increasingly more important part of our future strategies. Any or all of our competitors may become even more aggressive in the future. Increased competition in the office products markets, together with increased advertising, has heightened price awareness among end-users. Such heightened price awareness has led to margin pressure on office products and impacted the results of both our Retail and Contract segments. In addition to price, competition is also based on customer service, the quality and breadth of product selection, and convenient locations. Some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources, which affords them greater purchasing power, increased financial flexibility and more capital resources for expansion and improvement, which may enable them to compete more effectively than we can. We may be unable to open and remodel stores successfully. Our business plans include the opening and remodeling of a significant number of retail stores. For these plans to be successful, we must identify and lease favorable store sites, develop remodeling plans, hire and train associates and adapt management and systems to meet the needs of these operations. These 5 tasks are difficult to manage successfully. If we are not able to open and remodel stores as quickly as we have planned, our future financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. Further, we cannot ensure that the new or remodeled stores will achieve the sales or profit levels that we anticipate. This is particularly true as we introduce different store designs, formats and sizes or enter into new market areas. In particular, the "Advantage" prototype store format we intend to utilize for new and remodeled stores was new in 2006 and there can be no assurance as to whether or to what extent that format will be successful. Economic conditions directly influence our operating results. Economic conditions, both domestically and abroad, directly influence our operating results. Current and future economic conditions, including the level of unemployment, energy costs, availability of credit, and the financial condition and growth prospects of our customers may adversely affect our business and the results of our operations. Our expanding international operations expose us to the unique risks inherent in foreign operations. During 2007, we expanded our operations in international markets, and we may also seek to expand further into other international markets. Our foreign operations encounter risks similar to those faced by our U.S. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign operations, such as local customs and regulatory constraints, foreign trade policies, competitive conditions, foreign currency fluctuations and unstable political and economic conditions. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuation. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Factors that may contribute to these quarter-to-quarter fluctuations could include the effects of seasonality, our level of advertising and marketing, new store openings, changes in product mix and competitors' pricing. These quarterly fluctuations could have an adverse effect on both our operating results and the price of our common stock. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified associates. We attempt to attract and retain an appropriate level of personnel in both field operations and corporate functions. As a retailer, we face the challenge of filling many positions at lower wage scales which are appropriate for our industry and in light of competitive factors. As a result, we face many external risks and internal factors in meeting our labor needs, including competition for qualified personnel, overall unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, as well as rising employee benefit costs, including insurance costs and compensation programs. Changes in any of these factors, including especially a shortage of available workforce in the areas in which we operate, could interfere with our ability to adequately provide services to customers and result in increasing our labor costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. Our expanded offering of proprietary branded products may not improve our financial performance and may expose us to product liability claims. Our product offering includes many proprietary branded products. While we have focused on the quality of our proprietary branded products, we rely on third-party manufacturers for these products. Such third party manufacturers may prove to be unreliable, or the quality of our globally sourced products may not meet our expectations. Furthermore, economic and political conditions in areas of the world where we source such products may adversely affect the availability and cost of such products. In addition, our proprietary branded products compete with other manufacturers' branded items that we offer. As we continue to increase the number and types of proprietary branded products that we sell, we may adversely affect our relationships with our vendors, who may decide to reduce their product offerings through OfficeMax and increase their product offerings through our competitors. Finally, if any of our customers are harmed by our proprietary branded products, they may bring product liability and other claims against us. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. 6 We are more leveraged than some of our competitors, which could adversely affect our business plans. A relatively greater portion of our cash flow is used to service debt and other financial obligations including leases. This reduces the funds we have available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, new stores, store remodels and other purposes. Similarly, our relatively greater leverage increases our vulnerability to, and limits our flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions and creates other competitive disadvantages compared with other companies with relatively less leverage. Fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are a multi-national, multi-channel provider of office products and services. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our effective tax rate may be lower or higher than our tax rates have been in the past due to numerous factors, including the sources of our income, any agreements we may have with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions, and the tax filing positions we take in various jurisdictions. We base our estimate of an effective tax rate at any given point in time upon a calculated mix of the tax rates applicable to our company and to estimates of the amount of business likely to be done in any given jurisdiction. The loss of one or more agreements with taxing jurisdictions, a change in the mix of our business from year to year and from country to country, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, changes in tax laws in any of the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate or adverse outcomes from tax audits that we may be subject to in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our effective tax rate, which change could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. Compromises of our information security may adversely affect our business. Through our sales and marketing activities, we collect and store certain personal information that our customers provide to purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on our website, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. We also gather and retain information about our associates in the normal course of business. We may share information about such persons with vendors that assist with certain aspects of our business. Despite instituted safeguards for the protection of such information, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our or our vendors' network security and, if successful, misappropriate confidential customer or business information. In addition, a Company employee, contractor or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Loss of customer or business information could disrupt our operations and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot ensure new systems and technology will be implemented successfully. Our acquisition of OfficeMax, Inc., in December 2003, required the integration and coordination of our existing contract stationer systems with the retail systems of the acquired company. Integrating and coordinating these systems has been complex and still requires a number of system enhancements and conversions that, if not done properly, could divert the attention of our workforce during development and implementation and constrain for some time our ability to provide the level of service our customers demand. Also, when implemented, the systems and technology enhancements may not provide the benefits anticipated and could add costs and complications to our ongoing operations. A failure to effectively implement changes to these systems or to realize the intended efficiencies could have an adverse effect on our business and results of our operations. 7 We retained responsibility for certain liabilities of the sold paper, forest products and timberland businesses. These obligations include liabilities related to environmental, health and safety, tax, litigation and employee benefit matters. Some of these retained liabilities could turn out to be significant, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our exposure to these liabilities could harm our ability to compete with other office products distributors, who would not typically be subject to similar liabilities. Our business may be adversely affected by the actions of and risks associated with our third-party vendors. We are a reseller of other manufacturer's branded items and are therefore dependent on the availability and pricing of key products including ink, toner, paper and technology products. As a reseller, we cannot control the supply, design, function or cost of many of the products we offer for sale. Disruptions in the availability of these products may adversely affect our sales and result in customer dissatisfaction. Further, we cannot control the cost of manufacturer's products and cost increases must either be passed along to our customers or will result in erosion of our earnings. Failure to identify desirable products and make them available to our customers when desired and at attractive prices could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our investment in Boise Cascade, L.L.C. subjects us to the risks associated with the paper and forest products industry. When we sold our paper, forest products and timberland assets, we purchased an equity interest in affiliates of Boise Cascade, L.L.C. In addition, we have an ongoing obligation to purchase paper from an affiliate of Boise Cascade, L.L.C. These continuing interests subject us to market risks associated with the paper and forest products industry. These industries are subject to cyclical market pressures. Historical prices for products have been volatile, and industry participants have limited influence over the timing and extent of price changes. The relationship between supply and demand in these industries significantly affects product pricing. Demand for building products is driven mainly by factors such as new construction and remodeling rates, interest rates and weather. The supply of paper and building products fluctuates based on manufacturing capacity, and excess capacity, both domestically and abroad, can result in significant variations in product prices. The level of supply and demand for forest products will affect the price we pay for paper. Our ability to realize the carrying value of our equity interest in affiliates of Boise Cascade, L.L.C. is dependent upon many factors, including the operating performance of Boise Cascade, L.L.C. and other market factors that may not be specific to Boise Cascade, L.L.C., due in part to the fact that there is not a liquid market for our equity interest. Our exposure to these risks could decrease our ability to compete effectively with our competitors, who typically are not subject to such risks. We have substantial business operations in states in which the regulatory environment is particularly challenging. Our operations in California and other similar states expose us to many regulations relating to the conduct of our business, including, without limitation, consumer protection laws, advertising regulations, and employment and wage and hour regulations. This regulatory environment requires the Company to maintain a heightened compliance effort and exposes us to defense costs, possible fines and penalties, and liability to private parties for monetary recoveries and attorneys' fees, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 8 