Item 1A. Risk Factors We may not be able to achieve sufficient growth in our retail franchise to allow us to achieve the anticipated benefits of our merger with Frankfort First Bancorp. We intend to efficiently utilize excess liquidity at either Bank or Kentucky First by buying and selling whole loans or participations in loans between First Federal of Hazard and First Federal of Frankfort, with the originating bank retaining servicing of any loans sold, or by making deposits into accounts at either bank, subject to regulatory limitations, in order to maximize the potential earnings of each bank. This strategy will not succeed if we do not maintain sufficient loan demand at First Federal of Frankfort or sufficient deposit growth and retention at First Federal of Hazard. At June 30, 2010, Frankfort First had total real estate loans of $105.6 million, compared to $98.5 million at June 30, 2009, an increase of approximately $7.1 million, or 7.2%. Loans sold by First Federal of Frankfort to First Federal of Hazard were $53.2 million and $62.2 million at June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. At June 30, 2010, First Federal of Hazard had total deposits of $77.2 million, compared to total deposits of $77.7 million at June 30, 2009, a decrease of $500,000, or 0.6%. There can be no assurance as to if or when this strategy can be accomplished. In an attempt to increase the overall interest rate spread of the combined company, management may adopt strategies that result in decreases in the assets and/or liabilities of either or both Banks. Rising interest rates may hurt our profits and asset values. If interest rates rise, our net interest income would likely decline in the short term since, due to the generally shorter terms of interest-bearing liabilities, interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, increases more quickly than interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments. In addition, a continuation of rising interest rates may hurt our income because of reduced demand for new loans, the demand for refinancing loans and the interest and fee income earned on new loans and refinancings. At June 30, 2010, in the event of an instantaneous and permanent 200 basis point increase in interest rates, our net portfolio value, which represents the discounted present value of the difference between incoming cash flows on interest-earning and other assets and outgoing cash flows on interest-bearing liabilities, would be expected to increase by approximately 2%. While we believe that modest interest rate increases will not significantly hurt our interest rate spread over the long term due to our high level of liquidity and the presence of a significant amount of adjustable-rate mortgage loans in our loan portfolio, interest rate increases may initially reduce our interest rate spread until such time as our loans and investments reprice to higher levels. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as separate components of equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates therefore could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. 17 Future FDIC assessments will hurt our earnings. FDIC insurance assessments increased significantly during the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010, and we expect to pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. See “Insurance of Deposit Accounts.” Higher recurring premiums assessed by the FDIC and any additional emergency special assessments imposed by the FDIC will further hurt the Company's earnings. A larger percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate and further disruptions in the real estate market may result in losses and hurt our earnings. Approximately 96.1% of our loan portfolio at June 30, 2010 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. The declining economic conditions have caused a decrease in demand for real estate, which has resulted in an erosion of some real estate values in our markets. Further disruptions in the real estate market could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline further, it will become more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values, we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Strong competition within our market area could hurt our profits and slow growth. Although we consider ourselves competitive in our market areas, we face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in our earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability will depend upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas. The distressed economy in First Federal of Hazard’s market area could hurt our profits and slow our growth. First Federal of Hazard’s market area consists of Perry and surrounding counties in eastern Kentucky. The economy in this market area has been distressed in recent years due to the decline in the coal industry on which the economy has been dependent. While there has been improvement in the economy from the influx of other industries, such as health care and manufacturing, and there may be signs that the coal industry is improving with the rising costs of petroleum, the economy in First Federal of Hazard’s market area continues to lag behind the economies of Kentucky and the United States. As a result, First Federal of Hazard has experienced insufficient loan demand in its market area. While First Federal of Hazard will seek to use excess funds to purchase loans from First Federal of Frankfort, we expect the redeployment of funds from securities into loans to take several years. Moreover, the slow economy in First Federal of Hazard’s market area will limit our ability to grow our asset base in that market. 18 Recently enacted regulatory reform may have a material impact on our operations. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision will be merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which regulates national banks. Savings and loan holding companies will be regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as occurred in 2008-2009. Also included is the creation of a new federal agency to administer and enforce consumer and fair lending laws, a function that is now performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered depository institutions will be reduced as well. The Dodd-Frank Act also will impose consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in five years, which will limit our ability to borrow at the holding company and invest the proceeds from such borrowings as capital in First Federal of Hazard or First Federal of Frankfort that could be leveraged to support additional growth. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased compliance costs resulting from possible future consumer and fair lending regulations. We expect that our return on equity will be low compared to other companies as a result of our high level of capital. Return on average equity, which equals net income divided by average equity, is a ratio used by many investors to compare the performance of a particular company with other companies. For the year ended June 30, 2010, our return on average equity was 0.73%. We also intend to continue managing excess capital through our stock repurchase program, which has been successful, given relatively low market prices of the Company’s common stock. However, this program could be curtailed or rendered less effective if the market price of our stock increases, or if the Company’s liquid funds are deployed elsewhere. Our goal of generating a return on average equity that is competitive with other publicly-held subsidiaries of mutual holding companies, by increasing earnings per share and book value per share, without assuming undue risk, could take a number of years to achieve, and we cannot assure that our goal will be attained. Consequently, you should not expect a competitive return on average equity in the near future. Failure to achieve a competitive return on average equity might make an investment in our common stock unattractive to some investors and might cause our common stock to trade at lower prices than comparable companies with higher returns on average equity. Additional annual employee compensation and benefit expenses may reduce our profitability and stockholders’ equity. We will continue to recognize employee compensation and benefit expenses for employees and executives under our benefit plans. With regard to the employee stock ownership plan, applicable accounting practices require that the expense be based on the fair market value of the shares of common stock at specific points in the future, therefore we will recognize expenses for our employee stock ownership plan when shares are committed to be released to participants’ accounts. We will also recognize expenses for restricted stock awards and options over the vesting periods of those awards. In addition, employees of both subsidiary Banks participate in a defined-benefit plan through Pentegra. Costs associated with the defined-benefit plans could increase or legislation could be enacted that would increase the Banks’ obligations under the plan or change the methods the Banks use in accounting for the plans. Those changes could adversely affect personnel expense and the Company’s balance sheet. 19 First Federal MHC owns a majority of our common stock and is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders, including preventing sale or merger transactions you may like or a second-step conversion by First Federal MHC. First Federal MHC owns a majority of our common stock and, through its Board of Directors, is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. As a federally chartered mutual holding company, the board of directors of First Federal MHC must ensure that the interests of depositors of First Federal of Hazard are represented and considered in matters put to a vote of stockholders of Kentucky First. Therefore, the votes cast by First Federal MHC may not be in your personal best interests as a stockholder. For example, First Federal MHC may exercise its voting control to prevent a sale or merger transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium for their shares, prevent a second-step conversion transaction by First Federal MHC or defeat a stockholder nominee for election to the Board of Directors of Kentucky First. However, implementation of a stock-based incentive plan will require approval of Kentucky First’s stockholders other than First Federal MHC. Office of Thrift Supervision regulations would likely prevent an acquisition of Kentucky First other than by another mutual holding company or a mutual institution. There may be a limited market for our common stock which may lower our stock price. Although our shares of common stock are listed on the Nasdaq Global Market, there is no guarantee that the shares will be regularly traded. If an active trading market for our common stock does not develop, you may not be able to sell all of your shares of common stock on short notice and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 