Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and the other information set forth elsewhere in this Current Report. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, perhaps significantly. Risks Related to Our Business Loss of significant customers, or other major customers, could casually hurt our business by reducing our revenues and profitability. Our success depends substantially upon retaining our significant clients. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain long-term relationships or secure renewals of short-term relationships with our significant clients in the future. We face intense competition. The market we serve is intensely competitive in the PRC. There are other providers that we compete with for business. There are low barriers to entry for new competitors in this market and we may experience negative impacts as a result of increased competition. In addition, our existing or potential competitors may in the future achieve greater market acceptance and gain additional market share, which in turn could reduce our revenues. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives and employees or fail to add new senior and middle managers to our management. Our future success is heavily dependent upon the continued service of our key executives. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and middle managers to our management team. If one or more of our current or future key executives and employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to easily replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of these key executives or employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we could lose customers and suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us. We also rely on a number of key technology staff for the operation of our company. Given the competitive nature of our industry, the risk of key technology staff leaving our company is little high and could disrupt our operations. 7 We rely on a third party production center. We utilize a third party production center for the manufacture of the products we sell to our customers. Should we be required to utilize a different source for our manufactured products our costs could be negatively affected. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment strain our limited resources. We will need to increase our investment in our technology infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations, in particular our product development. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our products and services and in turn our customer support could deteriorate and our business may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: o Continue to develop through our research and development facilities new technologies acceptable to the PRC market, o continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees, including our senior management, most of whom have been with our company for less than one year, o develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls, and o maintain adequate controls and procedures to ensure that our periodic public disclosure under applicable laws, including U.S. securities laws, is complete and accurate. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We rely on contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. Monitoring unauthorized use of our information services is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take will effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology and content. Our management may determine in the future to make application for copyright, trademark or trade secret protection if management determines that such protection would be beneficial and cost-effective. From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. In addition, third parties may initiate litigation against us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. In the event of a successful claim of infringement and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or content or license the infringed or similar technology or content on a timely basis, our business could suffer. Moreover, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or content, license fees that we pay to licensors could be substantial or uneconomical. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in the PRC is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in the PRC offer limited business insurance products, and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. As a 8 result, we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Our ability to generate revenues could suffer if the Chinese market for cellular phones does not develop as anticipated. The cellular phones market in the PRC has evolved rapidly over the last four years, with the introduction of new products, development of consumer preferences, market entry by new competitors and adaptation of strategies by existing competitors. We expect each of these trends to continue, and we must continue to adapt our strategy to successfully compete in our market. It is extremely difficult to accurately predict consumer acceptance and demand for various existing and potential new offerings and services, and the future size, composition and growth of this market. Risks Related to Doing Business in the PRC A downturn in the Chinese economy may slow down our growth and profitability. The growth of the Chinese economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the Chinese economy will be steady or that any downturn will not have a negative effect on our business. Our profitability will decrease if expenditures for wireless services decrease due to a downturn in the Chinese economy. More specifically, increased penetration of wireless services in the less economically developed central and western provinces of China will depend on those provinces achieving certain income levels so that cellular phones and related services become affordable to a significant portion of the population. Government regulation of the telecommunications industry may become more complex. Government regulation of the telecommunications industry is highly complex. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. These regulations may stop or slow down the expansion of our user base and limit the access to our services. The uncertain legal environment in China could limit the legal protections available to you. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In the late 1970s, the Chinese government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. 9 Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in China, where all of our revenue is derived, and in Beijing where our operations are headquartered, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: o quarantines or closures of some of our offices which would severely disrupt our operations, o the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and o a general slowdown in the Chinese economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Changes in China's political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of China has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of China, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: o economic structure; o level of government involvement in the economy; o level of development; o level of capital reinvestment; o control of foreign exchange; o methods of allocating resources; and o balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Because almost all of our future revenues may be in the form of Renminbi, any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the 10 Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies, after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the Chinese regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. Risks Related to our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price for our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: o actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, o announcements of new products and services by us or our competitors, o changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, o changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies providing similar products and services, o announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, o additions or departures of key personnel, o potential litigation, or o conditions in the cellular phone market. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 11 Stockholders could experience substantial dilution. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock to raise additional cash for working capital. If we issue additional shares of our capital stock, our stockholders will experience dilution in their respective percentage ownership in the company. We have no present intention to pay dividends. We have never paid dividends or made other cash distributions on our common stock, and do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for working capital and to finance current operations and expansion of our business. A large portion of our common stock is controlled by a small number of stockholders. A large portion of our common stock is held by a small number of stockholders. As a result, these stockholders are able to influence the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions including business combinations. In addition, the occurrence of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may affect our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. Furthermore, the current ratios of ownership of our common stock reduce the public float and liquidity of our common stock which can in turn affect the market price of our common stock. We may be subject to "penny stock" regulations. The U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted rules that regulate broker-dealer practices in connection with transactions in "penny stocks." Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00 (other than securities registered on certain national securities exchanges or quoted on the NASDAQ system, provided that current price and volume information with respect to transactions in such securities is provided by the exchange or system). Penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC, which specifies information about penny stocks and the nature and significance of risks of the penny stock market. A broker-dealer must also provide the customer with bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer, and our sales person in the transaction, and monthly account statements indicating the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from those rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the trading activity in the secondary market for stock that becomes subject to those penny stock rules. Whenever any of our securities become subject to the penny stock rules, holders of those securities may have difficulty in selling those securities. 12 Our securities are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which limits the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. Our securities are traded in the over-the-counter market and quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an inter-dealer automated quotation system for equity securities sponsored and operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., or NASD, but not included in The Nasdaq Stock Market. Quotation of our securities on the OTC Bulletin Board limits the liquidity and price of our securities more than if our securities were quoted or listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market or a national exchange. Lack of liquidity will limit the price at which you may be able to sell our securities or your ability to sell our securities at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 