ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary and Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical or current facts, including statements about our expectations, anticipated financial results and future business prospects, are forward-looking statements. You can identify these statements by our use of words such as "may," "expect," "believe," "should," "plan," "anticipate" and other similar expressions. You can find examples of these statements throughout this report, including "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of this Form 10-K. We cannot guarantee that our actual results will be consistent with the forward-looking statements we make in this report. We have listed below some of the inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we project. We do not assume an obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Current macroeconomic conditions and the current credit crisis have had and may continue to have an impact on our business and our financial condition. Economic conditions, both domestically and abroad, directly influence our operating results. Current and future economic conditions that affect consumer and business spending, including the level of unemployment, energy costs, inflation, availability of credit, and the financial condition and growth prospects of our customers may continue to adversely affect our business and the results of our operations. We may face significant challenges if macroeconomic conditions do not improve or continue to worsen. The impact of the credit crisis on our customers could adversely impact the overall demand for our products and services, which would have a negative effect on our revenues, as well as impact our customers' ability to pay their obligations, which could have a negative effect on our bad debt expense and cash flows. Also, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions, including if we were to experience reduced availability in our Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement ("Loan Agreement") due to lower secured assets. In September 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ("Lehman"), a guarantor under a portion of our timber installment notes, filed for bankruptcy. As a result, in the third quarter of 2008, we recorded an impairment charge of $735.8 million on the timber installment note guaranteed by Lehman, which reduced net income by $449.5 million. The credit crisis could have additional adverse impact on our business and financial condition if parties to our debt agreements are forced to file for bankruptcy or are otherwise unable to perform their obligations. In addition, we sponsor noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering certain terminated employees, vested employees, retirees, and some active employees (the "Pension Plans"). The Pension Plans are under-funded and we may be required to make large contributions in subsequent years in order to maintain required funding levels, which will have an adverse impact on our cash flows and our financial results. Additional future contributions of common stock or cash to the Pension Plans, financial market performance and IRS funding requirements could materially change these expected payments. Our business may be adversely affected by the actions of and risks associated with our third-party vendors. We use and resell many manufacturers' branded items and services and are therefore dependent on the availability and pricing of key products and services including ink, toner, paper and technology products. As a reseller, we cannot control the supply, design, function, cost or vendor-required conditions of sale of many of the products we offer for sale. Disruptions in the availability of these products or the products and services we consume may adversely affect our sales and result in customer dissatisfaction. In addition, a material interruption in service by the carriers that ship goods within our supply chain may adversely affect our sales. Many of our 5 Table of Contents vendors are small or medium sized businesses which are being significantly impacted by current macroeconomic conditions, both in the U.S. and Asia, including reduced access to credit. We may have no warning before a vendor fails, which may have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, we cannot control the cost of manufacturers' products, and cost increases must either be passed along to our customers or will result in erosion of our earnings. Failure to identify desirable products and make them available to our customers when desired and at attractive prices could have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. Our product offering also includes many proprietary branded products. While we have focused on the quality of our proprietary branded products, we rely on third party manufacturers for these products. Such third-party manufacturers may prove to be unreliable, the quality of our globally sourced products may not meet our expectations, such products may not meet applicable regulatory requirements which may require us to recall those products, or such products may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. Furthermore, economic and political conditions in areas of the world where we source such products may adversely affect the availability and cost of such products. In addition, our proprietary branded products compete with other manufacturers' branded items that we offer. As we continue to increase the number and types of proprietary branded products that we sell, we may adversely affect our relationships with our vendors, who may decide to reduce their product offerings through OfficeMax and increase their product offerings through our competitors. Finally, if any of our customers are harmed by our proprietary branded products, they may bring product liability and other claims against us. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Intense competition in our markets could harm our ability to maintain profitability. Domestic and international office products markets are highly and increasingly competitive. Customers have many options when purchasing office supplies and paper, print and document services, technology products and solutions and office furniture. We compete with worldwide contract stationers, office supply superstores, mass merchandisers, wholesale clubs, computer and electronics superstores, Internet merchandisers, direct-mail distributors, discount retailers, drugstores, supermarkets and thousands of local and regional contract stationers. In addition, an increasing number of manufacturers of computer hardware, software and peripherals, including some of our suppliers, have expanded their own direct marketing efforts. The other large office supply superstores have increased their presence in close proximity to our stores in recent years and are expected to continue to do so in the future. In addition, many of our competitors have expanded their office products assortment, and we expect they will continue to do so. We anticipate increasing competition from our two domestic office supply superstore competitors and various other competitors for print-for-pay and related services. Print and documents services, or print-for-pay, and related services have historically been a key point of difference for OfficeMax stores. Any or all of our competitors may become even more aggressive in the future. Increased competition in the office products markets, together with increased advertising, has heightened price awareness among end-users. Such heightened price awareness has led to margin pressure on office products and impacted the results of both our Retail and Contract segments. In addition to price, competition is also based on customer service, differentiation from competitors, the quality and breadth of product selection, and convenient locations. Some of our competitors are larger than us and have greater financial resources, which afford them greater purchasing power, increased financial flexibility and more capital resources for expansion and improvement, which may enable them to compete more effectively. We may be unable to identify additional sales through new distribution opportunities or replace lost sales. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand our product sales in a manner that achieves appropriate sales and profit levels. This could include selling our products through other retailers, opening new stores or entering into novel distribution arrangements. When we sell our products through other retailers we rely on those retailers to 6 Table of Contents provide an appropriate customer experience and our sales are dependant on the foot traffic and sales of the retail partner. Although we may have influence over the appearance of the area within the store where our products appear, we have no control over store marketing, staffing or any other aspects of our retail partners' operations. Although we frequently test new store designs, formats, sizes and market areas, if we are unable to generate the required sales or profit levels, as a result of macroeconomic or operational challenges, we will not open new stores. Similarly, we will only continue to operate existing stores if they meet required sales or profit levels. In the current macroeconomic environment, the results of our existing stores are impacted not only by a reduced sales environment, but by a number of things that are not within our control, such as loss of traffic resulting from store closures by other significant retailers in the stores' immediate vicinity. If we are required to close stores, we will be subject to costs and impairment charges that may adversely affect our financial results. Failure to increase sales through new distribution opportunities or replace lost sales could materially and adversely affect our future financial performance. Our international operations expose us to the unique risks inherent in foreign operations. Our foreign operations encounter risks similar to those faced by our U.S. operations, as well as risks inherent in foreign operations, such as local customs and regulatory constraints, foreign trade policies, competitive conditions, foreign currency fluctuations and unstable political and economic conditions. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuation. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Factors that may contribute to these quarter-to-quarter fluctuations could include the effects of seasonality, severe weather, our level of advertising and marketing, new store openings, changes in product mix and competitors' pricing. Most of our operating expenses do not vary depending on the level of sales; if we are unable to reduce these expenses commensurately with the reduced sales then these quarterly fluctuations could have an adverse effect on both our financial results and the price of our common stock. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified associates. We attempt to attract and retain an appropriate level of personnel in both field operations and corporate functions. We face many external risks and internal factors in meeting our labor needs, including competition for qualified personnel, prevailing wage rates, as well as rising employee benefit costs, including insurance costs and compensation programs. Failure to attract and retain sufficient qualified personnel could interfere with our ability to adequately provide services to customers. Our expanded offering of proprietary branded products may not improve our financial performance and may expose us to product liability claims. Our product offering includes many proprietary branded products. While we have focused on the quality of our proprietary branded products, we rely on third party manufacturers for these products. Such third-party manufacturers may prove to be unreliable, the quality of our globally sourced products may not meet our expectations or such products may not meet applicable regulatory requirements which may require us to recall those products. Furthermore, economic and political conditions in areas of the world where we source such products may adversely affect the availability and cost of such products. In addition, our proprietary branded products compete with other manufacturers' branded items that we offer. As we continue to increase the number and types of proprietary branded products that we sell, we may adversely affect our relationships with our vendors, who may decide to reduce their product offerings through OfficeMax and increase their product offerings through our competitors. Finally, if any of our customers are harmed by our proprietary branded products, they may bring product liability and other claims against us. Any of these circumstances could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We are more leveraged than some of our competitors, which could adversely affect our business plans. A relatively greater portion of our cash flow is used to service debt and other 7 Table of Contents financial obligations including leases and the potential Pension Plans' funding discussed previously. This reduces the funds we have available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, new stores, store remodels and other purposes and, given current credit constriction, may make it more difficult for us to make borrowings in the future. Similarly, our relatively greater leverage increases our vulnerability to, and limits our flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions and creates other competitive disadvantages compared with other companies with relatively less leverage. Compromises of our information security may adversely affect our business. Through our sales and marketing activities, we collect and store certain personal information that our customers provide to purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on our website, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. We also gather and retain information about our associates in the normal course of business. We may share information about such persons with vendors that assist with certain aspects of our business. Despite instituted safeguards for the protection of such information, we cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our networks or our vendors' network security and, if successful, misappropriate confidential customer or business information. In addition, a Company employee, contractor or other third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures in order to obtain such information or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Loss of customer or business information could disrupt our operations and expose us to claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot ensure systems and technology will be fully integrated or updated. We cannot ensure our systems and technology will be successfully updated. We have current plans to update the financial reporting platform as well as the technology in our call centers. We will be implementing these technical upgrades in 2010 which is a complicated and difficult endeavor. Failure to successfully complete these upgrades could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. In addition, at the time of our acquisition of OfficeMax, Inc., we partially integrated the systems of the two companies. If we do not ultimately integrate our systems, it may constrain our ability to provide the level of service our customers' demand which could thereby cause us to operate inefficiently. We retained responsibility for certain liabilities of the sold paper, forest products and timberland businesses. In connection with the Sale, we agreed to assume responsibility for certain liabilities of the businesses we sold. These obligations include liabilities related to environmental, health and safety, tax, litigation and employee benefit matters. Some of these retained liabilities could turn out to be significant, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our exposure to these liabilities could harm our ability to compete with other office products distributors, who would not typically be subject to similar liabilities. In particular, we are exposed to risks arising from our ability to meet the funding obligations of our Pension Plans and withdrawal requests from participants pursuant to legacy benefit plans, each of which could require cash to be redirected and adversely impact our cash flows and financial results. Our investment in Boise Cascade Holdings, L.L.C. subjects us to the risks associated with the paper and forest products industry. When we sold our paper, forest products and timberland assets, we purchased an equity interest in Boise Cascade Holdings, L.L.C. Through our investment in Boise Cascade Holdings, L.L.C., we also hold an indirect interest in Boise Inc., including its wholly-owned subsidiary Boise White Paper, L.L.C., the paper manufacturing business of Boise Cascade Holdings, L.L.C. This continuing interest in Boise Cascade Holdings, L.L.C. subjects us to market risks associated with the paper and forest products industry. These industries are subject to 8 Table of Contents cyclical market pressures. Historical prices for products have been volatile, and industry participants have limited influence over the timing and extent of price changes. The relationship between supply and demand in these industries significantly affects product pricing. Demand for building products is driven mainly by factors such as new construction and remodeling rates, business and consumer credit availability, interest rates and weather. The recent falloff in U.S. housing starts has resulted in lower building products shipments and prices. The supply of paper and building products fluctuates based on manufacturing capacity. Excess manufacturing capacity, both domestically and abroad, can result in significant variations in product prices. Our ability to realize the carrying value of our equity interest in Boise Cascade Holdings, L.L.C. is dependent upon many factors, including the operating performance of Boise Cascade, L.L.C. and Boise Inc. and other market factors that may not be specific to Boise Cascade, L.L.C. or Boise Inc., due in part to the fact that there is not a liquid market for our equity interest. Our exposure to these risks could decrease our ability to compete effectively with our competitors, who typically are not subject to such risks. Our obligation to purchase paper from Boise White Paper L.L.C.. concentrates our supply of an important product primarily with a single supplier. When we sold our paper, forest products and timberland assets, we agreed to purchase substantially all of our requirements of paper for resale from Boise Cascade, L.L.C., or its affiliates or assigns, currently Boise White Paper L.L.C., on a long term basis. The price we pay for this paper is market based and therefore subject to fluctuations in the supply and demand for the products. Our purchase obligation limits our ability to take advantage of spot purchase opportunities and exposes us to potential interruptions in supply, which could impact our ability to compete effectively with our competitors, who would not typically be restricted in this way. We have substantial business operations in states in which the regulatory environment is particularly challenging. Our operations in California and other heavily regulated states with relatively more aggressive enforcement efforts expose us to a particularly challenging regulatory environment, including, without limitation, consumer protection laws, advertising regulations, escheat, and employment and wage and hour regulations. This regulatory environment requires the Company to maintain a heightened compliance effort and exposes us to defense costs, possible fines and penalties, and liability to private parties for monetary recoveries and attorneys' fees, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We are periodically involved in various legal proceedings, which may involve state and federal governmental inquiries and investigations, employment, tort, consumer litigation and intellectual property litigation. In addition, we may be subject to investigations by regulatory agencies and customers audits. These legal proceedings, investigations and audits could expose us to significant defense costs, fines, penalties, and liability to private parties for monetary recoveries and attorneys' fees, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our results may be adversely affected by disruptions or catastrophic events. Unforeseen events, including public health issues, such as the H1N1 flu pandemic, and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes and other adverse weather and climate conditions, whether occurring in the United States or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of our suppliers or customers, have an adverse impact on consumer spending and confidence levels or result in political or economic instability. Moreover, in the event of a natural disaster or public health issue, we may be required to suspend operations in some or all of our locations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These events could also reduce demand for our products or make it difficult or impossible to receive products from suppliers. 9 Table of Contents Fluctuations in our effective tax rate may adversely affect our results of operations. We are a multi-national, multi-channel provider of office products and services. As a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various countries, states and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Our effective tax rate may be lower or higher than our tax rates have been in the past due to numerous factors, including the sources of our income, any agreements we may have with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions, and the tax filing positions we take in various jurisdictions. We base our estimate of an effective tax rate at any given point in time upon a calculated mix of the tax rates applicable to our company and to estimates of the amount of business likely to be done in any given jurisdiction. The loss of one or more agreements with taxing jurisdictions, a change in the mix of our business from year to year and from country to country, changes in rules related to accounting for income taxes, changes in tax laws in any of the multiple jurisdictions in which we operate or adverse outcomes from tax audits that we may be subject to in any of the jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our effective tax rate. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 10 Table of Contents 