ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary and Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical or current facts, including statements about our expectations, anticipated financial results and future business prospects, are forward-looking statements. You can identify these statements by our use of words such as "may," "will," "expect," "believe," "should," "plan," "anticipate" and other similar expressions. You can find examples of these statements throughout this report, including Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We cannot guarantee that our actual results will be consistent with the forward-looking statements we make in this report. We have listed below some of the inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those we project. We do not assume an obligation to update any forward-looking statement. Intense competition in our markets could harm our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. The office products market is highly competitive. Purchasers of office products have many options when purchasing office supplies and paper, print and document services, technology products and solutions and office furniture. We compete with worldwide contract stationers, large retail office products suppliers, direct-mail distributors, discount retailers, drugstores, supermarkets and thousands of local and regional contract stationers, many of whom have long-standing customer relationships. Increased competition in the office products industry, together with increased advertising, has heightened price awareness among end-users. Such heightened price awareness has led to margin pressure on office products. Some of our competitors are larger than we are and have greater financial and other resources available to them, and there can be no assurance that we can continue to compete successfully with them. Our retail business may face increased competition from well-established mass merchant retailers who have the financial and distribution abilities to compete effectively with us should they choose to (a) increase their presence in the office superstore, Internet office supply or contract stationer business, or (b) substantially expand their office product offerings in their existing retail outlets. Further, various other retailers that have not historically competed with superstores, such as drugstores and grocery chains, have begun carrying at least a limited assortment of basic office supplies. Many of our competitors have increased their presence in our markets in recent years and are expected to do so in the future. We may also encounter significant competition in the areas of price and selection from merchants that focus heavily on Internet sales, some of whom may operate few, if any, stores and thereby limit their fixed costs. In particular, they may be formidable competitors with respect to customers who are willing to look for the absolute lowest price without regard to the other attributes of our business model, including customer service. In addition, increasing numbers of manufacturers of computer hardware, software and peripherals, including certain of our suppliers, have expanded their own direct marketing of products, particularly over the Internet. There is a possibility that any or all of these competitors could become more aggressive in the future, thereby increasing the number and breadth of our competitors, potentially having a material adverse effect on our retail business and results of our operations. We may be unable to open and remodel stores successfully. Our business plans include the opening and remodeling of a significant number of retail stores, including the opening of up to 70 new stores in 2006. For these plans to be successful, we must identify and lease favorable store 6 sites, develop remodeling plans, hire and train associates and adapt management and systems to meet the needs of these operations. These tasks are difficult to manage successfully. If we are not able to open and remodel stores as quickly as we have planned, our future financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. Further, we cannot ensure that the new or remodeled stores will achieve the sales or profit levels that we anticipate. This is particularly true as we introduce different store designs, formats and sizes or enter into new market areas. In particular, the "Advantage" prototype store format we intend to utilize for new and remodeled stores is new and there can be no assurance as to whether or to what extent that format will be successful. Economic conditions directly influence our operating results. Economic conditions, both domestically and abroad, directly influence our operating results. Current economic conditions, including the level of unemployment and energy costs, may adversely affect our business and the results of our operations. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuation. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. Factors that may contribute to these quarter-to-quarter fluctuations could include the effects of seasonality, our level of advertising and marketing, new store openings, changes in product mix and competitors' pricing. These quarterly fluctuations could have an adverse effect on both our operating results and the price of our common stock. Our operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. In conjunction with our headquarters consolidation, we will need to hire approximately 600 new employees to replace existing associates who are not relocating to the new headquarters. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining highly qualified associates. Additionally, we may not be able to continue to attract and retain other key personnel in the future. The inability to continue to attract and retain other key personnel could adversely affect our operating results. We cannot ensure the headquarters consolidation will go smoothly. The consolidation of our headquarters in Naperville, Illinois in 2006 not only requires the hiring of approximately 600 new associates as discussed above, it also involves the relocation of our data center and other key corporate functions. Unanticipated complications in the headquarters consolidation could adversely affect our operating results. We have more indebtedness than some of our key competitors, which could adversely affect our cash flows, business and ability to fulfill our debt obligations. Although we have repaid a significant portion of our debt with the proceeds from the Sale, we will still have more debt than several of our key competitors. Because we have more debt, we are required to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to repay debt. This reduces the funds we have available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, new stores, store remodels and other purposes. Similarly, our larger debt levels increase our vulnerability to, and limit our flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions and create other competitive disadvantages compared with other companies with lower debt levels. We cannot ensure the completion of our integration efforts will be successful. Our acquisition of OfficeMax, Inc., in December 2003, required the integration and coordination of our existing contract stationer operations with the retail operations of the acquired company. We have not completed the integration of these operations. Integrating and coordinating these operations has involved complex operational and personnel-related challenges. This process will continue to be time-consuming and expensive, may disrupt our day-to-day business activities and may not result in the full benefits that we expect. The difficulties, costs and delays that we could still encounter include unanticipated issues in integrating information, communications and other systems; the loss of customers; unanticipated incompatibility of purchasing, logistics, marketing, 7 and administration methods; and unanticipated costs of terminating or relocating facilities and operations. There may also be negative effects associated with employee morale and performance because of job changes and reassignments. We retained responsibility for certain liabilities of the paper, forest products and timberland businesses we sold. These obligations include liabilities related to environmental, tax, litigation and employee benefit matters. Some of these retained liabilities could turn out to be significant, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our exposure to these liabilities could harm our ability to compete with other office products distributors, who would not typically be subject to similar liabilities. Our continued equity interest in Boise Cascade, L.L.C. subjects us to the risks associated with the paper and forest products industry. When we sold our forest products businesses, we purchased a continuing equity interest in affiliates of Boise Cascade, L.L.C. In addition, we have an ongoing obligation to purchase paper from an affiliate of Boise Cascade, L.L.C. These continuing interests subject us to market risks associated with the paper and forest products industry. These industries are subject to cyclical market pressures. Historical prices for products have been volatile, and industry participants have limited influence over the timing and extent of price changes. The relationship between supply and demand in these industries significantly affects product pricing. Demand for building products is driven mainly by factors such as new construction and remodeling rates, interest rates and weather. The supply of paper and building products fluctuates based on manufacturing capacity, and excess capacity, both domestically and abroad, can result in significant variations in product prices. The level of supply and demand for forest products will affect the price we pay for paper. Our ability to realize the carrying value of our equity interest in affiliates of Boise Cascade L.L.C. is dependent upon many factors, including the operating performance of Boise Cascade L.L.C. and other market factors that may not be specific to Boise Cascade L.L.C., due in part to the fact that there is not a liquid market for our equity interest. Our exposure to these risks could decrease our ability to compete effectively with our competitors, who typically are not subject to such exposures. Compromises of customer debit and credit card data, regardless of the source of the breach, may damage OfficeMax reputation. There is an ongoing federal investigation relating to ATM fraud involving legitimate debit card use at various retailers that was later tied to fraudulent transactions outside the U.S. While we have no knowledge of a security breach at OfficeMax, it is possible that information security compromises involving OfficeMax customer data, including breaches that occur at third party processors, may damage our reputation. Such damage to our reputation could adversely affect our operating results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 