ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making an investment decision. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those expected in those forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including the risks and uncertainties faced by us described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry We have a history of losses, do not expect to be profitable in the foreseeable future and may never be profitable. Since inception, we have generated limited revenues while incurring significant losses. We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future until such time, if ever, as we are able to achieve sufficient levels of revenue from the commercial exploitation of our P-OLED, TMA and related technologies to support our operations. You should note that: • neither P-OLED, TMA nor related technologies may never be broadly commercially adopted; • markets for FPD using P-OLED, TMA and related technologies may be limited; and • we may never generate sufficient revenues from the commercial exploitation of our P-OLED, TMA and related technologies to become profitable. We license our P-OLED and related technologies to P-OLED materials manufacturers and display manufacturers, which then incorporate our technologies into the materials and products they sell. Even if we and our display manufacturer licensees develop commercially viable applications for our technologies, we may never recover our research and development expenses. We have had significant net losses in previous periods and expect to report net losses in future periods, and as of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of over $195 million. We cannot predict what impact continued net losses might have on our ability to finance our operations in the future or on the market value of our common stock. Because we are at an early stage of development and have a limited operating history, our future results are unpredictable. Our future success is uncertain because we have a limited operating history and face many risks and uncertainties. If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks and uncertainties, we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue growth to support ongoing operations. We were formed in 1992 to research and develop P-OLED technology. We began licensing P-OLED technology to original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, in 1996, and in 2002 this technology was initially commercialized. Accordingly, there is only a limited amount of past experience upon which to evaluate our business and prospects, and a potential investor should consider the challenges, expenses, delays and other difficulties involved in the development of our business, including the continued development of our P-OLED, TMA and related technologies, refinement of processes and components for commercial products using our P-OLED, TMA and related technologies, formation of additional commercial relationships and achievement of market acceptance for products using P-OLED, TMA and related technologies. If our P-OLED, TMA and related technologies are not feasible for broad-based product applications, we may never generate revenues sufficient to support ongoing operations. Before manufacturers of displays and other products which use our P-OLED, TMA and related technologies will agree to use these technologies for wide-scale commercial production, they will likely require us to demonstrate to their satisfaction that these technologies are feasible for their particular product applications. 16 Table of Contents This, in turn, would require additional advances in our research and development efforts, as well as those of others, for applications in a number of areas, including: • device reliability; • the development of TMA driver chips; • the development of P-OLED materials with sufficient lifetimes, brightness and color coordinates for the applications in question; and • issues related to scalability and cost-effective fabrication technologies. Currently, P-OLED displays are being or have been used or tested for small- to medium-sized product applications such as mobile phones, PDAs, digital cameras and camcorders (including electronic viewfinders), portable DVD players, electric shavers, MP3 players, in-car entertainment and navigation displays and other applications. P-OLED displays have not yet been commercially introduced in larger applications such as laptop computers, desktop computer monitors or televisions other than in prototypes. To date, we have not attained the service lifetimes required by the manufacturers of these more demanding larger applications. Our TMA technology is at an early stage of development and has only been demonstrated in a “proof of concept” demonstrator. Our research and development efforts remain subject to all of the risks associated with the development of new products based on emerging and innovative technologies, including, for example, unexpected technical problems or the possible insufficiency of funds for completing development of these products. Technical problems may result in delays in the implementation of our technologies in specific applications and cause us to incur additional expenses that would increase our losses. If we cannot complete research and development of our P-OLED technology successfully, or if we experience delays in completing research and development of our P-OLED technology for use in potential commercial applications, particularly after incurring significant expenditures, our business may fail. Even if our P-OLED, TMA and related technologies are technically feasible, they may not be adopted by display manufacturers. The potential size, timing and viability of market opportunities targeted by us through our display manufacturer licensees are uncertain at this time. Market acceptance of our P-OLED, TMA and related technologies will depend, in part, upon this technology providing benefits comparable to or greater than those provided by cathode ray tube display, LCD or plasma technology (the current standard display technologies) at an advantageous cost to manufacturers, and the adoption of products incorporating this technology by consumers. Display manufacturers make the determination during their product development programs whether to incorporate our P-OLED, TMA or related technologies or pursue other alternatives, and they may be forced to make significant investments of time and cost well before they introduce their products incorporating our technology to the consumer market and before they can be sure that they will generate any significant sales to recover their investment. Moreover, certain existing licensees and potential licensees of our P-OLED technology currently manufacture FPDs using competing technologies, and they may, therefore, be reluctant to redesign their products or manufacturing processes or invest in new or converted facilities to incorporate our P-OLED, TMA or related technologies. During a display manufacturer licensee’s entire product development process, we face the risk that our technology will fail to meet our licensee’s technical, performance or cost requirements or will be replaced by a competing product or alternative technology. For example, we are aware that some of our licensees have entered into arrangements with our competitors regarding the development of competing technologies, including the potential production of OLED displays by ink jet printing using phosphorescent materials. Even if we offer 17 Table of Contents technology that is satisfactory to a display manufacturer licensee, they may choose to delay or terminate their product development efforts for reasons unrelated to our technology. The occurrence of any of these events would adversely affect our royalty revenues and may make it difficult to attract additional licensees. Our TMA technology may not be adopted by display manufacturers if chips cannot be developed at a price and with power consumption and other technical characteristics which are attractive to display manufacturers. There are alternatives to P-OLEDs for FPDs, which may limit our ability to commercialize our P-OLED technology. The FPD market is currently, and will likely continue to be for some time, dominated by displays based on LCD technology. Numerous companies have made and are continuing to make substantial investments in, and are conducting research to improve the characteristics of, LCDs. Several other FPD technologies have been, or are being, developed, including technologies for the production of field emission, inorganic electroluminescence and plasma. Advances in LCD technology or any of these other technologies may overcome their current limitations and permit them to remain or become more attractive technologies for FPDs, either of which could limit the potential market for FPDs using our P-OLED technology. This, in turn, would cause display manufacturers to avoid entering into commercial relationships with us or to renegotiate, terminate or not renew their existing relationships with us, which may cause our business strategy to fail. Other OLED technologies may be more successful than ours, which may limit the commercial adoption of our P-OLED technology. Other companies have developed OLED technologies that differ from and compete with our P-OLED technology. Certain of these competing OLED technologies entered the marketplace prior to ours and may become entrenched in the flat panel industry before our P-OLED technologies have a chance to become widely adopted. Moreover, competitors may succeed in developing new OLED technologies or new manufacturing techniques that are more cost-effective or have fewer limitations than our P-OLED technology or other existing OLED technologies. If our P-OLED technology is unable to capture a substantial portion of the OLED display market, our business strategy may fail. We believe that a competitive advantage of our P-OLED technology is that, unlike the materials used by competing OLED technologies, our P-OLED materials can be dissolved in common organic solvents to make inks which can be patterned using high precision printing processes to make displays. Several other companies, including, we believe, DuPont Displays, Universal Display Corporation and Seiko Epson, are attempting to develop alternative OLED materials with similar properties and some have claimed progress in this work. If other companies succeed in the development of such materials and also develop associated device structures and manufacturing techniques, it may become possible to print OLED displays which are not covered by our intellectual property. If such technologies are successfully developed and commercialized and are perceived by display makers to be superior to our P-OLED technology, our business strategy may fail. In the short term, a major market for our TMA technology will be Kodak’s SMOLED technology which may not be successful. Currently, a significant market for our TMA technology is Small Molecule OLED technology. A number of plants which manufacture SMOLED displays have discontinued production during the last two years. By the time our TMA technology is ready to be commercialized, the SMOLED market may be too small to make this technology profitable. TMA technology may increase the price competitiveness of SMOLED technology and, therefore, increase the barriers to entry for our own P-OLED technology. 18 Table of Contents Because we do not manufacture or sell any products to end users, we depend on the manufacturing capabilities of our display manufacturer licensees. Any difficulties or delays affecting their manufacturing processes or any decision to terminate or reduce their display manufacturing businesses could harm our business. We license our P-OLED and related technologies to display manufacturers, who then incorporate our technologies into the products that they sell. Because we do not manufacture any commercial products, our success depends on the ability and willingness of our licensees to develop, manufacture and sell commercial products integrating our technologies. Any significant disruption or increase in cost of the manufacturing processes of our display manufacturer licensees or a decision by any of our display manufacturer licensees to terminate or reduce their efforts to manufacture or sell displays would adversely affect our royalty revenues and thus our business. Mass production of P-OLED displays will require the availability of suitable manufacturing equipment, components and materials. Equipment is currently available for many of the required process steps, but the processes and equipment that will be required to deposit P-OLED materials for large-sized, full-color displays are still under development. High precision ink jet printing equipment that could be used to deposit P-OLED materials is being developed by some companies, but, to our knowledge, is only being made available for sale at this time by Litrex, our former subsidiary. The availability of suitable ink jet printing equipment will be contingent on the continued technical success of and sufficient funding for Litrex’s or another manufacturer’s development program. In addition, certain of the components, such as low temperature poly silicon backplanes, used in the production of our licensees’ display products are available only from a limited number of suppliers. If display manufacturers are unable to obtain ink jet printing or other suitable P-OLED deposition equipment or are unable to source other key equipment for the manufacture of large panel sizes or, if they experience unexpected difficulties, expenses or delays with respect to additional required technologies, components or other materials, they may experience increased costs or manufacturing delays and may not be able to manufacture larger-sized, full-color P-OLED displays or may exit the display manufacturing business entirely. This would adversely affect our license fees or royalty payments from them, and we may not be able to increase our revenues and achieve profitability. We expect to derive an increasing portion of our revenues from royalties on sales of products commercialized by our licensees that incorporate our technology. Our display manufacturer licensees operate in a highly competitive environment, and they may not be able to achieve and sustain market position. If they fail to compete successfully, our royalties will decrease or be eliminated. Because we do not sell any products directly to end-users, our success depends upon the ability and continuing willingness of our display manufacturer licensees to market commercial products integrating our technology and the widespread acceptance of those products. Any slowdown in the demand for our licensees’ products would adversely affect our royalty revenues and thus our business. The markets for our display manufacturer licensees’ products are highly competitive, with pressure on prices and profit margins due largely to additional and growing capacity from FPD industry competitors. The principal elements affecting our licensees’ competitive performance in the market for end-user products include their abilities to: • access required capital; • conduct research and development; • reduce time-to-market; • reduce production costs; • offer a competitive price; • offer attractive product features and quality; • offer customer service, including product design support; and • provide sufficient quantity of products to fulfill end-user demand. 19 Table of Contents Success in the market for end-user products that may integrate our P-OLED technology also depends on factors beyond the control of our licensees and us, including the cyclical and seasonal nature of the end-user markets that our licensees serve, as well as industry and general economic conditions. If our licensees fail or otherwise reduce their efforts to commercialize products that incorporate our technology or exit the display manufacturing business entirely, our business strategy may fail. Many of our competitors have greater resources, which may make it difficult for us to compete successfully against them. The FPD industry is characterized by intense competition. Many of our LCD and OLED competitors have better name recognition and greater financial and personnel resources and technical, marketing and research capabilities than us, and because of these differences, we may never be able to compete successfully in the FPD market. LCD is currently the dominant technology in the FPD market. Many of the leading LCD panel manufacturers, such as AU Optronics, Chunghwa Picture Tubes, LG.Philips, Samsung Electronics and Sharp, are large, established companies with global marketing capabilities, widespread brand recognition and extensive financial resources. Eastman Kodak Company is our principal competitor in the OLED industry, with a number of licensees already in commercial production of displays incorporating its passive matrix small molecule OLED, or SMOLED, technology and two companies in production of active matrix driven displays. With the formation of our 50%-owned joint venture, Sumation, we have an interest in the supply of materials to the OLED industry. Merck OLED currently competes with Sumation in the supply of P-OLED materials and other companies, such as DuPont, are believed to be developing similar products. Kodak, Idemitsu Kosan and Universal Display Corporation supply materials to display makers using Kodak’s SMOLED technology. The leading LCD panel manufacturers, who use competing technologies but are also potential licensees of our P-OLED technology, are considerably larger and more established companies, and they have global marketing capabilities and substantially greater financial resources to devote to research and development than we have. If our technology does not compete effectively with these and other display technologies, our business strategy may fail. If our materials supplier licensees fail to make advances in their research, or if they exit that business or otherwise terminate or elect not to renew their relationships with us, we might not succeed in commercializing our P-OLED technology. Research and development of commercially viable applications for our P-OLED technology depends substantially on the success of work relating to P-OLED materials, including resolution of issues relating to materials lifetimes and efficiencies at the brightness levels required for large panel applications. We cannot be certain that we or our materials supplier licensees will make sufficient additional advances in the research and development of P-OLED materials to satisfy these requirements. Moreover, if our materials supplier licensees are unable to meet the requirements of our display manufacturer licensees, or if they exit the P-OLED materials supply business or otherwise terminate or elect not to renew their relationships with us and no viable successor can be found, our business strategy may fail. If we cannot form and maintain lasting business relationships with P-OLED display manufacturers, our business strategy will fail. Our business strategy depends upon our development and maintenance of commercial licensing relationships with high-volume manufacturers of P-OLED displays. We have issued licenses to a number of display manufacturers and have technology development relationships with a number of other companies in the 20 Table of Contents industry for the purpose of evaluating our P-OLED technology for possible use in commercial production. Any of these relationships may fail to result in the display manufacturers entering into a licensing arrangement or, subsequently, commercial production, as applicable, of devices using our P-OLED technology on a scale sufficient for our business strategy to succeed. Moreover, if a licensee is no longer using our technology, it can generally terminate the license agreement upon notice and without further payment to us. Under our existing technology development and evaluation agreements, we are working with display manufacturers to incorporate our technology into their products for the commercial production of P-OLED displays. However, these technology development and evaluation agreements typically last for limited periods of time, and these relationships may never lead to development of products and entry into license agreements. Currently, and for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues are and will be derived from a concentrated number of licensees. Our future success will depend upon our ability to establish and maintain relationships with key licensees and to attract new licensees. If our royalty revenues continue to be derived from a few licensee relationships, our operating results will be harmed if those licensees experience operating difficulties or curtail or terminate their use of our licensed technology, and we are not able to obtain replacement royalty sources. Replacement royalty sources may be difficult to obtain because of the lengthy periods required to attract and sign-up new licensees and have them enter commercial production. Our ability to enter into additional commercial licenses, or to maintain our existing technology development and evaluation relationships, may require us to make financial or other commitments. We might not be able, for financial or other reasons, to enter into or continue these relationships on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Failure to do so would cause our business strategy to fail. Conflicts may arise with our licensees or joint development partners, resulting in renegotiation or termination of, or litigation related to, our agreements with them. This would adversely affect our revenues. Conflicts could arise between us and our licensees or joint development partners as to royalty rates, milestone payments or other commercial terms. Similarly, the parties may disagree as to which party owns or has the right to commercialize intellectual property that is developed during the course of the relationship or as to other non-commercial terms. If such a conflict were to arise, a licensee or joint development partner might attempt to compel renegotiation of certain terms of their agreement or terminate their agreement entirely, and we might lose the royalty revenues and other benefits of the agreement. Either we or the licensee or joint development partner might initiate litigation to determine commercial obligations, establish intellectual property rights or resolve other disputes under the related agreements. Such litigation could be costly to us and require substantial attention of management. If we were unsuccessful in such litigation, we could lose the commercial benefits of the agreement, be liable for other financial damages and suffer losses of intellectual property or other rights that are the subject of dispute. Any of these adverse outcomes could cause our business strategy to fail. Some of our licenses contain “most favored nation” provisions. These provisions give licensees the right to reduced royalty rates or refunds of upfront fees in the event that we issue new licenses that have more favorable upfront fee or royalty rates than the existing licenses that contain these “most favored nation” provisions, but are otherwise similar in their terms. If we do not receive additional financing in the future, we might not be able to continue the research, development and commercialization of our P-OLED technology, TMA and related technologies or to continue as a going concern. Our capital requirements have been, and will continue to be, significant. Substantial additional funds will be required in the future to maintain current levels of expenditure for research, development and commercialization of our P-OLED, TMA and related technologies, to obtain and maintain patents and other intellectual property, or IP, rights in these technologies, as well as for working capital and other purposes, the timing and amount of which are difficult to forecast. If we do not achieve our revenue goals, our cash on hand may not be sufficient to meet all of our future needs. When we need additional funds, such funds may not be available on commercially 21 Table of Contents reasonable terms or at all. If we cannot obtain more money when needed, we might be forced to cut back our current activities and our business might fail. We expect, based on our internal forecast and assumptions relating to our operations (including, among others, assumptions regarding our working capital requirements, the progress of our research and development efforts and our revenues, including stage payments due to us pursuant to our contractual arrangements with Matsushita Electrical Industrial), that we will have sufficient cash to meet our obligations for at least the next 12 months. If at some future time, we are unable to demonstrate that we have sufficient cash to meet our obligations for at least the following 12 months, we might have to reconsider the “going concern” basis of presentation in our financial statements and this might adversely impact our ability to raise additional funds. In November 2005, we sold Litrex to ULVAC, Inc. of Japan. Under the terms of our agreements with Litrex and ULVAC, they are obligated to continue to support Litrex’s development of ink jet printers for the display manufacturing industry. If they do not fulfill this obligation, we may exercise our rights under a fallback license to obtain the necessary IP to develop, manufacture and supply ink jet printing equipment for use by manufacturers using our P-OLED technology independent of Litrex. In any such circumstance, we may incur substantial additional costs in order to ensure that ink jet printing equipment is made available for P-OLED display manufacturers. We have the right, but no obligation, to fund ink jet printing development programs at Litrex and may incur costs in doing so if we believe this is necessary for the furtherance of our P-OLED technology. If we are unable to meet our currently projected liquidity requirements from our existing resources, we may need to borrow money or issue additional equity or debt securities. We may not be able to borrow money on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we attempt to raise money in an offering of shares of our common stock, preferred stock, warrants or debt securities, or if we engage in acquisitions involving the issuance of such securities, our then-existing stockholders may be diluted. If we are unable to obtain required financing or reasonable terms, our business may fail. Sumation, our 50%-owned joint venture with Sumitomo Chemical, will require additional funding in future periods. If we are unable to provide such funding our ownership interest may become diluted and the potential realizable value from this investment may be reduced. We or our licensees may incur substantial costs or lose important rights as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to our patent and other intellectual property rights. In recent years, there has been significant litigation involving patents and other IP rights in many technology-related industries, including our own. There may be patents owned by third parties that may be infringed by the use of our technology or a part thereof, thus substantially interfering with the future conduct of our or our licensees’ businesses. Our licensees could be sued by such parties for patent infringement. Such lawsuits could subject them to liability for damages, prevent our licensees from incorporating such patented technology in their products or require our licensees to obtain additional licenses that could increase the cost of their products. As a result there could be an adverse affect on their sales and thus our royalties and this could also cause our licensees to seek to renegotiate our royalty rates. This problem is made more difficult to evaluate, because certain patent applications in the United States are retained in secrecy unless and until the patent issues. In addition, in the future we may assert our IP rights by instituting legal proceedings against others. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in enforcing our patents in any lawsuits we may commence. Defendants in any litigation we may commence to enforce our patents may attempt to establish that our patents are invalid or are unenforceable. Thus, any patent litigation we commence could lead to a determination that one or more of our patents are invalid or unenforceable. If a third party succeeds in invalidating one or more of our patents, that party and others could compete more effectively against us. Our ability to derive licensing revenues from products or technologies covered by these patents could also be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Whether our licensees are defending the assertion of third-party IP rights against their businesses arising as a result of the use of our technology, or we are asserting our own IP rights against others, such litigation can be complex, costly, protracted and highly disruptive to our or our licensees’ business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. As a result, the pendency or adverse outcome of any IP litigation to which we or our licensees are subject could disrupt business operations, require the incurrence of substantial costs and subject us or our licensees to significant liabilities, each of which could severely harm our business. Plaintiffs in IP cases often seek injunctive relief. Any IP litigation commenced against our licensees could force them to take actions that could be harmful to their business and thus to our royalties, including the following: • stop selling their products that incorporate or otherwise use technology that contains our allegedly infringing IP; • attempt to obtain a license to the relevant third-party IP, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all; or • attempt to redesign their products to remove our allegedly infringing IP to avoid infringement of the third-party IP. If our licensees are forced to take any of the foregoing actions, they may be unable to manufacture and sell their products that incorporate our technology at a profit or at all. Furthermore, the measure of damages in IP litigation can be complex and is often subjective or uncertain. If our licensees were to be found liable for infringement of proprietary rights of a third party, the amount of damages they might have to pay could be substantial and is difficult to predict. Decreased sales of our licensees’ products incorporating our technology would adversely affect our royalty revenues under existing licenses. Any necessity to procure rights to the third-party technology might cause our existing licensees to renegotiate the royalty terms of their license with us to compensate for this increase in their cost of production or, in certain cases, to terminate their license with us entirely. Were this renegotiation to occur, certain of our license agreements that contain “most favored nation” provisions, requiring that we offer at least as favorable terms to the holder of such a license as we offer to any other licensee, would be affected and we would also receive reduced royalties from those licenses. These developments would also harm our ability to compete for new licensees and would adversely affect the terms of the royalty arrangements we could enter into with any new licensees. As is commonplace in technology companies, we employ individuals who were previously employed at other technology companies. To the extent our employees are involved in research areas that are similar to those areas in which they were involved at their former employers, we may be subject to claims that such employees or we have, inadvertently or otherwise, used or disclosed the alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of the former employers. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. The costs associated with these actions or the loss of rights critical to our or our licensees’ business could negatively impact our revenues or cause our business to fail. If we cannot obtain and maintain appropriate patent and other intellectual property rights protection for our P-OLED, TMA and related technologies, our business will suffer. The value to us of our P-OLED, TMA and related technologies is dependent on our ability to secure and maintain appropriate patent and other IP rights protection. Although we own or license many patents covering our technology that have already been issued, there can be no assurance that additional patents applied for will be obtained or that any of these patents, once issued, will afford commercially significant protection for our technology or will be found valid if challenged. Moreover, we have not obtained patent protection for some of our technology in all foreign countries in which P-OLED displays or materials, or chips incorporating our TMA technology, might be manufactured or sold. In any event, the patent laws and enforcement regimes of other countries may differ from those of the United States as to the patentability of our P-OLED, TMA and related technologies and the degree of protection afforded. 23 Table of Contents The strength of our current P-OLED IP position results primarily from the essential nature of our fundamental patents covering the P-OLED device and its manufacturing process and electroluminescent devices containing conjugated polymers. These patents expire in 2010, 2011 and 2015. While we hold a wide range of additional patents and patent applications whose expiration dates extend (and in the case of patent applications, will extend) well beyond 2015, many of which are also of key importance in the OLED industry, none is of an equally essential nature as our fundamental patents, and therefore our competitive position after their expiration may be less certain. We may become engaged in litigation to protect or enforce our patent and other IP rights or in International Trade Commission proceedings to abate the importation of goods that would compete unfairly with those of our licensees. In addition, we may have to participate in interference or reexamination proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark office, or in opposition, nullity or other proceedings before foreign patent offices, with respect to our patents or patent applications. All of these actions would place our patents and other IP rights at risk and may result in substantial costs to us as well as a diversion of management attention. Moreover, if successful, these actions could result in the loss of patent or other IP rights protection for the key P-OLED, TMA and related technologies on which our business strategy depends. In addition, we rely in part on unpatented proprietary technology, and others may independently develop the same or similar technology or otherwise obtain access to our unpatented technology. To protect our trade secrets, know-how and other proprietary information, we require employees, consultants, financial advisors and strategic partners to enter into confidentiality agreements. These agreements may not ultimately provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of those trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. In particular, we may not be able to fully or adequately protect our proprietary information as we conduct discussions with potential strategic partners. If we are unable to protect the proprietary nature of our technology, it will harm our business. We are subject to developments in and expenses associated with resolving matters currently in litigation. We have been and may continue to be the subject of complaints or litigation in connection with disputes unrelated to patent or other IP rights described above. We are currently the subject of litigation with Sunnyside Development as described under “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 of Part I above. There is considerable risk associated with any litigation, particularly litigation such as this action, which may be decided by a jury and the outcome of which will be affected by a number of factors beyond our control. As is also the case with other complaints or litigation to which we may become subject, we may incur significant legal costs in defending or settling the action with Sunnyside Development, and if a court finds against us, we could be liable for substantial financial damages or suffer other losses that are the subject of dispute. Such complaints and litigation are also often complex and protracted and disrupt our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. As a result, the pendency or adverse outcome of such complaints and litigation could require the incurrence of substantial costs, subject us to significant liabilities and otherwise disrupt our business operations, each of which could severely harm our business. We review any outstanding claims against us with internal and, if deemed appropriate, external legal counsel to assess the probability and estimates of loss. We reassess the risk of loss as new information becomes available and we adjust liabilities, if any, as appropriate. The actual cost of resolving any claims may be substantially different from the amounts of liability recorded. We have not recorded any liability with respect to the action by Sunnyside Development referred to above. We are exposed to currency fluctuations, which may have an adverse effect on us. A substantial majority of our licensing revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars. These licensing revenues include royalties based on revenues or production costs of our licensees that may be denominated in U.S. dollars or other currencies. Where such revenues or production costs of our licensees are denominated in other 24 Table of Contents currencies, they are converted to U.S. dollars for the purpose of calculating any licensing royalties due to us. Our licensing royalty revenues may decrease as a result of any appreciation of the U.S. dollar against these other currencies. The majority of our current expenditures are incurred in British pounds in order to fund our operations in the United Kingdom. If the U.S. dollar depreciates versus the British pound, additional U.S. dollars will be required to fund our operations in the United Kingdom. We do not currently take out forward contracts, but we may do so in the future, the management of which we may outsource to third parties. There is no guarantee that we or any such third parties will be successful in reducing the risks to us of our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and these fluctuations may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We are a holding company with no significant independent operations, and we therefore rely on our subsidiaries to make funds available to us. We are a holding company with no significant independent operations and no significant assets other than the capital stock of our subsidiaries. We, therefore, will be dependent upon the receipt of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries. The declaration of dividends by our subsidiaries will be subject to the discretion of their boards of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including their results of operations, financial condition, liquidity requirements and indebtedness and restrictions imposed by applicable law. Our inability to receive funds from our operating subsidiaries would adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations and to make dividend payments and other distributions, if any, to holders of our common stock. Due to our significant level of international operations, we are subject to international operational, financial, legal and political risks that may negatively impact our operations. A substantial part of our operations are in the United Kingdom, one of our senior executives is resident in Japan, and many of our licensees have a majority of their operations in countries outside the United States and Europe. Risks associated with our doing business internationally include: • compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, particularly labor, environmental and other laws and regulations that govern our operations in the United Kingdom; • legal uncertainties regarding taxes, tariffs, quotas, export controls, export licenses and other trade barriers; • potentially difficulties in managing an organization effectively where management is geographically dispersed; • difficulties in creating and maintaining effective business relationships in foreign cultural environments; • economic instability in the countries of our licensees, particularly in the Asia-Pacific region, causing delays or reductions in orders for their products and therefore our royalties; • political instability in the countries in which our licensees operate, particularly in South Korea relating to its disputes with North Korea and in Taiwan relating to its disputes with China; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer accounts receivable payment cycles; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of these factors could harm our or our licensees’ existing international operations and business and impair our or our licensees’ ability to continue expanding into international markets. A significant portion of our assets and most of our executive officers are located outside of and are not residents of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for U.S. investors to effect service of process upon such non-resident directors or officers within the United States or to realize against them in the 25 Table of Contents United States upon judgment of courts of the United States predicated upon civil liabilities under the federal securities laws of the United States or the securities or blue sky laws of any state or other jurisdiction within the United States. In addition, courts of another country may not enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against us, our directors or officers predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws or the securities or blue sky laws of any state or other jurisdiction within the United States or enforce, in original actions, liabilities against us, our directors or our officers predicated upon the United States federal securities laws or any state securities or blue sky laws. Our agreements with our licensees and joint development partners are subject to regulation by the European Commission, and particularly to antitrust provisions of such regulations, which could result in fines to us or in those agreements being declared void in whole or in part, either of which would negatively impact our revenues. Our IP licensing agreements and joint development agreements fall under the antitrust provisions of the Treaty of Rome and related regulations. While our display license agreements are generally non-exclusive and without geographic restriction, and while our licensing and joint development relationships generally represent lower market shares than would result in the application of the regulations’ remedies, any violation of the regulations could result in the anti-competitive provisions or the entire relevant agreement being declared void and unenforceable. In addition, we could be subject to a fine of up to 10% of the income of our worldwide group. If we cannot keep our key employees or hire other talented persons as we grow, our business might not succeed. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued services of senior management, particularly our Chief Executive Officer who has been principally responsible for establishing and maintaining many of our most important commercial relationships, and our Chief Technology Officer, who was one of the inventors of our fundamental P-OLED technology and helps direct our technology development program, and on our ability to offer competitive salaries and benefits to our employees. Also, Dr. Fyfe’s current employment agreement with us expires in December 2008. We do not carry key person life insurance on any of our senior management or other key personnel. If we lose the services of key senior management personnel, we may not be able to find suitable replacements in a timely manner or at all, which would seriously harm our business. Additionally, competition for highly skilled technical, managerial and other personnel is intense. We might not be able to attract, hire, train, retain and motivate the highly skilled managers and employees that we might need to be successful. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary technical and managerial personnel, our business will suffer and might fail. We currently have fewer than 130 employees, and we may encounter increasing difficulty in attracting enough qualified personnel as our operations expand and the demand for their services increases. This difficulty could impede the attainment of our research and development objectives and cause our business strategy to fail. In February 2007, we awarded restricted stock units to a number of our senior executives as a long term incentive. These units vest over a two-year period that will end in December 2008, and are intended to retain the services of these executives during this period. There is no assurance that the award of these units will be effective in retaining their services or that we will be able to continue to retain their services after these restricted stock units have fully vested. Our Technology Development Center and our research and development laboratories are critical to our success. Our Technology Development Center in Godmanchester, England and our research and development laboratories are critical to our success. These facilities currently house our principal research, development, engineering and design operations. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of a small amount of hazardous substances as well as other potentially harmful materials, waste and chemicals, which could cause interruption of our research and development efforts or injury to our employees, resulting in liabilities 26 Table of Contents under federal, state, local or foreign laws or regulations governing the use, storage and disposal of these materials. While to date we have not had any issues relating to the use of hazardous materials, any event that causes a disruption of the operation of these facilities for even a relatively short period of time would adversely affect our ability to conduct research and development operations and to provide technical support for our licensees, which would negatively affect our revenues. If we acquire or invest in any companies or technologies or enter into joint ventures in the future, they could prove difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We intend to expand our business primarily through internal growth, but from time to time we may consider strategic acquisitions or other investments, as well as joint ventures, to develop P-OLED materials and displays and related technologies. Any future acquisition, investment or joint venture would involve numerous risks, including: • potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • difficulty integrating the operations and products of the acquired business; • unexpected expenses related to technology integration; • exposure to unknown liabilities, including litigation against the companies we may acquire or in which we invest or the joint ventures we form; • future losses or failure of the acquired business resulting in the impairment of the carrying value of any investment; • additional costs due to differences in culture, geographic locations and duplication of key talent; and • potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired company. In addition, the failure to complete any such acquisition, investment or joint venture after it has been announced and negotiations commenced may have an adverse effect on our business, including the diversion of our management’s time and attention, the negative impact on our business prospects or a decline in the market price for shares of our common stock. We have made investments in Add-Vision Inc., a California company, and MicroEmissive Displays, or MED, which is a publicly quoted company in the United Kingdom. We may not be successful in addressing the risks or any other problems encountered in connection with these or other investments. If the companies in which we invest are not successful in achieving their business objectives the value of their stock may fall and we might have to write down the respective values of our investments. In November 2005, we and Sumitomo Chemical entered into a joint venture agreement, which provides for the organization and capitalization of Sumation to develop and supply advanced P-OLED materials and formulated inks for use in commercial P-OLED displays and lighting applications. Each party to the joint venture agreement has contributed initial working capital to Sumation in exchange for a 50% voting and ownership interest, with an initial two-year budget and any additional funds to be funded equally by each party. To the extent that Sumation does not achieve its expected sales revenues or margins, we may need to provide 50% of any additional working capital funding requirements, although we will be under no formal obligation to do so. The joint venture agreement includes provisions for the possible sale of part or all of our equity stake to Sumitomo Chemical at fair market value after a minimum of five years. After the initial two-year period of the joint venture, the parties have agreed to engage in good faith discussions regarding how the manpower and facilities requirements of the joint venture will be resourced in the third and subsequent years. The joint venture agreement may be terminated by either party by mutual written agreement, or by one of the parties in the case of a material breach of the other party. It may also be terminated in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of either party, or if a 40% interest is acquired in one party by a direct and substantial competitor of the other joint venture party. The agreement will also terminate if Sumitomo Chemical acquires 100% of the shares in Sumation. 27 Table of Contents Although we already had a strong research relationship with Sumitomo Chemical, we believe that the strengthening of our relationship through the formation of this joint venture is the most effective way of accelerating P-OLED material development in the future. There can be no assurance, however, that the joint venture will not be terminated or that part or all of our interest in Sumation will not be acquired or that we will be successful in addressing the risks described above or any other problems encountered in connection with our joint venture, whether as a result of potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction or duplication of management and other key talent or additional and unexpected costs and expenses related to technology integration or that could result from cultural differences or as a result of the geographic location of the joint venture in Japan. Risks Relating to our Common Stock and Financial Results Our operating results may have significant period-to-period fluctuations, which would make it difficult to predict our future performance. Due to the current stage of commercialization of our technology and the significant development and manufacturing objectives that we and our licensees must achieve to be successful, our quarterly operating results will be difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not a reliable indicator of our future performance at this time. Among other factors affecting our period-to-period results, our license fees often consist of large one-time payments in the period during which we enter into a new license, followed by smaller recurring payments in later periods, resulting in significant fluctuations in our revenues. We recognize revenues in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and, depending on the exact nature of the deliverables in any agreement, or set of agreements entered into contemporaneously, the recognition of revenues may be substantially delayed following receipt of cash from our customers and may be difficult to predict. If, in some future period, our operating results or business outlook fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price would be likely to decline and investors in our common stock may not be able to resell their shares at or above the price at which they were purchased. Broad market, industry and global economic factors may also materially reduce the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile, as has been the case with the securities of many other emerging growth companies. Factors such as the following may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock in the future: • our operating results and capital resources; • announcements by us or our competitors of technological developments, new product applications or license arrangements; and • other factors affecting the FPD and related industries in general. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies like us. One of our stockholders owns a significant amount of our common stock. If this ownership concentration continues, it could prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. Affiliates of Kelso & Company, or Kelso, beneficially own approximately 40% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Kelso is also represented on our board. As a result, Kelso exercises significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. The concentrated holding of Kelso may result in the delay or deterrence 28 Table of Contents of possible changes in control of our company, which may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. The interests of Kelso and other of our existing stockholders may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to finance the operation and growth of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. Our share price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the possibility of such sales, may adversely affect the price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise capital through the issuance of equity securities. As of February 23, 2007, there were 21,630,703 shares of our common stock outstanding. In addition, we may in the future issue additional shares of our common stock that might be or become freely transferable, including shares that may be issued under additional registration statements that we may file, such as our shelf registration statement described below, upon the exercise of warrants or options or pursuant to our special bonus or other plans. Shares freely transferable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to Rule 144 or otherwise * 12,853,353 59.4 % Shares held by executive officers * 119,517 0.6 % Shares held by Kelso and eligible for sale under Rule 144 * 8,657,833 40.0 % Total shares outstanding at February 23, 2007 21,630,703 100.0 % Shares issuable pursuant to outstanding warrants 659,464 Shares issuable pursuant to outstanding stock options 697,893 Shares issuable pursuant to awards under our special bonus plan 999,705 Shares issuable pursuant to other restricted stock unit awards 751,258 Shares issuable pursuant to other contractual arrangements 256,959 Shares reserved for future grants under stock incentive plans 139,825 * stock held by affiliates is subject to volume, manner of sale, holding period and other limitations of Rule 144. We have registered 6.5 million shares of our common stock with the SEC under a “shelf” registration statement on Form S-3, which covers 3.9 million shares that may be issued and sold by us and 2.6 million outstanding shares that may be sold by certain selling stockholders, including Kelso. We have entered into a contract with Next Sierra, Inc. pursuant to which we are required to file a registration statement with the SEC for 28,551 shares of our common stock which were issued to Next Sierra, Inc. in January 2007 and 256,959 shares which may be issued to them in future. Kelso, which, together with its affiliates, owns an aggregate of approximately 40% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, has rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the unregistered shares that it currently holds or may acquire or to include these shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders, including in connection with our shelf registration statement described above. Sales by Kelso of a substantial number of shares could significantly reduce the market price of our common stock. 29 Table of Contents The price of our common stock can be expected to decrease if we issue additional shares of our common stock that might be or become freely salable, including shares that may be issued under additional registration statements that we may file, such as our proposed shelf registration described above, upon the exercise of warrants or options or pursuant to our special bonus or other plans. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect your rights as a shareholder of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 46,667 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights and preferences determined from time-to-time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without shareholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of stockholders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: • adversely affect the voting power of the stockholders of our common stock; • make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us; • discourage bids for our common stock at a premium; • limit or eliminate any payments that the stockholders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or • otherwise adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may issue additional shares of authorized preferred stock at any time in the future. We are incurring costs as a result of being a public company. We incur significant legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company. We are required to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market. Compliance with these rules and regulations causes us to incur legal, audit and financial compliance costs, and diverts management attention from operations and strategic opportunities. We will incur additional costs in evaluating and reporting on our internal control over financial reporting and having our independent auditors annually attest to our evaluation as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations thereunder, which we expect to commence with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. We are preparing to comply with Section 404 by strengthening, assessing and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our initial report on our internal control over financial reporting. The process of strengthening our internal controls and complying with Section 404 is expensive and time consuming, and it requires significant management attention. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we will maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of our internal controls that require improvement. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent auditors discover a material weakness, the disclosure of the fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, non-compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including the suspension or delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price. We are required to retain independent directors to serve on our board of directors. If vacancies on our board of directors or our audit committee occur that need to be filled by independent directors, we may encounter difficulty in attracting qualified persons to serve on our board, and, in particular, our audit committee. If we fail to attract and retain the required number of independent directors we may be subject to SEC enforcement 30 Table of Contents proceedings and delisting of our common stock from the Nasdaq Global Market. We are also incurring high costs to maintain directors and officers insurance. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. These provisions may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. ITEM 1B. STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 