ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Business and Our Properties Real estate investments are long-term illiquid investments and may be difficult to sell in response to changing economic conditions. Real estate investments are subject to certain inherent risks. Real estate investments are generally long-term investments that cannot be quickly converted to cash. Real estate investments are also subject to adverse changes in general economic conditions or local conditions that may reduce the demand for office, industrial, retail and multi-family residential or other types of properties. Other factors can also affect real estate values, including: ¡ possible international and U.S. federal, state or local regulations and controls affecting rents, prices of goods, fuel and energy consumption and prices, water and environmental restrictions; ¡ increasing labor and material costs; ¡ the perceptions of tenants and prospective tenants of the convenience, attractiveness and safety of our properties; ¡ competition from comparable properties; ¡ the occupancy rate of our properties; ¡ the ability to collect on a timely basis all rents from tenants; ¡ the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies of major tenants; ¡ civil unrest; ¡ acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured losses); ¡ acts of terrorism or war; ¡ rises in operating costs, taxes and insurance costs; ¡ changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funding; and ¡ other factors which are beyond our control. Adverse economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we purchase properties may adversely affect our income and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. Our business may be affected by potential adverse market and economic conditions experienced by the economy or real estate industry as a whole or by local economic conditions in the markets in which our properties are located, including potential dislocations in the credit markets and an elevated rate of unemployment. Adverse economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we buy our properties could affect real estate values in these regions and, to the extent that any of our tenants in these regions rely upon the local economy for their revenues, our tenants’ businesses could also be affected by such conditions. Such economic weakness may reduce demand for space and remove support for rents and property values. A commercial property’s income and value may be adversely affected by national and regional economic conditions, local real estate conditions such as an oversupply of properties or a reduction in demand for properties, availability of “for sale” properties, competition from other similar properties, our ability to provide adequate maintenance, insurance and management services, increased operating costs (including real estate taxes), the attractiveness and location of the property and changes in market rental rates. Changes or fluctuations in energy costs could result in higher operating costs, which may affect our results from operations. Our income will be adversely affected if a significant number of tenants are unable to pay rent or if our properties cannot be rented on favorable terms. Additionally, if tenants of properties that we lease on a triple-net basis fail to pay required tax, utility and other impositions, we could be required to pay those costs, which would adversely affect funds available for future acquisitions or cash available for distributions. Our performance is linked to economic conditions in the regions where our properties are located and in the market for office and industrial (primarily warehouse/distribution/logistics) properties generally. Therefore, to the extent that there are adverse economic conditions in those regions, and in these markets generally, that impact the applicable market rents, such conditions could result in a reduction of our income and cash available for distributions and thus affect the amount of distributions we can make to investors as well as the amounts we could otherwise receive upon a sale of a property in a negatively affected region. 9 Table of Contents Adverse economic conditions affecting the particular industries of our tenants may adversely affect our income and our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders. We are subject to certain industry concentrations with respect to our properties, including the following, which, as of December 31, 2012, accounted for the percentage of our share of annualized base rent as indicated: Financial Services (13.6%); Pharmaceutical & Health Care Related (11.1%); Consumer Products (10.9%); Internet Retail (7.2%); and Defense and Aerospace (6.0%). Adverse economic conditions affecting a particular industry of one or more of our tenants could affect the financial ability of one or more of our tenants to make payments under their leases, which could cause delays in our receipt of rental revenues or a vacancy in one or more of our properties for a period of time. Therefore, changes in economic conditions of the particular industry of one or more of our tenants could reduce our ability to pay dividends and the value of one or more of our properties at the time of sale of such properties. A concentration of our investments in a limited number of property classes may leave our profitability vulnerable to a downturn in such sectors. At any one time, a significant portion of our property investments may be in a limited number of property classes. As of December 31, 2012, a majority of our investments were in two property classes, office (57%) and industrial (primarily warehouse/distribution/logistics) (39%) (based on approximate total acquisition costs, with our unconsolidated properties included our pro rata share of effective ownership, however, excluding our investments in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia). As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in these classes. The potential effects on our revenues, and as a result on cash available for distribution to our shareholders, resulting from a downturn in the business conducted on those properties could be more pronounced than if we had a more diversified portfolio. Geographic concentration of our portfolio may make us particularly susceptible to adverse economic developments in those geographic areas. A concentration of our properties in a particular geographic area may impact our operating results and abilities to make distributions if that area is impacted by negative economic developments. Your investment will be subject to greater risk to the extent that we lack a geographically diversified portfolio. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 43% of our portfolio (based on approximate total acquisition costs, with our unconsolidated properties included at our pro rata share of effective ownership, however, excluding our investments in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia) consisted of properties located in New Jersey (16.1%); Florida (8.5%); Texas (6.9%); Washington, D.C. (5.9%); and Ohio (5.8%). We are particularly susceptible to adverse economic or other conditions in these markets (such as periods of economic slowdown or recession, business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, relocations of businesses, increases in real estate and other taxes and the cost of complying with governmental regulations or increased regulation), as well as to natural disasters that occur in these markets. Our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders would be adversely affected by any significant adverse developments in those markets. We cannot assure you that these markets will grow or that underlying real estate fundamentals will be favorable to owners and operators of properties similar to ours. Our operations may also be affected if competing properties are built in either of these markets. Moreover, submarkets within any of our core markets may be dependent upon a limited number of industries. Our results of operations rely on major tenants and insolvency, bankruptcy or receivership of these or other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. Giving effect to leases in effect as of December 31, 2012 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, as of that date, our five largest tenants, Amazon.com, Inc., Barclays Capital Inc., the U.S. Government, Raytheon Company and JP Morgan Chase together represented approximately 21.5% of our share of annualized base rent. Our rental revenue depends on entering into leases with and collecting rents from tenants. General and regional economic conditions may adversely affect our major tenants and potential tenants in our markets. Our major tenants may experience a material business downturn, weakening their financial condition and potentially resulting in their failure to make timely rental payments and/or a default under their leases. In many cases, we have made substantial up front investments in the applicable leases, through tenant improvement allowances and other concessions, as well as typical transaction costs (including professional fees and commissions) that we may not be able to recover. In the event of any tenant default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment. The bankruptcy or insolvency of a major tenant also may adversely affect the income produced by our properties. If any tenant becomes a debtor in a case under the United States Bankruptcy Code, we cannot evict the tenant solely because of the bankruptcy. In 10 Table of Contents addition, the bankruptcy court might authorize the tenant to reject and terminate their lease with us. The bankruptcy of a tenant or lease guarantor could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. Any unsecured claim we hold may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims, and there are restrictions under bankruptcy laws that limit the amount of the claim we can make if a lease is rejected. Our revenue and cash flow could be materially adversely affected if any of our significant tenants were to become bankrupt or insolvent, or suffer a downturn in their business, default under their leases or fail to renew their leases at all or renew on terms less favorable to us than their current terms. Because we are dependent on our tenants for substantially all of our revenue, our success is materially dependent on the financial stability of our tenants. Lease payment defaults by tenants could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to shareholders. A default of a tenant on its lease payments would cause us to lose the revenue from the property. In the event of such a default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and leasing our property. If a lease is terminated, we cannot assure you that we will be able to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. Further, we may be required to make rent or other concessions to tenants, accommodate requests for renovations, build-to-suit remodeling and other improvements or provide additional services to our tenants. As a result, we may have to make significant capital or other expenditures in order to retain tenants whose leases expire and to attract new tenants in sufficient numbers. A default by a tenant, the failure of a guarantor to fulfill its obligations or other premature termination of a lease, or a tenant’s election not to extend a lease upon its expiration, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to pay distributions. Certain of our properties are occupied by only a single tenant and, therefore, the success of those properties will be materially dependent on the financial stability of such tenants. Current weak economic conditions and the remnants of the credit crisis may put financial pressure on and increase the likelihood of the financial failure of, or other default in payment by, one or more of the tenants to whom we have exposure. We are subject to risks involved in single tenant leases, and the default by one or more tenants could materially and adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 72% (based on approximate total acquisition cost, with our unconsolidated properties included at our pro rata share of effective ownership, however, excluding our investments in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia) of our portfolio consists of single tenant triple net properties. Any of our tenants may experience a downturn in its business at any time that may significantly weaken its financial condition or cause its failure. As a result, such tenant may decline to extend or renew its lease upon expiration, fail to make rental payments when due or declare bankruptcy. The default, financial distress or bankruptcy of a single tenant could cause interruptions in the receipt of rental revenue and/or result in a vacancy, which is likely to result in the complete reduction in the operating cash flows generated by the property leased to that tenant and may decrease the value of that property. In addition, a majority of our leases generally require the tenant to pay all or substantially all of the operating expenses normally associated with the ownership of the property, such as utilities, real estate taxes, insurance and routine maintenance. Following a vacancy at a single-tenant property, we will be responsible for all of the operating costs at such property until it can be re-let, if at all. A property that incurs a significant vacancy could be difficult to sell or lease. A property may incur a vacancy either by the continued default of a tenant under its lease or the expiration of one of our leases. Some of our properties may be specifically suited to the particular needs of the tenant based on the type of business the tenant operates. As of December 31, 2012, leases representing 6.61% of our annualized base rent were scheduled to expire during 2013. We cannot assure you that leases will be renewed or that our properties will be re-let at rental rates equal to or above our current average rental rates or that substantial rent abatements, tenant improvements, early termination rights or below-market renewal options will not be offered to attract new tenants or retain existing tenants. We may have difficulty obtaining a new tenant for any vacant space in our properties, particularly if the space limits the types of businesses that can use the space without major renovation. If a vacancy on any of our properties continues for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash to be distributed to shareholders. In addition, the resale value of the property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property may depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property. 11 Table of Contents If one or more of our tenants file for bankruptcy protection, we may be precluded from collecting all sums due. If one or more of our tenants, or the guarantor of a tenant’s lease, commences, or has commenced against it, any proceeding under any provision of the U.S. federal bankruptcy code, as amended, or any other legal or equitable proceeding under any bankruptcy, insolvency, rehabilitation, receivership or debtor’s relief statute or law (bankruptcy proceeding), we may be unable to collect sums due under relevant leases. Any or all of the tenants, or a guarantor of a tenant’s lease obligations, could be subject to a bankruptcy proceeding. Such a bankruptcy proceeding may bar our efforts to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from these entities or their properties, unless we are able to obtain an enabling order from the bankruptcy court. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would only have a general unsecured claim against the tenant, and may not be entitled to any further payments under the lease. A tenant’s or lease guarantor’s bankruptcy proceeding could hinder or delay efforts to collect past due balances under relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. Such an event could cause a decrease or cessation of rental payments which would mean a reduction in our cash flow and the amount available for distribution to our shareholders. In the event of a bankruptcy proceeding, we cannot assure you that the tenant or its trustee will assume our lease. If a given lease, or guaranty of a lease, is not assumed, our cash flow and the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders may be adversely affected. If our tenants are unable to secure financing necessary to continue to operate their businesses and pay us rent, we could be materially and adversely affected. Many of our tenants rely on external sources of financing to operate their businesses. If our tenants are unable to secure financing necessary to continue to operate their businesses, they may be unable to meet their rent obligations or be forced to declare bankruptcy and reject their leases, which could materially and adversely affect us. Our net leases may require us to pay property related expenses that are not the obligations of our tenants. Under the terms of all of our net leases, in addition to satisfying their rent obligations, our tenants are responsible for the payment of real estate taxes, insurance and ordinary maintenance and repairs. However, under the provisions of future leases with our tenants, we may be required to pay some expenses, such as the costs of environmental liabilities, roof and structural repairs, insurance, certain non-structural repairs and maintenance. If our properties incur significant expenses that must be paid by us under the terms of our leases, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected and the amount of cash available to meet expenses and to make distributions to holders of our common shares may be reduced. We may not have funding for future tenant improvements, which may reduce your returns and make it difficult to attract one or more new tenants. When a tenant at one of our properties does not renew its lease or otherwise vacates its space in one of our buildings, it is likely that, in order to attract one or more new tenants, we will be required to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements and tenant refurbishments to the vacated space and other lease-up costs. Substantially all of our net offering proceeds available for investment has been used for investment in real estate properties. We may maintain working capital reserves but cannot guarantee they will be adequate. We also have no identified funding source to provide funds that may be required in the future for tenant improvements, tenant refurbishments and other lease-up costs in order to attract new tenants. We cannot assure you that any such source of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future and, to the extent we are required to use net cash from operations to fund such tenant improvements, tenant refurbishments and other lease-up costs, cash distributions to our shareholders will be reduced. The actual rents we receive for the properties in our portfolio may be less than our asking rents, and we may experience lease roll down from time to time, which could negatively impact our ability to generate cash flow growth. As a result of various factors, including potential competitive pricing pressure specific to certain submarkets, general economic weakness and the desirability of our properties compared to other properties in our submarkets, we may be unable to realize the asking rents across the properties in our portfolio. In addition, the degree of discrepancy between our asking rents and the actual rents we are able to obtain may vary both from property to property and among different leased spaces within a single property. If we are unable to obtain rental rates that are on average comparable to our asking rents across our portfolio, then our ability to generate cash flow growth will be negatively impacted. In addition, depending on asking rental rates at any given time as compared to expiring leases in our portfolio, from time to time rental rates for expiring leases may be higher than starting rental rates for new leases. 12 Table of Contents We will be subject to additional risks as a result of any joint ventures. We have entered, and may in the future enter, into joint ventures for the acquisition, development or improvement of properties. We have purchased and developed, and may in the future purchase and develop, properties in joint ventures or in partnerships, co-tenancies or other co-ownership arrangements with sellers of properties, affiliates of sellers, developers or other persons. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with an investment in real estate, including, for example: ¡ the possibility that our co-venturer, co-tenant or partner in an investment might become bankrupt; ¡ that maturities of debt encumbering our jointly owned investments may not be able to be refinanced at all or on terms that are as favorable as the current terms; ¡ that such co-venturer, co-tenant or partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals which are or become inconsistent with our business interests or goals, including inconsistent goals relating to the sale of properties owned by such co-venturer, co-tenant or partner or the timing of the termination and liquidation of such party; ¡ the possibility that we may incur impairments and liabilities as the result of actions taken by the controlling party; ¡ that such co-venturer, co-tenant or partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives; or ¡ that we will not manage the properties, or be able to select the management for the property, that a joint venture owns. Actions by such a co-venturer, co-tenant or partner might have the result of subjecting the property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and may have the effect of reducing your returns. We have ownership interests in five unconsolidated entities that, as of December 31, 2012, owned interests in 54 properties (which such amount does not reflect the 17 Duke joint venture properties that CSP OP acquired 100% of the interests in during March 2013). It may be difficult for us to exit a joint venture after an impasse. In our joint ventures, there will be a potential risk of impasse in some business decisions because our approval and the approval of each co-venturer may be required for some significant operating decisions. In any joint venture, we may have the right to buy all or a portion of the other co-venturer’s interest or to sell all or a portion of our own interest on specified terms and conditions in the event of an impasse. In the event of an impasse, it is possible that neither party will have the funds necessary to complete a buy-out. In addition, we may experience difficulty in locating a third-party purchaser for our joint venture interest and in obtaining a favorable sale price for the interest or, in certain cases, may require the prior written consent of the general partner or managing member of the venture. As a result, it is possible that we may not be able to exit the relationship if an impasse develops. If third party managers providing property management services for certain of our properties or their personnel are negligent in their performance of, or default on, their management obligations, our tenants may not renew their leases or we may become subject to unforeseen liabilities. If this occurs, our financial condition and operating results, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all, could be substantially harmed. We have entered into agreements with third party management companies to provide property management services for certain of our properties, and we expect to enter into similar agreements with respect to properties we acquire in the future. We cannot supervise these third party managers and their personnel on a day-to-day basis and we cannot assure you that they will manage our properties in a manner that is consistent with their obligations under our agreements, that they will not be negligent in their performance or engage in other criminal or fraudulent activity, or that these managers will not otherwise default on their management obligations to us. If any of the foregoing occurs, our relationships with our tenants could be damaged, which may prevent the tenants from renewing their leases, and we could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to our properties or to persons at our properties. If we are unable to lease our properties or we become subject to significant liabilities as a result of third party management performance issues, our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders, could be adversely affected. Development and construction of our properties may result in delays and increased costs and risks. We have invested, and may in the future invest, some or all of the net proceeds available for investment in the acquisition and development of properties upon which we (or a joint venture partner) will develop and construct improvements. We will be subject to the following risks associated with such development and redevelopment activities: ¡ unsuccessful development or redevelopment opportunities could result in direct expenses to us; 13 Table of Contents ¡ construction or redevelopment costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project less profitable than originally estimated, or unprofitable; ¡ time required to complete the construction or redevelopment of a project or to lease up the completed project may be greater than originally anticipated, thereby adversely affecting our cash flow and liquidity; ¡ contractor and subcontractor disputes, strikes, labor disputes or supply disruptions; ¡ the builder’s failure to perform may necessitate legal action by us to rescind the purchase or the construction contract or to compel performance; ¡ we may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to such builders prior to completion of construction; ¡ failure to achieve expected occupancy and/or rent levels within the projected time frame, if at all (delays in completion of construction could also give tenants the right to terminate pre-construction leases for space at a newly developed project); ¡ delays with respect to obtaining or the inability to obtain necessary zoning, occupancy, land use and other governmental permits, and changes in zoning and land use laws; ¡ occupancy rates and rents of a completed project may not be sufficient to make the project profitable; ¡ if our projections of rental income and expenses and estimates of the fair market value of a property upon completion of construction are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property; ¡ our ability to dispose of properties developed or redeveloped with the intent to sell could be impacted by the ability of prospective buyers to obtain financing given the current state of the credit markets; and ¡ the availability and pricing of financing to fund our development activities on favorable terms or at all. Factors such as those discussed above can result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment, which could adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, we may not be able to find suitable tenants to lease our newly constructed projects. Furthermore, we must rely upon projections of rental income and expenses and estimates of the fair market value of a property upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a price to be paid for the property at the time of acquisition of the property. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property. Retail properties depend on anchor tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the loss of a key anchor tenant. We have acquired, and may in the future acquire, properties with retail components. As with all rental properties, we are subject to the risk that tenants may be unable to make their lease payments or may decline to extend a lease upon its expiration. A lease termination by a tenant that occupies a large area of a retail center (commonly referred to as an anchor tenant) could impact leases of other tenants. Other tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of a lease termination by an anchor tenant, or the closure of the business of an anchor tenant that leaves its space vacant even if the anchor tenant continues to pay rent. Any such modifications or conditions could be unfavorable to us as the property owner and could decrease rents, expense recoveries or the market value of the property. Additionally, major tenant closures may result in decreased customer traffic, which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. In the event of a default by a tenant or anchor store, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties. We are subject to risks that affect the general retail environment, such as weakness in the economy, the level of consumer spending, the adverse financial condition of large retailing companies and competition from discount and internet retailers, any of which could adversely affect market rents for retail space and the willingness or ability of retailers to lease space in our properties. Certain of our properties are in the retail real estate market. This means that we are subject to factors that affect the retail sector generally, as well as the market for retail space. The retail environment and the market for retail space have been, and could continue to be, adversely affected by weakness in the national, regional and local economies, the level of consumer spending and consumer confidence, the adverse financial condition of some large retailing companies, the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector, the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets and increasing competition from discount retailers, outlet malls, internet retailers and other online businesses. Increases in consumer spending via the internet may significantly affect our retail tenants’ ability to generate sales in their stores. New and enhanced technologies, including new digital technologies and new web services technologies, may increase competition for certain of our retail tenants. 14 Table of Contents Any of the foregoing factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space. In turn, these conditions could negatively affect market rents for retail space and could materially and adversely affect our distributions to our shareholders. Competition for investments may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase costs of those acquisitions, which may impede our growth. The current market for acquisitions that meet our investment criteria is extremely competitive. We experience competition for such real property investments from corporations, other real estate investment trusts, pension plans and other entities engaged in real estate investment activities. This competition may increase the demand for the types of properties in which we typically invest and, therefore, reduce the number of suitable acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the prices paid for such acquisition properties. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investments may increase. This competition will increase if investments in real estate become more attractive relative to other forms of investment. Any such increase would result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. The significant competition for acquisitions may impede our growth. Uncertain market conditions could adversely affect the return on your investment. We intend to hold the various real properties in which we invest until such time as we, subject to the approval of our Board of Trustees, determine that the sale or other disposition thereof appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives or until it appears that such objectives will not be met. We cannot predict with any certainty the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future. Due to the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our properties, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our properties at a profit in the future. Accordingly, the extent to which you will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will be dependent upon fluctuating market conditions. General economic conditions may affect the timing of the sale of our properties and the purchase price we receive. We may be unable to sell a property if or when we decide to do so. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, the availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand for real estate investments, all of which are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on terms that are acceptable to us. Further, we cannot predict the length of time that will be needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions, which could result in shareholder dilution and limit our ability to sell such assets. In the future we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for partnership interests in our operating partnership, which may result in shareholder dilution. This acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to protect the contributors’ ability to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties and/or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. These restrictions could limit our ability to sell an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions. We may acquire or finance properties with lock-out provisions, which may prohibit us from selling a property, or may require us to maintain specified debt levels for a period of years on some properties. Lock-out provisions, which preclude pre-payments of a loan, could materially restrict us from selling or otherwise disposing of or refinancing properties. These provisions would affect our ability to turn our investments into cash and thus affect cash available for distributions to investors. Lock-out provisions may prohibit us from reducing the outstanding indebtedness with respect to any properties, refinancing such indebtedness on a non-recourse basis at maturity, or increasing the amount of indebtedness with respect to such properties. Lock-out provisions could impair our ability to take other actions during the lock-out period that could be in the best interests of our shareholders and, therefore, may have an adverse impact on the value of the shares, relative to the value that would result if the lock-out provisions did not exist. In particular, lock-out provisions could preclude us from participating in major transactions that could result in a disposition of our assets or a change in control even though that disposition or change in control might be in the best interests of our shareholders. Further, if we sell properties by providing financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers would adversely affect our cash flows and negatively impact our ability to pay cash distributions to our shareholders. 15 Table of Contents We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property and would have only limited recourse in the event our due diligence did not identify any issues that lower the value of our property. The seller of a property often sells such property in its “as is” condition on a “where is” basis and “with all faults,” without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, purchase agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property as well as the loss of rental income from that property. We may experience a decline in the fair value of our assets, which may have a material impact on our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. A decline in the fair market value of our assets may require us to recognize a permanent impairment against such assets under GAAP if we were to determine that, we do not have the ability and intent to hold such assets to maturity or for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery to the amortized cost of such assets. If such a determination were to be made, we would recognize unrealized losses through earnings and write down the amortized cost of such assets to a new cost basis, based on the fair value of such assets on the date they are considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Such impairment charges reflect non-cash losses at the time of recognition; subsequent disposition or sale of such assets could further affect our future losses or gains, as they are based on the difference between the sale price received and adjusted amortized cost of such assets at the time of sale. We may become subject to litigation, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may become subject to litigation, including claims relating to our operations, offerings, and otherwise in the ordinary course of business. Some of these claims may result in significant defense costs and potentially significant judgments against us, some of which are not, or cannot be, insured against. We generally intend to defend ourselves vigorously; however, we cannot be certain of the ultimate outcomes of any claims that may arise in the future. Resolution of these types of matters against us may result in our having to pay significant fines, judgments, or settlements, which, if uninsured, or if the fines, judgments, and settlements exceed insured levels, could adversely impact our earnings and cash flows, thereby having an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Certain litigation or the resolution of certain litigation may affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, and/or adversely impact our ability to attract officers and trustees. Real estate related taxes may increase and if these increases are not passed on to tenants, our income will be reduced. Some local real property tax assessors may seek to reassess some of our properties as a result of our acquisition of the property. Generally, from time to time our property taxes increase as property values or assessment rates change or for other reasons deemed relevant by the assessors. An increase in the assessed valuation of a property for real estate tax purposes will result in an increase in the related real estate taxes on that property. In some areas where we have properties, declines in other tax revenues for the states are resulting in the states considering increases to future property and other business related tax rates. Although some tenant leases may permit us to pass through such tax increases to the tenants for payment, there is no assurance that renewal leases or future leases will be negotiated on the same basis. Increases not passed through to tenants will adversely affect our income, cash available for distributions, and the amount of distributions to investors. If we purchase environmentally hazardous property, our operating results could be adversely affected. Under various U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. In connection with the acquisition and ownership of our properties, we may be potentially liable for such costs. The cost of defending against claims of liability, complying with environmental regulatory requirements or remediating any contaminated property could have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to you. Any costs or expenses relating to environmental matters may not be covered by insurance. 16 Table of Contents Uninsured losses relating to real property may adversely affect your returns. In the event that any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by any such uninsured loss. In addition, we may have limited funding to repair or reconstruct the damaged property, and we cannot assure you that any such source of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future. Furthermore, insurance may be unavailable or uneconomical. In particular, insurance coverage relating to flood or earthquake damage or terrorist acts may not be available or affordable. We may incur significant costs complying with various federal, state and local laws, regulations and covenants that are applicable to our properties and, in particular costs associated with complying with regulations such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses. The properties in our portfolio are subject to various covenants and U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulatory requirements, including permitting and licensing requirements. Local regulations, including municipal or local ordinances, zoning restrictions and restrictive covenants imposed by community developers may restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials or restrict our use of our properties and may require us to obtain approval from local officials of community standards organizations at any time with respect to our properties, including prior to acquiring a property or when undertaking renovations of any of our existing properties. Among other things, these restrictions may relate to fire and safety, seismic or hazardous material abatement requirements. There can be no assurance that existing laws and regulatory policies will not adversely affect us or the timing or cost of any future acquisitions or renovations, or that additional regulations will not be adopted that increase such delays or result in additional costs. Our growth strategy may be affected by our ability to obtain permits, licenses and zoning relief. Our failure to obtain such permits, licenses and zoning relief or to comply with applicable laws could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain U.S. federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties, or restrict further renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. For example, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, or FHAA, requires apartment properties first occupied after March 13, 1991 to be accessible to the handicapped. On March 15, 2011, final regulations implementing a substantial number of changes to the Accessibility Guidelines under the ADA became effective. These new guidelines could cause some of our properties to incur costly measures to become fully compliant. Noncompliance with the ADA or the FHAA could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. We do not conduct audits or investigations of all of these properties to determine their compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA, the FHAA or other legislation. If one or more of our properties in which we invest is not in compliance with the ADA, the FHAA or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and the FHAA or other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, price per share of our common shares and our ability to satisfy debt service obligations and to pay distributions could be adversely affected. If we make or invest in mortgage loans, our mortgage loans may be impacted by unfavorable real estate market conditions, which could decrease the value of our mortgage investments. If we make or invest in mortgage loans, we will be at risk of defaults by the borrowers on those mortgage loans. These defaults may be caused by many conditions beyond our control, including interest rate levels and local and other economic conditions affecting real estate values. We will not know whether the values of the properties securing the mortgage loans will remain at the levels existing on the dates of origination of the mortgage loans. If the values of the underlying properties drop, our risk will increase because of the lower value of the security associated with such loans. If we invest in mortgage loans, our mortgage loans will be subject to interest rate fluctuations which could reduce our returns as compared to market interest rates as well as the value of the mortgage loans in the event we sell the mortgage loans. If we invest in fixed-rate, long-term mortgage loans and interest rates rise, the mortgage loans could yield a return that is lower than then-current market rates. If interest rates decrease, we will be adversely affected to the extent that mortgage loans are prepaid, because we may not be able to make new loans at the previously higher interest rate. If we invest in variable interest rate loans, if interest rates decrease, our revenues will likewise decrease. Finally, if interest rates increase, the value of loans we own at such time would decrease which would lower the proceeds we would receive in the event we sell such loans. 17 Table of Contents Your investment may be subject to additional risks when we make international investments. We purchase properties located outside the United States. These investments may be affected by factors peculiar to the laws and business practices of the jurisdictions in which the properties are located. These laws may expose us to risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the United States. Foreign investments could be subject to the following risks: ¡ changing governmental rules and policies, including changes in land use and zoning laws; ¡ enactment of laws relating to the foreign ownership of real property and laws restricting the ability of foreign persons or companies to remove profits earned from activities within the country to the person’s or company’s country of origin; ¡ fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely impact the fair values and earnings streams of our international holdings and, therefore, the returns on our non-dollar denominated investments. Although we may hedge our foreign currency risk subject to the REIT income qualification tests, it is possible that we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations; ¡ adverse market conditions caused by terrorism, civil unrest, natural disasters and changes in national or local governmental or economic conditions; ¡ the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to make mortgage loans in certain countries and changes in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds resulting from varying national economic policies; ¡ the imposition of unique tax structures and changes in real estate and other tax rates and other operating expenses in particular countries; ¡ our ability to qualify as a REIT may be affected; and ¡ general political and economic instability. Although our international activities currently are a relatively small portion of our business (international properties represented approximately 12% of the net rentable square feet of all of our properties at December 31, 2012), to the extent that we expand our international activities, these risks could increase in significance which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Delays in liquidating defaulted mortgage loans could reduce our investment returns. If there are defaults under mortgage loans that we may make or invest in, we may not be able to repossess and sell the underlying properties quickly. The resulting time delay could reduce the value of our investment in the defaulted mortgage loans. An action to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan is regulated by state statutes and rules and is subject to many of the delays and expenses of other lawsuits if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims. In the event of default by a mortgagor, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the mortgage loan. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our common shares, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and your investment. We cannot assure you that there will not be terrorist attacks in the localities in which we conduct business. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our asset-based securities or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of the property underlying our asset-backed securities or the securities markets in general which could harm our operating results and revenues. Your investment return may be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. We do not intend to invest in marketable securities, and we do not intend to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, (the “Investment Company Act”). If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things: ¡ limitations on capital structure; ¡ restrictions on specified investments; 18 Table of Contents ¡ prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and ¡ compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses. In general, we expect to be able to rely on the exemption from registration provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. In order to qualify for this exemption, at least 55% of our portfolio must be comprised of real property and mortgages and other liens on an interest in real estate (collectively, “qualifying assets”) and at least 80% of our portfolio must be comprised of real estate-related assets. Qualifying assets include mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans and other interests in real estate. In order to maintain our exemption from registering as an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we must continue to engage primarily in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring real estate. To maintain compliance with the exemption from registration provided by section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, we may be unable to sell assets we would otherwise want to sell, and may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional income or loss generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forego opportunities to acquire interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire and would be important to our investment strategy. If we were required to register as an investment company, our business would be adversely affected and we would be prohibited from engaging in our business as currently contemplated because the Investment Company Act imposes significant limitations on leverage. Criminal and civil actions could also be brought against us if we failed to comply with the Investment Company Act. In addition, our contracts could be unenforceable (unless a court in equity were to require enforcement), and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. Although we intend to monitor our portfolio, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our exemption from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. Further, in August of 2011, the SEC solicited public comment on a wide range of issues relating to Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, including the nature of the assets that qualify for purposes of the exemption and leverage used by mortgage related vehicles. There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the Investment Company Act status of companies primarily owning real estate related assets, including the SEC or its staff providing more specific or different guidance regarding this exemption, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. To the extent that the SEC or its staff provides more specific or different guidance, we may be required to adjust our strategy accordingly. Any additional guidance from the SEC staff could provide additional flexibility to us, or it could further inhibit our ability to pursue the strategies we have chosen. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure We have limited experience operating as a self-managed company, which makes our future performance difficult to predict. As a result of our transition to self-management, we may be exposed to risks which we have not historically encountered. We have a limited operating history as a self-managed company. Historically, all of our business activities were managed by our former investment advisor pursuant to the fourth amended and restated advisory agreement, which terminated according to its terms on June 30, 2012. As a result, our future performance as a self-managed company is more difficult to predict. In addition, as of December 31, 2012, we had 23 full-time employees. As their employer, we will be subject to those potential liabilities that are commonly faced by employers, such as workers’ disability and compensation claims, potential labor disputes, and other employee-related liabilities and grievances, and we will bear the costs of the establishment and maintenance of such plans. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain key personnel, each of whom would be difficult to replace. If we were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of one or more of these individuals, our operating results could suffer. We rely on a small number of persons who comprise our existing key management team to implement our business and investment strategies. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to make distributions to our shareholders is dependent upon the continued performance of our Board of Trustees and our key management personnel. While we entered into employment agreements with certain of our key management personnel, they may nevertheless cease to provide services to us at any time. In addition, if any member of our Board of Trustees were to resign, we would lose the benefit of such trustee’s governance and experience. The loss of services of any of our key management personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our common shares are not currently listed on an exchange and cannot be readily sold. There is currently no public trading market for our shares and, therefore, it will be difficult for you to sell your shares promptly. We cannot assure you that any trading market will develop or, if developed, that any such market will be sustained. We do not expect a 19 Table of Contents public market for our common shares to develop prior to any listing of our shares on a national securities exchange, which may not occur in the near future or at all. Additionally, our declaration of trust contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our shares, and these restrictions may inhibit your ability to sell your shares. We currently have a share redemption program, however, it is limited in terms of the amount of shares which may be repurchased quarterly and annually and may be limited, suspended, terminated or amended at any time by our Board of Trustees. We are conducting an ongoing review of potential alternatives for our share redemption program, which may include the suspension or termination of the plan. The absence of an active public market for our shares could impair a shareholder’s ability to sell our shares or obtain an active trading market valuation of the value of their interest in us. If our existing shareholders are able to sell their shares, they may only be able to sell them at a substantial discount from the price they paid. We sold our common shares in a fixed price offering, and are currently selling shares pursuant to our second amended and restated dividend reinvestment plan in a fixed price offering. The fixed offering price may not accurately represent the current value of our assets at any particular time; therefore, the purchase price paid for our common shares may be higher than the value of our assets per common share at the time of purchase. Our public offerings were fixed price offerings, which means that the offering price for our common shares was fixed and did not vary based on the underlying value of our assets at any time. Our Board of Trustees arbitrarily determined the offering price in its sole discretion. Shares in our public offerings were sold at a price per share of $10.00 and shares were sold pursuant to our dividend reinvestment plan at a price of $9.50 per share. In the dividend reinvestment plan offering, shares are currently sold at a price of $9.50 per share. In the event that our Board of Trustees determines that the fair market value of our common shares has changed, common shares will thereafter be sold pursuant to the dividend reinvestment plan at a price determined by our Board of Trustees, which price shall not be less than 95% of the fair market value of a common share on the reinvestment date (including any administrative costs paid by us on participants’ behalf) as so determined. Additionally, our Board of Trustees may amend or terminate our dividend reinvestment plan for any reason and at any time upon ten days prior written notice to participants. On or before July 30, 2013, we will be required to estimate the value of our common shares per share to assist broker-dealers in connection with their obligations under applicable Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) rules with respect to customer account statements and to assist fiduciaries of retirement plans subject to annual reporting requirements of the employee retirement income security act (“ERISA”) in preparation of their reports. The fixed offering price for our common shares does not reflect and continues not to reflect, and is not derived from, the fair market value of our properties and other assets nor does it represent the amount of net proceeds that would result from an immediate liquidation of those assets, because the amount of proceeds available for investment from our public offerings was net of selling commissions, dealer manager fees, other organization and offering costs and acquisition fees and expenses. Further, the fixed price of our common shares at any time does not take into account how market fluctuations affect the value of our investments, including how the current disruptions in the financial and real estate markets may affect the values of our investments and how developments related to individual assets may have increased or decreased the value of our portfolio. Therefore, the fixed offering price established for our common shares may not accurately represent the current or future value of the assets per share of our common shares at any particular time, and if valuation were to occur, the value per share may be less than the price for which such shares were sold. Restrictions on ownership of a controlling percentage of our shares may limit your opportunity to receive a premium on your shares. To assist us in complying with the share ownership requirements necessary for us to qualify as a REIT, our declaration of trust currently prohibits, with certain exceptions, direct or constructive ownership by any person of more than 3.0% by number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding common shares or more than 3.0% by number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares. Our Board of Trustees, in its sole discretion, may exempt a person from the share ownership limit. Additionally, our declaration of trust prohibits direct or constructive ownership of our shares that would otherwise result in our failure to qualify as a REIT. The constructive ownership rules in our declaration of trust are complex and may cause the outstanding shares owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than any ownership limit by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of any ownership limit of our outstanding shares. Any attempt to own or transfer our shares in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of our Board of Trustees shall be void, and will result in the shares being transferred to a charitable trust. These provisions may inhibit market activity and the resulting opportunity for our shareholders to receive a premium for their shares that might otherwise exist if any person were to attempt to assemble a block of our shares in excess of the number of shares permitted under our declaration of trust and which may be in the best interests of our shareholders. 20 Table of Contents Maryland takeover statutes could restrict a change of control, which could have the affect of inhibiting a change in control even if a change in control were in our shareholders’ interests. Under Maryland law, certain “business combinations” between a Maryland REIT and an interested shareholder or an affiliate of an interested shareholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or asset transfers or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested shareholder is defined as: ¡ any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our company’s shares; or ¡ an affiliate or associate of our company who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting shares of our company. A person is not an interested shareholder under the statute if our Board of Trustees approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested shareholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland REIT and an interested shareholder generally must be recommended by our Board of Trustees and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: ¡ 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting shares of our company; and ¡ 66% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting shares of our company other than shares held by the interested shareholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or by the interested shareholder’s affiliates or associates, voting together as a single group. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders. Our Board of Trustees has adopted a resolution exempting our company from the provisions of the Maryland General Corporate Law (the “MGCL”) relating to business combinations with interested shareholders or affiliates of interested shareholders. However, such resolution can be altered or repealed, in whole or in part, at any time by our Board of Trustees. If such resolution is repealed, the business combination statute could have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and of increasing the difficulty of consummating these offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders’ best interests. Maryland law also limits the ability of a third-party to buy a large stake in us and exercise voting power in electing trustees. The MGCL, as applicable to REITs, provides that “control shares” of a Maryland real estate investment trust acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquire, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. “Control shares” are voting shares that would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing trustees within specified ranges of voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained shareholder approval. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares. The control share acquisition statute does not apply (i) to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if we are a party to the transaction, or (ii) to acquisitions approved or exempted by our declaration of trust or bylaws. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares. We cannot assure you that such provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. If such provision is eliminated, the control share acquisition statute could have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders’ best interests. Our existing shareholders are limited in their ability to sell their shares pursuant to our share redemption program. Our share redemption program currently provides our existing shareholders with the opportunity, on a quarterly basis, to request that we redeem all or a portion of their shares after they have held them for one year, subject to certain restrictions and limitations. In the event that an existing shareholder presents fewer than all of his or her shares to us for redemption, such shareholder must present at least 25% of his or her shares to us for redemption and must retain at least $5,000 of common shares if any shares are held after such redemption. Shares are redeemed only to the extent of cash available after the payment of dividends necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT and to avoid the payment of any U.S. federal income tax or excise tax on our net taxable income or from, at the sole discretion of our Board of Trustees, other sources. This will significantly limit our ability to redeem a shareholder’s shares. To the 21 Table of Contents extent our available cash flow is insufficient to fund all redemption requests, each shareholder’s request will be reduced on a pro rata basis, unless he or she withdraws a request for redemption or ask that we carry over the request to the next quarterly period, if any, when sufficient funds become available. Our Board of Trustees reserves the right to suspend, amend or terminate the share redemption program at any time. We are conducting an ongoing review of potential alternatives for our share redemption program, which may include the suspension or termination of the plan. Our Board of Trustees has delegated to our officers the right to waive the one-year holding period and pro rata redemption requirements in the event of the death, disability (as such term is defined in the Internal Revenue Code) or bankruptcy of a shareholder. A shareholder has no right to request redemption of his or her shares should our shares become listed on a national securities exchange, the NASDAQ Global Select Market or the NASDAQ Global Market. Therefore, a shareholder should not assume that he or she will be able to sell any of his or her shares back to us pursuant to our share redemption program. We pay (or may pay) fees and expenses to our former investment advisor and its affiliates under agreements, which payments reduce the amount of cash available for investment in properties or distribution to shareholders. Our former investment advisor and its affiliates continue to perform certain consulting, support and transitional services for us in accordance with the terms of the transitional services agreement as requested by us from time to time, which expires on April 30, 2013. To the extent that these services are performed by our former investment advisor or one of its affiliates, we may pay an investment management consulting fee, an acquisition consulting fee, property management, leasing and construction fees and a real estate commission fee upon the sale of a property, all subject to adjustment in certain instances, as applicable to our former investment advisor or its affiliates. We also reimburse our former investment advisor for certain expenses incurred or paid in connection with the services it provides to us under the transitional services agreement. Further, until June 30, 2017, if we attempt to effect certain types of transactions, including, but not limited to, a merger, consolidation or the sale of 10% of more of our business, assets or voting securities, we have agreed under our transition to self-management agreement to engage CBRE Global Investors, LLC, our former sponsor, or an affiliate of our former sponsor to provide financial advice and assistance in connection therewith provided that such entity continues to have the sufficient expertise and resources to provide such financial advice or assistance. Additionally, we also have issued to an affiliate of our former investment advisor one class B limited partnership interest (representing 100% of the class B interest outstanding) in CSP OP, which certain of our executive officers own an aggregate 15% distribution interest. For a description of the class B limited partnership interest, See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements “Investment Management and Other Fees to Related Parties.” These fees and partnership interest distributions reduce the amount of cash available for investment in properties or distribution to shareholders. We may be unable to pay or maintain cash distributions or increase distributions over time. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to shareholders. Cash distributions will be based principally on cash available from our operations. The amount of the distributions we make to our shareholders is determined by our Board of Trustees, at its sole discretion, and is dependent on a number of factors, including cash available for payment of distributions, our financial condition, and capital expenditure requirements and annual distribution requirements needed to maintain our qualification as a REIT, as well as any liquidity event options we may pursue. The amount of cash available for distributions is affected by many factors, such as our ability to buy properties as proceeds become available, rental income from such properties, our operating expense levels, as well as many other variables. Actual cash available for distributions may vary substantially from estimates. Our Board of Trustees may reduce the amount of distributions paid at any time, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to pay or maintain the level of distributions we have historically paid or that distributions will increase over time. We cannot give any assurance that rents from the properties will increase, or that future acquisitions of real properties or other real estate assets will increase our cash available for distributions to shareholders. Our actual results may differ significantly from the assumptions used by our Board of Trustees in establishing the distribution rate to shareholders. We may not have sufficient legally available cash from operations to make a distribution required to qualify for or maintain our REIT status. We may increase borrowings or use proceeds from our public offerings to make distributions, each of which could be deemed to be a return of investors’ capital. We may make distributions from the proceeds of our public offerings or from borrowings in anticipation of future cash flow. Any such distributions will constitute a return of capital and may reduce the amount of capital we ultimately invest in properties and negatively impact the value of investors’ investment. The amount and timing of cash dividends is uncertain. In the past we have made quarterly distributions to our shareholders. Subject to certain limitations, we bear all expenses incurred in our operations, which reduces cash generated by operations and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, our Board of Trustees, in its discretion, may retain any portion of such funds for working capital, subject to the REIT distribution requirements. We have not set any future dividend payment amount and cannot guarantee the amount and timing of distributions paid in the future, if any. 22 Table of Contents We are uncertain of our sources for funding of future capital needs. In the event that we develop a need for additional capital in the future for the improvement of our assets or for any other reason, we will need to identify sources for such funding, other than reserves we may establish, and we cannot assure you that such sources of funding will be available to us for capital needs in the future. We are authorized to issue preferred shares. The issuance of preferred shares could adversely affect the holders of our common shares issued pursuant to our public offerings. Our declaration of trust authorizes us to issue 1,000,000,000 shares, of which 10,000,000 shares are designated as preferred shares. Subject to approval by our Board of Trustees, we may issue preferred shares with rights, preferences, and privileges that are more beneficial than the rights, preferences, and privileges of our common shares. Holders of our common shares do not have preemptive rights to acquire any shares issued by us in the future. If we ever create and issue preferred shares with a distribution preference over common shares, payment of any distribution preferences on outstanding preferred shares would reduce the amount of funds available for the payment of distributions on our common shares. In addition, holders of preferred shares are normally entitled to receive a preference payment in the event we liquidate, dissolve or wind up before any payment is made to our common shareholders, thereby reducing the amount a common shareholder might otherwise receive upon such an occurrence. Also, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred shares may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Our Board of Trustees may change our investment policies without shareholder approval, which could alter the nature of investors’ investments. Our declaration of trust requires that our independent trustees review our investment policies at least annually to determine that the policies we are following are in the best interest of the shareholders. These policies may change over time. The methods of implementing our investment policies may also vary, as new real estate development trends emerge and new investment techniques are developed. Our investment policies, the methods for their implementation, and our other objectives, policies and procedures may be altered by our Board of Trustees without the approval of our shareholders. As a result, the nature of investors’ investments could change without investors’ consent. If we fail to maintain an effective system of integrated internal controls, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are required to report our operations on a consolidated basis under GAAP and, in some cases, on a property-by-property basis. If we fail to maintain proper overall business controls, our results of operations could be harmed or we could fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, the existence of a material weakness or significant deficiency could result in errors in our financial statements that could require a restatement, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause shareholders to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on us. In the case of joint ventures, we may also be subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputation damage relating to, overall business controls, that are not under our control which could have a material adverse effect of us. Changes in accounting rules, assumptions and/or judgments could materially and adversely affect us. Accounting rules for certain aspects of our and our joint ventures operations are highly complex and involve significant judgment and assumptions. These complexities could lead to a delay in the preparation of our or our joint ventures financial statements and the delivery of this information to our shareholders. Furthermore, changes in accounting rules or in our accounting assumptions and/or judgments, such as asset impairments, could materially impact our financial statements. Under any of these circumstances, we could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Debt Financing Dislocations or volatility in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect us. Dislocations or volatility in the financial markets have the potential to affect, particularly in the near term, the value of our properties and our investments in unconsolidated joint ventures, the availability or the terms of financing that we and our unconsolidated joint ventures have or may anticipate utilizing, the ability of us and our unconsolidated joint ventures to make principal and interest payments on or refinance any outstanding debt when due. It may also impact the ability of our tenants and potential tenants to enter into new leases or satisfy rental payments under existing leases. Capital market dislocations or volatility may potentially cause certain financial institutions to fail or to seek federal assistance. In the event of a failure of a lender or counterparty to a financial contract, 23 Table of Contents obligations under the financial contract might not be honored and many forms of assets may be at risk and may not be fully returned to us. Should a financial institution fail to fund its committed amounts when contractually obligated to do so, our ability to meet our obligations could be materially and adversely impacted. We could become more highly leveraged and an increase in debt service could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make distributions. We had approximately $761,875,000 of consolidated outstanding indebtedness, excluding discount and fair value adjustment, representing approximately 46% of our net assets (or approximately 37% of the approximate total acquisition cost of our consolidated properties, including intangibles) as of December 31, 2012. Although we have adopted a policy to limit our aggregate borrowing to no more than 65% of the cost of our assets before non-cash reserves and depreciation, subject to the 300% of net assets borrowing restriction described below, this policy may be altered at any time or suspended by our Board of Trustees if necessary to pursue attractive investment opportunities. Our declaration of trust currently contains a limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur, so that until our shares are listed on a national securities exchange, our aggregate borrowing may not exceed 300% of our net assets unless any excess borrowing is approved by a majority of our independent trustees and is disclosed to shareholders in our next quarterly report. Our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could have significant adverse consequences, including the following: ¡ our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; ¡ we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, which could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to meet operational needs; ¡ we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; ¡ we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on unfavorable terms or in violation of certain covenants to which we may be subject; ¡ we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; and ¡ our default under any loan with cross default provisions could result in a default on other indebtedness. If we become more highly leveraged, then the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on outstanding indebtedness and to pay our anticipated distributions and/or the distributions required to qualify as a REIT, and could harm our financial condition. Our growth depends on external sources of capital that are outside of our control, which may affect our ability to seize strategic opportunities, satisfy debt obligations and make distributions to our shareholders. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must distribute to our shareholders, on an annual basis, at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains. In addition, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income (including net capital gains) and will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount by which our distributions in any calendar year are less than a minimum amount specified under U.S. federal income tax laws. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we may need to rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms, in the time period we desire, or at all. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: ¡ general market conditions; ¡ the market’s perception of our growth potential; ¡ our current debt levels; ¡ our current and expected future earnings; and ¡ our cash flow and cash distributions. 24 Table of Contents If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire or redevelop properties when strategic opportunities exist, satisfy our principal and interest obligations or make the cash distributions to our shareholders necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Our unsecured credit facility will restrict our ability to engage in some business activities, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness in excess of agreed amounts and make certain investments, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Our unsecured credit facility contains customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, among other things: ¡ restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness in excess of agreed amounts; ¡ restrict our ability to incur certain types of liens; ¡ restrict our ability to make certain investments; ¡ restrict our ability to merge with another company; ¡ restrict our ability to sell or dispose of assets; ¡ restrict our ability to make distributions to shareholders; and ¡ require us to satisfy minimum financial coverage ratios, minimum tangible net worth requirements and maximum leverage ratios. These limitations will restrict our ability to engage in some business activities, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. In addition, our unsecured credit facility contains specific cross-default provisions with respect to specified other indebtedness, giving the lenders the right to declare a default if we are in default under other loans in some circumstances. If we fail to make our debt payments, we could lose our investment in a property. We intend to secure the loans we obtain to fund future property acquisitions with mortgages on some of our properties. If we are unable to make our debt payments as required, a lender could foreclose on the property or properties securing its debt. This could cause us to lose part or all of our investment which in turn could cause a reduction in the value of the shares and the dividends payable to our shareholders. High mortgage rates and/or unavailability of mortgage debt may make it difficult for us to finance or refinance properties, which could reduce the number of properties we can acquire, our net income and the amount of cash distributions we can make. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, we may not be able to finance the purchase of properties. If we place mortgage debt on properties, we may be unable to refinance the properties when the loans become due, or to refinance on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance our properties, our income could be reduced. If any of these events occur, our cash flow could be reduced. This, in turn, could reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing more shares or by borrowing more money. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments, adversely affect our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and could also adversely affect the values of the properties we own. We expect that we will incur additional indebtedness in the future. Interest we pay could reduce cash available for distributions. Additionally, if we incur variable rate debt, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which would reduce our cash flows and our ability to service indebtedness and, therefore, our ability to pay dividends to you. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times which may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. If we enter into financing arrangements involving balloon payment obligations, it may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. Our financing arrangements may require us to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. Our ability to make a balloon payment at maturity is uncertain and may depend upon our ability to obtain additional financing or our ability to sell the property. At 25 Table of Contents the time the balloon payment is due, we may or may not be able to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. A refinancing or sale under these circumstances could affect the rate of return to shareholders and the projected time of disposition of our assets. In addition, payments of principal and interest made to service our debts may leave us with insufficient cash to pay the distributions that we are required to pay to qualify as a REIT. In such case, we may be forced to borrow funds to make the distributions required to qualify as a REIT. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. These agreements may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: ¡ interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; ¡ available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; ¡ the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; ¡ the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions (other than through taxable REIT subsidiaries) is limited by U.S. federal tax provisions governing REITs; ¡ the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; ¡ the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; ¡ we could incur significant costs associated with the settlement of the agreements; ¡ the underlying transactions could fail to qualify as highly-effective cash flow hedges under FASB ASC “Derivative and Hedging”; and ¡ a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. We have adopted a policy relating to the use of derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risks related to our borrowings. This policy governs our use of derivative financial instruments to manage the interest rates on our variable rate borrowings. Our policy states that we will not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes and intend only to enter into contracts with major financial institutions based on their credit rating and other factors, but our Board of Trustees may choose to change these policies in the future. Hedging may reduce the overall returns on our investments, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, our operations and ability to make distributions will be adversely affected because we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates with no deductions for distributions made to shareholders. We believe that we are organized and operate in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, and that our method of operation enables us to continue to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. So long as we qualify as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our net taxable income we distribute currently to our shareholders. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain requirements established under highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and Treasury Regulations for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations, and which involve the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. In order for distributions to be deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes and count towards our distribution requirement, they must not be “preferential dividends.” A distribution will not be treated as preferential if it is pro rata among all outstanding shares within a particular class. IRS guidance, however, allows a REIT to offer shareholders participating in its dividend reinvestment program (“DRIP”) up to a 5% discount on shares purchased through the DRIP without treating such reinvested dividends as preferential. Our DRIP offers a 5% discount. In 2007, 2008 and the first two quarters of 2009, common shares issued pursuant to our DRIP were treated as issued as of the first day following the close of the quarter for which the distributions were declared, and not on the date that the cash distributions were paid to shareholders not participating in our DRIP. Because we declare dividends on a daily basis, including 26 Table of Contents with respect to common shares issued pursuant to our DRIP, the IRS could have taken the position that distributions paid by us during these periods were preferential on the grounds that the discount provided to DRIP participants effectively exceeded the authorized 5% discount or, alternatively, that the overall distributions were not pro rata among all shareholders. In addition, in the years 2007 through 2009 we paid certain individual retirement account (“IRA”) custodial fees in respect of IRA accounts that invested in our common shares, which could have been treated as dividend distributions to the IRAs, and therefore as preferential dividends as such amounts were not paid in respect of our other outstanding common shares. Although we believe that the effect of the operation of our DRIP and the payment of such fees was immaterial, the REIT rules do not provide an exception for de minimis preferential dividends. On July 8, 2011, we and the former investment advisor entered into a closing agreement with the IRS (the “Closing Agreement”) pursuant to which (i) the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) agreed not to challenge our dividends as preferential for its taxable years 2007, 2008 and 2009 as a result of the matters described above, and (ii) the former investment advisor paid a compliance fee of approximately $135,000 to the IRS. In accordance with the terms of the Closing Agreement, none of us, our Operating Partnership or any subsidiary thereof have directly or indirectly reimbursed or will directly or indirectly reimburse the former investment advisor for its payment of this compliance fee and none of the former investment advisor or its direct or indirect owners has deducted or will deduct the compliance fee from their taxable income. We and the former investment advisor expect to remain in compliance with the terms of the Closing Agreement, but any inadvertent non-compliance with such terms could result in adverse consequences for us. As a result of the Closing Agreement, we have met our distribution requirement for its taxable years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, or if we failed to meet our distribution requirements we would be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates with no deductions for distributions made to shareholders. Further, in such event, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lose our REIT qualification. Accordingly, the loss of our REIT qualification would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the substantial tax liabilities that would be imposed on us. We might also be required to borrow funds or sell investments to pay the applicable tax. We may be subject to tax on our undistributed net taxable income or be forced to borrow funds to make distributions required to qualify as a REIT. As a REIT, we generally must distribute at least 90% of our annual net taxable income (excluding net capital gain) to our shareholders and we are subject to regular corporate income tax to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our annual net taxable income. In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. In order to make distributions necessary to qualify as a REIT and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term, or possibly long-term, basis, use proceeds from our public offerings or future public offerings, or sell properties, even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for borrowings or sales. Our need for cash to make distributions could result from, among other things, a difference in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves and the repayment of indebtedness. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced U.S. federal income tax rates. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends payable by domestic corporations to individual U.S. shareholders is 20%. Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates and therefore maybe subject to a 39.6% maximum U.S. federal income tax on ordinary income. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our shares. We will pay some taxes. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some U.S. federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property, including a 100% penalty tax on any gain recognized on property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. To the extent that we are required to pay U.S. federal, state, local or foreign taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to our shareholders. 27 Table of Contents The ability of our Board of Trustees to revoke our REIT election without shareholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our shareholders. Our charter provides that our Board of Trustees may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our shareholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interests to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income and we would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our shareholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to our shareholders and the value of our shares. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect investors. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in our shares. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of us or our shareholders. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our properties. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We did not have any unresolved comments with the staff of the SEC as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 28 Table of Contents 