Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, including the financial statements and related notes, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While these are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important, you should know that they are not the only risks or uncertainties facing us or which may adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations each quarter to pay our minimum quarterly distribution following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. Under the terms of our limited liability company agreement, we must pay our operations and maintenance expenses and set aside any cash reserve amounts before making a distribution to our unitholders. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of natural gas gathered and transported on our pipelines; • the amount and NGL content of the natural gas we process; • the price of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil; • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; • the level of our operating costs and the impact of inflation on those costs; • the weather in our operating areas; • the level of competition from other midstream energy companies; and • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • our debt service requirements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • restrictions on distributions contained in our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 81/8% Senior Notes due 2016 (“Senior Notes”); 26 • our ability to make working capital borrowings under a credit facility that are eligible to be used to pay distributions; • prevailing economic conditions; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our Board of Directors for the proper conduct of our business. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. To the extent that we make acquisitions in the future and our acquisitions do not perform as expected, our future financial performance may be negatively impacted. Our business strategy includes making acquisitions that we anticipate would increase the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. As a result, from time to time, we evaluate and pursue assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing operations or expand our operations into new regions where our growth strategy can be applied. In 2007, we acquired assets in north Texas and Oklahoma, through our acquisition of Cimmarron, and acquired Cantera, which expanded our operations into the Rocky Mountains region. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete acquisitions in the future or achieve the desired results from the Cimmarron and Cantera acquisitions or any other acquisitions we complete in the future. In addition, failure to successfully assimilate our acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions potentially involve numerous risks, including: • operating a significantly larger combined organization and adding operations; • difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographic area; • the risk that natural gas reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated; • the loss of significant producers or markets or key employees from the acquired businesses; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • the failure to realize expected profitability or growth; • the failure to realize any expected synergies and cost savings; • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; and • coordinating or consolidating corporate and administrative functions. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. If we consummate any future acquisition, our capitalization and results of operation may change significantly, and you may not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating future acquisitions. Our acquisitions could expose us to potential significant liabilities. We generally assume the liabilities of an entity that we purchase and may assume certain liabilities relating to assets that we acquire, including unknown and contingent liabilities. We perform due diligence in connection with our acquisitions and attempt to verify the representations of the sellers, but there may be pending, threatened, contemplated or contingent claims related to environmental, title, regulatory, litigation or other matters of which we are unaware. Although we may have indemnification claims against sellers for certain of these liabilities, our right to indemnification is generally limited in amount and to claims made within a specified time period. For example, 27 we have the right to indemnification from the sellers of Cimmarron and Cantera for certain liabilities, but the indemnification is also generally limited in amount and to claims made within a specified time period. Because we assume certain liabilities in connection with our acquisitions, there is a risk that we could ultimately be liable for unknown obligations of the acquired entity or relating to the acquired assets, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We may not be able to fully execute our business strategy if we encounter illiquid capital markets. One component of our business strategy contemplates pursuing opportunities to acquire assets in new regions where we believe growth opportunities are attractive and our business strategies could be applied. We regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding strategic transactions that we believe will present opportunities to pursue our growth strategy. We will require substantial new capital to finance strategic acquisitions. Any limitations on our access to capital will impair our ability to execute this component of our growth strategy. If the cost of such capital becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors that influence our cost of capital include market conditions and offering or borrowing costs such as interest rates or underwriting discounts. Our substantial indebtedness could limit our operating flexibility and impair our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007 and in addition to liabilities we incurred as a result of our risk management activities, we had: • total indebtedness of $630.0 million, including indebtedness associated with our Senior Notes and our senior secured revolving credit facility; and • availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility of approximately $270.0 million. Subject to the restrictions governing our existing indebtedness and other financial obligations, we may incur significant additional indebtedness and other financial obligations in the future. Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general company purposes or other purposes; • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates to the extent that any of our debt is subject to variable rates of interest; • have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of that failure that is not cured or waived; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general company requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any competitors that have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain such refinancing or equity capital or sell assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. 28 Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may reduce our operating flexibility. The indenture governing our outstanding Senior Notes contains various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of specified subsidiaries to, among other things: • sell assets; • pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our equity interests or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt, if any; • make investments; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred units; • create or incur certain liens; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • create unrestricted subsidiaries; and • enter into sale and leaseback transactions. Our senior secured revolving credit facility contains similar covenants as well as covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. The restrictive covenants in our indenture and in the senior secured revolving credit facility could limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. We may be unable to comply with these covenants. Any future breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the terms of the indenture or our senior secured revolving credit facility, which could result in acceleration of our debt and other financial obligations. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding or proceed against any collateral. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells in our operating regions, our future success depends on our ability to continually obtain new sources of natural gas supply, which depends in part on certain factors beyond our control. Any decrease in supplies of natural gas could adversely affect our revenues and operating income. Our gathering and transmission pipeline systems are connected to natural gas fields and wells, for which the production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our pipeline systems and our processing plants, we must continually obtain new natural gas supplies. We may not be able to obtain additional contracts for natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new supplies of natural gas and attract new customers to our gathering and transmission lines include: (i) the level of successful drilling activity near our gathering systems and (ii) our ability to compete for the attachment of such additional volumes to our systems. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as natural gas prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of our operations, the amount of reserves underlying the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, rig availability, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. We face strong competition in acquiring new natural gas supplies. Competitors to our pipeline operations include major interstate and intrastate pipelines, and other natural gas gatherers. Competition for natural gas supplies is primarily based on the location of pipeline facilities, pricing arrangements, reputation, efficiency, 29 flexibility and reliability. Our major competitors for natural gas supplies and markets in our Texas segment include Enterprise Products Partners, Lobo Pipeline Company, KMTP, DCP Midstream, Crosstex Energy, ExxonMobil, HPL, Targa Resources, Atlas Pipeline and Devon Energy. The primary competitors in our Oklahoma segment include CenterPoint Field Services, DCP Midstream, ONEOK Field Services, Enogex, Enerfin, Hiland Partners and MarkWest. The primary competitors in our Rocky Mountains segment include Thunder Creek Gas Gathering, Bitter Creek Pipeline Company, Bear Paw Energy and Western Gas Resources. A number of our competitors are larger organizations than we are. If we are unable to maintain or increase the throughput on our pipeline systems because of decreased drilling activity in the areas in which we operate, decreased production from the wells connected to our systems or an inability to connect new supplies of gas and attract new customers to our gathering and transmission lines, then our business and financial results or our ability to achieve our growth strategy could be materially adversely affected. Please read Item 1, “Business — Natural Gas Supply” in this Annual Report for more information on our access to natural gas supplies. We rely on KMTP’s Laredo-to-Katy pipeline to transport natural gas to our Houston Central processing plant, and an NGL pipeline owned by ONEOK Hydrocarbon to transport NGLs from our Paden processing plant. If one of these pipelines were to become unavailable, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to contract for natural gas supplies in the Texas region will often depend on our ability to deliver gas to our Houston Central plant and downstream markets, and we rely on KMTP’s Laredo-to-Katy pipeline to transport natural gas from our South Texas systems to the Houston Central plant. For the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 42% of the total natural gas delivered by our Texas segment was delivered to KMTP, and approximately 76% of the natural gas volumes processed or conditioned at our Houston Central plant were delivered to the plant through the KMTP Laredo-to-Katy pipeline. If KMTP’s pipeline were to become unavailable for any reason, the volumes transported to our Houston Central plant would be reduced substantially, and our revenues and operating income from our Texas processing business could be adversely affected. In addition, much of the natural gas we gather in South Texas contains NGLs that must be removed in order to meet downstream market quality specifications. If we were unable to ship such natural gas to our Houston Central plant for processing or conditioning, and, if required, treating, we would need to arrange for an alternate means of removing NGLs and transport through other pipelines. Alternatively, we might be required to lease smaller treating and processing facilities so that we could treat and condition or process natural gas as needed to meet pipeline quality specifications. In addition, we rely on ONEOK Hydrocarbon to take delivery of NGLs from our Paden and Milfay plants in Oklahoma. If ONEOK Hydrocarbon’s NGL pipeline were to be come unavailable, we would be required to run one or both of these plants in a reduced operating mode and make arrangements to re-route a portion of the natural gas we receive for processing to third-party plants, as well as make arrangements to transport NGLs to market by truck. A prolonged interruption or reduction of service on ONEOK Hydrocarbon’s NGL pipeline could hinder our ability to contract for natural gas supplies, which in turn would adversely affect our revenues and operating income. We generally do not obtain reservoir engineering reports evaluating reserves dedicated to our pipeline systems; therefore, volumes of natural gas transported on our pipeline systems in the future could be less than we anticipate, which may cause our revenues and operating income to be less than we expect. We generally do not obtain reservoir engineering reports evaluating natural gas reserves connected to our pipeline systems due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, we do not have estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our pipeline systems is less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, then the volumes of natural gas transported on our pipelines in the future could be less than we anticipate. A decline in the volumes of natural gas transported on our pipeline systems may cause our revenues to be less than we expect which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to you. 30 We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and a general increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could have an adverse impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers are a major concern in our business. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could adversely impact our liquidity. Our profitability depends upon prices and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond our control and have been volatile. Our profitability is affected by prevailing NGL and natural gas prices, and we are subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2007, the Houston Ship Channel, or HSC, natural gas index price ranged from a high of $7.51 per MMBtu to a low of $5.23 per MMBtu. A composite of the Oil Price Information Service, or OPIS, Mt. Belvieu monthly average NGL price based upon our average NGL composition during the year ended December 31, 2007 ranged from a high of approximately $1.462 per gallon to a low of approximately $0.834 per gallon. In order to calculate the sensitivity of our total segment gross margin to commodity price changes, we adjusted our operating models for actual commodity prices, plant recovery rates and volumes. We have calculated that a 1-cent per gallon change in either direction of NGL prices would have resulted in a corresponding change of approximately $1.3 million to our total segment gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2007. We also calculated that a 10-cent per MMBtu increase in the price of natural gas would have resulted in approximately a $1.2 million decrease to our total segment gross margin, and vice versa, for the year ended December 31, 2007. These relationships are not necessarily linear. Although our sensitivity analysis takes into account our hedge portfolio, it does not fully reflect the effects of our hedging program due to the prices received for natural gas and NGLs during the year ended December 31, 2007. If actual prices were to fall below the strike prices of our hedges, sensitivity to the change in commodity prices would be reduced. Additionally, if processing margins were negative, we could operate our Houston Central plant in a conditioning mode so that additional increases in natural gas prices would have a positive impact to our total segment gross margin. For a discussion of total segment gross margin, a non-GAAP financial measure, please read Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — Overview.” For a discussion of our risk management activities and our ability to condition gas at our Houston Central plant, please read Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” and Item 1, “Business — Our Segments — Texas Houston Central Systems and Our Houston Central Processing Plant,” respectively. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon many factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas, or LNG, nuclear energy, coal and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • the availability of imported oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas and NGLs; • international demand for LNG, oil and NGLs; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. 31 Our hedging activities do not eliminate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates and may reduce our cash flow and subject our earnings to increased volatility. Our operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices. We utilize derivative financial instruments related to the future price of crude oil, natural gas and certain NGLs with the intent of reducing the volatility of our cash flows due to fluctuations in commodity prices. Specifically, we have executed (i) put options and call spread options with respect to natural gas, (ii) put options and swaps with respect to certain NGL products and (iii) put options with respect to crude oil. We also have exposure to interest rate fluctuations as a result of variable rate revolving debt under our credit agreement. We have entered into interest rate swap agreements to convert a portion of this variable rate debt to a fixed rate obligation, thereby reducing the exposure to market rate fluctuations. Please read Item 7A “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for a summary of our commodity and interest rate hedges at December 31, 2007. We have entered into derivative transactions related to only a portion of our variable rate debt and of the volume of our expected natural gas and condensate supply, production of NGLs and natural gas requirements. As a result, we will continue to have direct interest rate and commodity price risk with respect to the unhedged portion. To the extent we hedge our commodity price and interest rate risk using swap instruments, we will forego the benefits we would otherwise experience if commodity prices or interest rates were to change in our favor. Even though our hedging activities are monitored by management, these activities could reduce our cash flow in some circumstances, including if the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, if there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual prices received or if production is less than expected. If the actual amount of production is lower than the amount that is subject to our swap instruments, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our swap transactions without the benefit of the cash flow from our sale of the underlying physical commodity, resulting in a reduction of our cash flow. The accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are rigorous. Our earnings could be subject to increased volatility to the extent our derivatives do not continue to qualify for hedge accounting. Also, to the extent we are unable to obtain, or choose not to seek hedge accounting in conjunction with any future acquisitions as a result of the type of commodity risk assumed, or structure of such acquisition, our earnings could be subject to increased volatility. In addition, it is not always possible for us to engage in a hedging transaction that completely mitigates our exposure to commodity prices. Our financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge. We will continue to evaluate whether to enter into any new hedging arrangements, but there can be no assurance that we will enter into any new hedging arrangement or that our future hedging arrangements will be on terms similar to our existing hedging arrangements. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect our business. Our pipeline transportation and gathering systems are subject to federal, state and/or local regulation. Most of our natural gas pipeline assets are gathering systems that are considered non-utilities in the states in which they are located. The Natural Gas Act, or NGA, leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. Texas, Oklahoma and Wyoming, the states in which our pipeline facilities are located, do not currently regulate gathering fees. Our gathering fees and our terms and conditions of service may nonetheless be constrained through state anti-discrimination laws. The states in which we operate have adopted complaint-based regulation of natural gas gathering activities. Natural gas producers, shippers and other affected parties may file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and discrimination with regard to rates and terms of service. A successful complaint, or new laws or regulatory rulings related to gathering, could increase our costs or require us to alter our gathering charges, and our business, and therefore, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Other state laws and regulations may not directly regulate our business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for gathering, purchase, processing and sale, including state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowables from gas wells. 32 Some of our intrastate natural gas transmission pipelines are subject to regulation as gas utilities by the Texas Railroad Commission, or TRRC. The TRRC’s jurisdiction over these pipelines extends to both rates and pipeline safety. The rates we charge for transportation services in Texas are deemed just and reasonable under Texas law unless challenged in a complaint. A successful complaint, or new state laws or regulatory rulings related to intrastate transmission, could increase our costs or require us to alter our service charges, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. To the extent that our intrastate pipelines transport natural gas in interstate commerce, the rates, terms and conditions of that transportation service are subject to regulation by the FERC pursuant to Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978, or NGPA. Section 311 requires, among other things, that rates for such interstate service, which may be established by the FERC or the applicable state agency, be “fair and equitable” and permits the FERC to approve terms and conditions of service. If our Section 311 rates are successfully challenged, if we are unable to include all of our costs in the cost of service approved in a future rate case, if FERC changes its regulations or policies, or establishes more onerous terms and conditions applicable to Section 311 service, this may adversely affect our business. Any reduction in our rates could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. The price at which we buy and sell natural gas, NGLs and crude oil is currently not subject to federal regulation and, for the most part, is not subject to state regulation. However, with regard to our physical purchases and sales of these energy commodities, our gathering or transportation of these energy commodities, and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe anti-market manipulation laws and related regulations enforced by the FERC and/or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or the CFTC. The FERC and CFTC hold substantial enforcement authority under the anti-market manipulation laws and regulations, including the ability to assess civil penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation, to order disgorgement of profits and to recommend criminal penalties. Should we violate the anti-market manipulation laws and regulations, we could also be subject to related third party damage claims by, among others, sellers, royalty owners and taxing authorities. The FERC has also promulgated additional market-monitoring and reporting regulations intended to increase the transparency of wholesale energy markets, protect the integrity of such markets, and improve the FERC’s ability to assess market forces and detect market manipulation. These and other new laws and regulations or any administrative or judicial re-interpretations of existing laws, regulations or agreements could require us to incur increased costs and administrative burdens, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. For instance, on February 19, 2008, the U.S. Supreme Court agreed to hear arguments in a lawsuit, Montana v. Wyoming, filed by the State of Montana against Wyoming over water rights in two rivers that flow through both states. Montana is asserting that Wyoming is using too much water from the Tongue and Powder Rivers pursuant to the Yellowstone River Compact, an agreement that both states entered into in 1950 addressing how the states may share water from the Yellowstone River and its tributaries, including the Tongue and Powder Rivers. A critical element of Montana’s argument is that the Compact applies to groundwater and, among other things, that Wyoming’s permitting of coal bed methane production, which involves the pumping of large quantities of groundwater, is depleting the waters of the two rivers to the detriment of Montana and its water users and in violation of the Compact. Wyoming’s position is that the Compact does not address groundwater. Among other things, Montana asks the High Court to declare the rights of Montana to water from these two rivers pursuant to the Compact and to issue a decree commanding Wyoming in the future to deliver the waters of these two rivers to Montana in accord with the Compact. This lawsuit has only recently been accepted for review by the U.S. Supreme Court and no substantive determination has yet been made regarding the use of waters from these two rivers, including the associated groundwater. Any decision made by the U.S. Supreme Court as a result of this case that effectively limits the amount of groundwater pumped in connection with coal bed methane production in Wyoming may have significant adverse impacts on the volume of production by coal bed methane producers in affected areas of Wyoming and, correspondingly, on gathering services that Bighorn and Fort Union provide. For additional information on the federal, state and local regulations affecting our business, please read the subsections under Item 1 captioned “Business — Regulation” and “— Environmental Matters.” 33 A change in the characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies could adversely affect our business. Section 1(b) of the NGA provides that the FERC’s jurisdiction does not extend to facilities used for the production or gathering of natural gas. “Gathering” is not specifically defined by the NGA or its implementing regulations, and there is no bright-line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. Although some guidance is provided by case law, the process of determining whether facilities constitute gathering facilities for purposes of regulation under the NGA is fact-specific and subject to regulatory change. Additionally, our construction, expansion, extension or alteration of pipeline facilities may involve regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, including the possibility that physical changes to our pipeline systems may be deemed to affect their jurisdictional status. The distinction between FERC-regulated natural gas transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of regular litigation, as has been the line between intrastate and interstate transportation services. Thus, the classification and regulation of some of our natural gas gathering facilities and intrastate transportation pipelines may be subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC and/or the courts. Should any of our natural gas gathering or intrastate facilities be deemed to be jurisdictional under the NGA, we could be required to comply with numerous federal requirements for interstate service, including laws and regulations governing the rates charged for interstate transportation services, the terms and conditions of service, certification and construction of new facilities, the extension or abandonment of services and facilities, the maintenance of accounts and records, the initiation and discontinuation of services, the monitoring and posting of real-time system information and many other requirements. Failure to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders could result in substantial penalties and fines. It is also possible that our gathering facilities could be deemed by a relevant state commission or court, or by a change in law or regulation, to constitute intrastate pipeline subject to general state law and regulation of rates and terms and conditions of service. A change in jurisdictional status through litigation or legislation could require significant changes to the rates, terms and conditions of service on the affected pipeline, could increase the expense of providing service and adversely affect our business. The distinction between FERC-regulated common carriage of crude oil and NGLs, and the non-jurisdictional intrastate transportation of those energy commodities, has also been the subject of litigation. The FERC, under the ICA, the Energy Policy Act of 1992, and rules and orders promulgated thereunder, regulates the tariff rates for interstate crude oil and NGL transportation and these rates must be filed with the FERC. Under the ICA, tariffs must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or confer any undue preference. To the extent any of our NGL or crude oil assets are subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, the FERC’s rate-making methodologies could limit our ability to set rates that we might otherwise be able to charge, could delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs, and could subject us to potentially burdensome and expensive operational, reporting and other requirements. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, revenues and cash flow. For additional information concerning FERC and other regulatory agencies relating to our business, please read “Business — Regulation.” We may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline integrity programs and related repairs. We are subject to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, or NGPSA, and the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002. The NGPSA regulates safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of gas pipeline facilities while the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act establishes mandatory inspections for all United States oil and natural gas transportation pipelines and gathering lines meeting certain operational risk and location requirements. The DOT has developed regulations implementing the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act that require pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including more frequent inspections and other safety protections in areas where the consequences of potential pipeline accidents pose the greatest risk to people and their property. Although many of our natural gas facilities fall within a class that is not subject to these requirements, we may incur significant costs and liabilities associated with repair, remediation, preventative or mitigation measures associated with non-exempt pipeline. Such costs and liabilities might relate to repair, remediation, preventative or 34 mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, as well as lost cash flows resulting from shutting down our pipelines during the pendency of such repairs. Additionally, we may be affected by the testing, maintenance and repair of pipeline facilities downstream from our own facilities. Our NGL pipelines are also subject to integrity management and other safety regulations imposed by the TRRC. Any regulatory expansion of the existing pipeline safety requirements or the adoption of new pipeline safety requirements could also increase our cost of operation and impair our ability to provide service during the period in which assessments and repairs take place, adversely affecting our business. Because we handle natural gas, crude oil and other petroleum products in our pipeline and processing businesses, we may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operation of our gathering systems, plants and other facilities is subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, including restricting the manner in which we dispose of wastes and other regulated substances, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination, and requiring capital expenditures to comply with control requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where substances and wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of substances or wastes into the environment. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of natural gas, crude oil and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations including releases of substances into the environment and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines or processing facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Please read “Business — Environmental Matters.” Expanding our business by constructing new assets will subject us to risks that projects may not be completed on schedule, the costs associated with the projects may exceed our expectations and additional natural gas supplies may not be available following completion of the projects, which could cause our revenues to be less than anticipated. Our operating cash flows from our capital projects may not be immediate. One of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation systems (including additional compression) and modifications to, or construction of, natural gas processing plants. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing gathering and transportation systems and processing and treating facilities, and the construction of new gathering and processing facilities, involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and operational uncertainties beyond our control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. These projects also involve numerous economic uncertainties including the impact of inflation on project costs and the availability of required resources. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Moreover, we may not receive any material increase in operating cash flow from a project for some time. If we experience unanticipated or extended delays in generating operating cash flow from these projects, then we may need to reduce or reprioritize our capital budget in order to meet our capital requirements. We may also rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our gathering and transportation systems, which may 35 prove to be inaccurate because of the numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return and that, in turn, could adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. If the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, it may have an adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, if we are unable to obtain new rights-of-way, then we may be unable to fully execute our growth strategy. The construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, increased rights-of-way costs could impair our ability to grow. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, our operations could be temporarily or permanently impaired, and our liabilities and expenses could be significant. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compression, treating, processing and transportation of natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to pipelines, pipeline blockages and damage to related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from motor vehicles, construction or farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; • operator error; and • fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. In addition, mechanical malfunctions, undetected ruptures in pipelines, faulty measurement or other errors may result in significant costs or lost revenues. Our operations are primarily concentrated in the Texas Gulf Coast and north Texas regions, in central and eastern Oklahoma and in Wyoming, and a natural disaster or other hazard affecting any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operations. For example, although we did not suffer significant damage, Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita damaged gathering systems, processing facilities and NGL fractionators along the Gulf Coast in August and September 2005, respectively, which curtailed or suspended the operations of various energy companies with assets in the region. There can be no assurance that insurance will cover all damages and losses resulting from these types of natural disasters. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. In accordance with typical industry practice, we generally do not have any property insurance on any of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. Our business interruption insurance covers only certain lost revenues arising from physical damage to our processing plants and certain pipeline facilities. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, our operations could be temporarily or permanently impaired, and our liabilities and expenses could be significant. Due to our limited asset diversification, adverse developments in our gathering, transportation, processing and related businesses would have a significant impact on our results of operations. Substantially all of our revenues are generated from our gathering, dehydration, treating, conditioning, processing and transportation businesses, and as a result, our financial condition depends upon prices of, and 36 continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Furthermore, substantially all of our assets are located in Texas, Oklahoma and Wyoming. Due to our limited diversification in asset type and location, an adverse development in one of these businesses or in these areas would have a significantly greater impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition than if we maintained more diverse assets. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, we may experience materially higher compliance costs. In early 2005, we began a process to annually document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations, which require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. In this regard, management has dedicated internal resources, engaged outside consultants and adopted a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes, where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and (iv) implement a continuous review and reporting process for internal control over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit of that assessment have resulted, and are likely to continue to result, in increased expenses. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If compliance with policies or procedures deteriorate and we fail to correct any associated issues in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential holders of our securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business. We own interests in limited liability companies and a general partnership in which third parties also own interests, which may limit our ability to influence significant business decisions affecting these entities. In addition to our wholly owned subsidiaries, we own interests in a number of entities in which third parties also own an interest. These interests include our: • 62.5% interest in Webb/Duval Gatherers; • majority interest in Southern Dome, LLC; • 51% interest in Bighorn Gas Gathering, L.L.C.; and • 37.04% interest in Fort Union Gas Gathering, L.L.C. Although we serve as operator of Webb/Duval Gatherers, managing member and operator of Southern Dome, managing member and field operator of Bighorn and managing member of Fort Union, certain substantive business decisions with respect to these entities require the majority or unanimous approval of the owners or, in the case of Bighorn, of a management committee to which we have the right to appoint 50% of the members. Examples of some of these substantive business decisions include significant expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others. Differences in views among the respective owners of these entities could result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on significant matters, potentially adversely affecting their respective businesses and results of operations or prospects and, in turn, the amounts and timing of cash from operations distributed to their respective members or partners, including us. In addition, we do not control the day-to-day operations of Fort Union. Our lack of control over Fort Union’s day-to-day operations and the associated costs of operations could result in our receiving lower cash distributions than we anticipate, which could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to our unitholders. 37 Risks Related to Our Structure Our limited liability company agreement prohibits a unitholder who acquires 15% or more of our common units without the approval of our Board of Directors from engaging in a business combination with us for three years. This provision could discourage a change of control that our unitholders may favor, which could negatively affect the price of our common units. Our limited liability company agreement effectively adopts Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Laws, or the DGCL. Section 203 of the DGCL as it applies to us prevents an interested unitholder, defined as a person who owns 15% or more of our outstanding units, from engaging in business combinations with us for three years following the time such person becomes an interested unitholder. Section 203 broadly defines “business combination” to encompass a wide variety of transactions with or caused by an interested unitholder, including mergers, asset sales and other transactions in which the interested unitholder receives a benefit on other than a pro rata basis with other unitholders. This provision of our limited liability company agreement could have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our Board of Directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for our common units. Our cap on certain general and administrative expenses expired on December 31, 2007, and our pre-IPO investors are no longer required to reimburse us for certain amounts in excess of the cap, which could materially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to our limited liability company agreement, our pre-IPO investors agreed to reimburse us for the general and administrative expenses we incurred for the years 2005 through 2007 in excess of levels set forth in our limited liability company agreement (subject to certain limitations). In satisfaction of this obligation, our pre-IPO investors made capital contributions to us of $4.1 million, $4.6 million, $10.0 million and $3.9 million in 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. Commencing with the first quarter of 2008, our pre-IPO investors no longer have this reimbursement obligation. As a result, all of our general and administrative expenses will be paid by us, which could materially reduce the cash available for distributions to our unitholders. We may issue additional common units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of limited liability company interests of any type, including common units, without the approval of our unitholders. Our limited liability company agreement does not give the unitholders the right to approve our issuance at any time of equity securities ranking junior to the common units. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • your proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit will be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Our limited liability company agreement provides for a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If, at any time, any person owns more than 90% of the common units then outstanding, such person has the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units then outstanding at a price not less than the then-current market price of the common units. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may therefore not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur tax liability upon a sale of your units. 38 Certain of our investors may sell units in the public market, which could reduce the market price of our outstanding common units. Pursuant to agreements with our pre-IPO investors and investors in private placements effected in 2005, 2006 and 2007, we have filed or agreed to file registration statements on Form S-3 registering sales by selling unitholders of an aggregate of 39,354,334 of our common units (as adjusted to reflect the March 30, 2007 two-for-one split of all of our outstanding common units), including: • 1,184,557 common units to be issued upon conversion of Class C units we issued to the sellers in the Cimmarron acquisition; • 3,245,817 common units to be issued upon conversion of Class D units we issued to the sellers in the Cantera acquisition; and • 5,598,836 common units to be issued upon conversion of Class E units issued in our October 19, 2007 private placement. While investors have routinely sold common units registered under our effective registration statements, a significant number of common units remains unsold pursuant to these registration statements. If investors holding these units were to dispose of a substantial portion of these units in the public market, whether in a single transaction or series of transactions, it could temporarily reduce the market price of our outstanding common units. In addition, these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could make it more difficult for us to sell our common units in the future. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for tax purposes or we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Despite the fact that we are a limited liability company under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a limited liability company such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we should be so treated, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss or deduction would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders and therefore would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. For example, we were subject to a new entity level tax on the portion of our income that is generated in Texas beginning in our tax year ending December 31, 2007. Specifically, the Texas margin tax is imposed at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our federal gross income apportioned to Texas. Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas, or any other state, will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Moreover, at the federal level, legislation has been 39 proposed that would eliminate pass-through tax treatment for certain publicly traded limited liability companies. Although such legislation would not apply to us as currently proposed, it could be amended prior to enactment in a manner that does apply to us. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Additionally, any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. Our limited liability company agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may disagree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. A unitholder will be required to pay taxes on the share of our income allocated to you even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income, you will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, regardless of the amount of any distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our units. 40 We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and for certain other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the technical termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. While we would continue our existence as a Delaware limited liability company, our technical termination would, among other things result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. A technical termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. As a result of investing in our common units, you may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where you do not live. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently do business and own assets in Texas, Oklahoma, Wyoming and Louisiana. Although Texas and Wyoming do not currently impose a personal income tax, Oklahoma and Louisiana do and as we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in the common units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 