Risk Factors.” You should read these factors and other cautionary statements as being applicable to all related forward-looking statements wherever they appear. If one or more of these factors materialize, or if any underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual results, performance or achievements may vary materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We were formed in April 2003 and, through our wholly-owned subsidiary, SUA Insurance Company, offer commercial property and casualty insurance to selected customer groups. We believe that we are different from other specialty insurance companies because we have created an innovative business model that emphasizes partner relationships with key agents, or partner agents, knowledgeable in the types of business classes we underwrite. Highly specialized business knowledge of these business classes is required to achieve underwriting profits. Historically, we believe that this segment of the industry has been underserved by most standard property and casualty insurance companies because they lack such specialized knowledge and are not willing to make the necessary investment to support select business classes. Generally, insurance agents are paid by up-front commissions. As a result, agents make money even if the insurance carrier does not make an underwriting profit. Often, in the specialty program business, insurance agents historically have had underwriting authority and were responsible for handling claims. We believe that this system has not served the carriers, the agents or the insureds very well. Poor underwriting results have led to underwriting losses for carriers, and instability in the insurance market from carrier turnover. In turn, agents have incurred additional costs in searching for, and converting to, new carriers. Policyholders have experienced uncertainty regarding the placement of their coverage from year to year and the quality of service. Our business model is designed to realign the interests of carriers, agents and insureds. We have entered into on-going arrangements with partner agents. Our agreements with the partner agents provide that in exchange for marketing and pre-qualifying business for us, our partner agents receive an up-front commission designed to cover their costs and an underwriting profit-based commission paid over several years. In addition, they purchase shares of Class B common stock of our company, with returns on their investment tied to our performance. We provide our partner agents with a five-year exclusive arrangement (generally allowing partner agents to offer other companies’ products if we decline to offer coverage to a prospective insured) covering a specific class of business and territory. Further, we are implementing a centralized information system designed to reduce processing and administrative time. Lastly, we are a stable, dedicated source of specialty program commercial property and casualty insurance capacity. 3 Table of Contents We have a secure category rating of “B+” (Very Good) from A.M. Best, which is the sixth highest of 15 rating levels. The fourth quarter of 2004 we completed our initial public offering of 13,122,000 shares of Class A common stock, or common stock, at an initial public offering price of $9.50 per share. Concurrent with the closing of the initial public offering, we sold 1,000,000 shares of our common stock at a price of $8.835 per share in a private placement. Simultaneously with the closing of our initial public offering, Courtney C. Smith, Peter E. Jokiel, William S. Loder and Gary J. Ferguson, each an executive officer, purchased directly from us 22,637, 33,956, 16,978 and 16,978 shares of our common stock, respectively. Additionally, at the closing of our initial public offering, we sold 26,316 shares of our Class B common stock to our partner agents at a total aggregate amount of $250,000. The net proceeds to us from all these transactions after deducting expenses were approximately $123.5 million. Simultaneously with the closing of the initial public offering, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of Potomac Insurance Company of Illinois, or Potomac, which was licensed in 41 states and the District of Columbia, from OneBeacon Insurance Company, or OneBeacon, for $22.0 million. We refer to this transaction as the “Acquisition.” After giving effect to the Acquisition, we changed the name of Potomac Insurance Company of Illinois to SUA Insurance Company. SUA Insurance Company is licensed to conduct insurance business in 42 states and the District of Columbia. We consider these jurisdictions to be those that are important to our current business plan because they account for approximately 90% of the population of the United States. SUA Insurance Company is not licensed in Hawaii, Maine, Minnesota, Montana, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Oregon and Wyoming. However, in the future we may apply for licenses in the states listed above. Prior to the Acquisition, SUA Insurance Company entered into a transfer and assumption agreement with OneBeacon whereby all of its liabilities, including all direct liabilities under existing insurance policies, were transferred to and assumed by OneBeacon. In the event of the failure to pay by OneBeacon, SUA Insurance Company could experience losses which could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. OneBeacon currently has a rating of “A” (Excellent) from A.M. Best, which is the third highest of 15 rating levels. Our website address is www.suainsurance.com. We make available on this website under “Investor Relations,” free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed via Edgar by our directors and executive officers and various other SEC filings, including amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such reports to the SEC. We also make available on our website our Corporate Governance Guidelines and Principles, our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the charters of our Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. This information also is available by written request to Investor Relations at our executive office address listed below. The information on our website, or on the site of our third-party service provider, is not incorporated by reference into this report. Our principal executive offices are located at 222 South Riverside Plaza, Chicago, Illinois 60606 and our telephone number is (888) 782-4672. Industry The property and casualty insurance industry has historically been cyclical. When excess underwriting capacity exists, increased competition generally results in lower pricing and less favorable policy terms and conditions for insurers. As underwriting capacity contracts, pricing and policy terms and conditions generally become more favorable for insurers. In the past, underwriting capacity has been impacted by several factors, including catastrophes, industry losses, recognition of reserve deficiencies, changes in the law and regulatory requirements, investment returns and the ratings and financial strength of competitors. 4 Table of Contents We believe the insurance industry is currently recovering from a prolonged period of excess underwriting capacity. A decline in underwriting margins in the late 1980s and incidences of large natural catastrophes led to increases in rates and a recovery in industry profitability in the mid-to-late 1990s. As a result of favorable loss levels and strong investment returns beginning in 1995, the insurance industry experienced increased competition and industry capacity, driving property and casualty premium rates down. However, significant catastrophic losses in 1999 and the subsequent contraction of capacity in the market resulted in improvement in rates, terms and conditions for insurers beginning in 2000, as the demand for insurance has increased. These dislocations have recently been exacerbated by recent hurricane activity in 2004 and 2005. Historical Industry Model Specialty commercial property and casualty insurance underwriting requires in-depth knowledge of a particular business class, and often personal knowledge of the participants in a business class. As a result, insurers rely on skilled agents to procure business. Such an agent generally is an outsourced underwriting department for the insurer. It markets to independent agents, processes submissions, selects risks, binds and issues policies on behalf of the insurer, and in some cases, handles claims on underwritten businesses. Such agents and insurers commonly work with a reinsurer, which participates in the pool of risks selected by such agents. Without an insurer providing licensed policy paper and a reinsurer providing capacity, such agents are unable to service their independent agent clients, which ultimately affects the policyholders. Historically, insurance carriers have engaged key agents under long-term contracts to produce and underwrite businesses, often processed through each such agent’s proprietary policy issuance and management information systems, with claims adjustment assigned to third parties. Agents and such third parties were generously compensated through these arrangements, but the compensation was not linked to the underlying profitability of the business. We believe that this strategy has led to a lack of alignment of interests between carriers and agents. In addition, we believe that this system has resulted in weak underwriting and pricing controls, poor claims management and high costs due to the duplication of activities. Our Model We believe that our strategy of developing relationships with partner agents is a fundamental shift in the way insurance companies do business. We enter into contractual relationships with our partner agents in order to encourage them to work with us in building our portfolio of specialty program commercial property and casualty insurance business. A significant portion of the compensation paid to our partner agents will be directly tied to the underwriting profitability of their specific programs. In addition, our partner agents purchase an equity interest in our company, in the form of non-voting Class B common stock. We believe that offering an ownership interest to our partner agents encourages them to direct business to us, regardless of future market cycles. We expect our partner agents to provide prequalified leads through their retail agents. We retain control over underwriting and claims activities. In addition, we anticipate that all transaction processing will be done through our proprietary technology system in order to ensure data integrity and efficiency. As of March 1, 2006, we have entered into definitive agreements with six partner agents, American Team Managers, AEON Insurance Group, Inc., Risk Transfer Holdings, Inc, Specialty Risk Solutions, LLC, Appalachian Underwriters, Inc., and American Patriot Insurance Agency, Inc. We have also entered into a non-binding letter of intent with an additional partner agent. The key features of our relationship with our partner agents are as follows: • Equity Ownership. Each partner agent must purchase shares of our non-voting Class B common stock. The Class B shares will become exchangeable, one-for-one with our common stock, five years after the effective date of the applicable partner agent agreement, as long as the partner agent’s contract is in force. These Class B shares will be subject to substantial restrictions on transferability during such period. If prior to five years after the effective date of the applicable partner agent agreement such partner agent’s contract is terminated, we may repurchase at the lower of cost or fair market value the partner agent’s Class B shares. If after five years following the effective date of the applicable partner agent agreement such partner agent’s contract is terminated, we may repurchase at 5 Table of Contents fair market value the partner agent’s Class B shares. After the five-year period, for as long as the partner agent has an agency contract with us, such partner agent would be required to hold shares of Class B common stock worth at least 50% of its aggregate initial investment commitment in our Class B common stock. • Commission. We pay each partner agent an up-front commission designed to cover its costs. Such commission is likely to be lower than they had been receiving from other companies. In exchange for this reduced commission, we are responsible, through our own technology system, for policy issuance and administration, as well as for claims. In addition, each partner agent may receive a meaningful share of the underwriting profits for each of its programs, subject to a cap. If, after five years, the partner agent agreement is terminated, for any reason, the profit sharing calculations will be performed annually until all payout periods and earned profit sharing are satisfied. • Long-Term Contractual Commitment. Each partner agent has an exclusive five-year contractual arrangement (generally allowing partner agents to offer other companies’ products if we decline to offer coverage to a prospective insured) with us. We have no obligation to accept business that does not meet our guidelines. We agree to write only that class of business and lines of business by program in a defined territory only with that partner agent. Our partner agents may have one or a number of their programs with us. We expect that we will be a significant percentage of our partner agents’ program business. Each partner agent has the right to terminate its relationship with us on 180 days’ notice. We have the right to terminate our relationship with our partner agents for material breach of our agreement, insolvency, or failure to maintain appropriate licenses. We also may terminate a partner agent that is acquired by a third party, but cannot restrict the acquisition of a partner agent. In addition, we can terminate our relationship if a partner agent does not meet certain profitability and production guidelines that are established under each agreement. Upon termination, at our discretion, the partner agent must service the existing business until it is terminated. At such point, the partner agent is allowed to place such business with other insurers. In addition, there are no provisions in the agreements with our partner agents that grant renewal rights to either party. Further, the agreements with our partner agents do not give us any right to acquire a partner agent. Our Insurance Product Lines Our insurance operations, through our six partner agents, are focused on the following programs: American Team Managers • General Contractors Program. This program services general contractors with less than $8 million in annual revenue. Eligible accounts under this program include residential or commercial contractors that are involved in remodeling and tenant improvements, commercial building and residential home building (limited to those contractors who build no more than five homes of three stories or fewer per year). The program offers only general liability coverage in the state of California. • Artisan Contractors Program. This program services artisan contractors in California with less than $500,000 in payroll expenses and $2,000,000 in annual revenues. We limit participation in this program to 52 classes of relatively low-exposure contractors, such as: • Appliances and accessories (installation, servicing and repair); • Carpentry; • Driveways, parking areas or sidewalks (paving or repairing); • Electrical work (within buildings); • Heating and air conditioning systems or equipment (installation, service or repair); • Paper hanging; and • Plumbing 6 Table of Contents • California Comp. Program. This program uses technology to fully automate a disciplined underwriting approach to writing small premium workers’ compensation business initially in California. Our online product is available to small businesses of less than $25,000 in premium with relatively low hazard grades (low exposure to loss). AEON Insurance Group, Inc. • Towing and Recovery Program. This program services professional towing operators who have garage operations with towing and recovery operators for hire and towing for auto auctions. The program offers policies that include property, inland marine, general liability, garage and automobile coverages on a national basis. Risk Transfer Holdings, Inc. • PEO Program. Professional Employer Organizations, or PEOs, take on the employment responsibilities of human resources, benefits administration and insurance purveyor, while allowing their clients to focus on their core business objectives. This program specializes in workers’ compensation. While the risks are aggregated, each account is underwritten and priced individually in this program. Specialty Risk Solutions, LLC • Public Entities Program. This program specializes in providing general liability insurance to public entity clients, including schools, other educational institutions and municipalities. Appalachian Underwriters, Inc. • Small Artisan and General Contractors Program. This program services small artisan and general contractors including carpenters, electricians, and interior decorators, as well as suppliers to the construction industry, such as drywall suppliers. The program offers policies that include commercial general liability and commercial auto liability. Currently, the program focuses on twelve southeastern states, and will look to expand into additional states in the future. American Patriot Insurance Agency, Inc. • Roofing Contractors Program. This program services the small to medium roofing industry. The program provides commercial general liability and commercial auto liability both directly and through retail brokers. Currently, the program focuses on the central and southern regions. Reinsurance We have entered into reinsurance agreements to cover our casualty lines of business. Coverage of our casualty lines of business includes general liability, auto liability and workers’ compensation. We purchased reinsurance from reinsurers that are rated at least “A-” (Excellent) or better by A.M. Best and our reinsurers will be compensated by sharing specified percentages of premiums, and our reinsurers may pay us ceding commissions. For our workers’ compensation business, our reinsurers are responsible for losses between $1 million and $5 million due to any single occurrence under a policy and for losses in excess of $5 million up to $24 million for a multiple loss occurrence. For our non-workers’ compensation casualty business, we do not write policies above $1 million and therefore do not need reinsurance protection. For this business, our reinsurers are responsible between $1 million and $19 million of losses for a multiple loss occurrence. Underwriting We produce all of our business through our partner agents, and select our partner agents based on a shared underwriting philosophy. Our underwriting strategy focuses on strict control of underwriting, pricing, coverage, partner agent relationships and customer segmentation. Our primary underwriting goal is to achieve 7 Table of Contents profitable results through targeted permissible loss ratios complemented by a low expense ratio. Because we are unlikely to seek or obtain mid-term cancellations of existing policies produced by our partner agents, we seek to transition policies over a 12-month period following the execution of each partner agent agreement as the policies are renewed, subject to our underwriting and pricing guidelines. Our underwriting philosophy has five components: • We carefully scrutinize prospective partner agents. We contract only with agents that we believe have strong reputations and significant specialized knowledge of the market they serve. Our partner agents possess records of achievement in the industry, including minimum business volumes, attractive combined loss ratios and long-term relationships with their insurance carriers. We grant partner agents program exclusivity so that partner agents do not market against each other. Partner agents are required to have the ability to expand their operations, have resources dedicated to selected programs and maintain minimum revenue levels. Most of our partner agents have a previous affiliation with members of our senior management or a referral from Guy Carpenter & Company, Inc., or Guy Carpenter, or an existing partner agent. • We maintain strict control of our underwriting process. Our underwriters work with each partner agent to develop specific underwriting strategies, pricing structure, acceptable coverage and initial customer requirements. Senior underwriting personnel experienced in specialty classes, pricing, coverage and multiple lines of business along with actuarial, claims and systems personnel will form a program team to work with each partner agent. In addition, we develop a specific underwriting strategy for each customer segment. Each customer segment includes a demographic study of the number of prospective customers available, as well as the number of customers each partner agent expects to provide to us. We also create eligibility guidelines, which include size requirements for each account within the customer segment, acceptability for loss history, financial and ownership stability and adherence to loss prevention and safety practices. Ineligible operations are identified and eliminated from the customer segment. With the cooperation of the partner agents, each program team conducts the market research and analysis to develop specific customer segments, line of business coverage guidelines and pricing requirements. Each customer segment or business opportunity has minimum standards and business performance measures. We do not allow our partner agents to set rates on any program. We use in-house actuaries, as well as outside actuarial consultants, to validate the rating and pricing plans. • We have established a partner agent advisory process. We review potential partner agents with our existing agents. Our partner agents have input on new programs and territorial assignments. This enables us to work with our partner agents to avoid channel conflicts and promote the growth of profitable programs. • We are implementing a centralized processing system to control data. As part of our infrastructure strategy, we finalized our technology plans for policy administration by contracting for a new system that will allow us to more efficiently quote, issue and manage insurance polices while controlling data from the first entry into the system. Our system will provide transmission of account information from the retail agents to the partner agents and us. We are customizing the system for each partner agent program and customer segment. The system will allow our underwriters to provide approval of submissions at the point of entry using predetermined underwriting, pricing and coverage guidelines. Our underwriters continue to oversee the underwriting process by having access to the system as the agents enter information and approve quotes. In selected circumstances, the system will receive and approve online quotes with minimal underwriter intervention, based on predetermined underwriting criteria. All data used to underwrite risk and to handle claims will be controlled by us rather than controlled by agents, third party administrators or other intermediaries. • We have a strict audit and operational review process. Our audit reviews focus on rate adequacy, line of business analysis, and authority and compliance guidelines. They are performed at least twice per year and are led by corporate underwriting which is separate from our program teams. Our program 8 Table of Contents reviews focus on premium volume and profitability of our individual partner agents and is led by our program teams. Our intent is to perform program reviews quarterly with interim reviews if necessary. Any partner agent that does not meet acceptable standards after remediation will be presented before our senior management for assessment and possible termination. Monitoring Rate Adequacy We develop estimated rate minimums, which are designed to help achieve profitable results. Program Performance Management Our program performance management process consists of a series of reports that evaluates data associated with essential variables, and measures production, rate adequacy, loss analysis, adherence to guidelines, claims activity and trends. Claims Control Claims control is a critical factor in driving company performance. We view claims control as one of our core areas of expertise. We believe that assigning integrated teams in the claims, underwriting and actuarial areas to specific customer groups will produce the best results. By doing this, our claim handlers become familiar with the uniqueness of customers and their businesses. This approach encourages more insightful investigations, enhanced legal defenses and more efficient claims resolution. Also, we believe that improved communications between claims, underwriting and actuarial teams enhance risk selection, timely revision of underwriting criteria and program stability. Information Technology We are implementing an Internet-based technology system to allow our program teams and partner agents to control underwriting, policy issuance and claims administration. We believe that this centralized system, simultaneously accessible to us and our partner agents, will help us to reduce high processing costs and eliminate duplication of data. Historically, various parties to an insurance contract have stored data relating to the same transaction in their proprietary systems. As a result, we believe they have been unable to effectively integrate this information, which has resulted in difficulties with resolving disputes. We believe that processing insurance transactions should be user friendly and fully automated. Our objective is to use a system that would provide a real-time communication link with our partner agents and improve data communication throughout our company. Outsourcing Arrangements We entered into an arrangement with Syndicated Services Company, Inc., or SSC, for administrative and operation support dated November 1, 2003 for a term of 26 months. For the 2005 calendar year the Company was obligated to pay SSC a fee of approximately $8.8 million. On September 30, 2005, the Company and SSC mutually agreed to terminate the agreement effective December 31, 2005. We have substantially completed the transition process through both internal hiring and outsourcing to provide for these back office activities. Investment Philosophy Our investments are concentrated in highly liquid and highly rated instruments, primarily in fixed income securities, with reasonably short durations. Our portfolio of fixed maturities consists solely of investment grade bonds. We have no significant investment or industry concentrations. Our strategy considers liability durations and provides for unseen cash outflow needs. We use an external investment manager with significant assets under management and experience in insurance company portfolio requirements. 9 Table of Contents Competition We compete with a large number of major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers such as American International Group, Inc., or AIG, CNA Financial Corporation, or CNA, and ACE Limited, or ACE, in our selected lines of business such as workers’ compensation, automobile liability and general liability. We also face competition both from specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies and intermediaries, as well as diversified financial services companies such as W.R. Berkley Corporation, or W.R. Berkley, Markel Corporation, or Markel, Philadelphia Consolidated Holding Corporation, or Philadelphia, RLI Corporation, or RLI, Arch Insurance Group, or Arch, Meadowbrook Insurance Group, or Meadowbrook, Argonaut Insurance Company, or Argonaut, and Zurich Financial Services, or Zurich. Finally, for our California workers’ compensation business, we face competition from the State Compensation Insurance Fund. Our competitors have greater name and brand recognition than we have. Many of them also have higher financial strength and ratings assigned by independent ratings agencies and more (in some cases substantially more) capital and greater marketing and management resources than we have and may offer a broader range of products and more competitive pricing than we expect, or will be able, to offer. Our competitive position is based on many factors, including our perceived financial strength, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, geographic scope of business, client relationships, premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs), speed of claims payment, reputation, experience and qualifications of employees, and local presence. We work with a limited number of partner agents which enable us to provide them with customized approaches to their business and give them long term (five years) exclusive arrangements. Employees As of December 31, 2005, we had sixty full-time employees. Our future performance depends significantly on the continued service of our key personnel. None of our employees are covered by collective bargaining arrangements. We believe our employee relations are good. Ratings Our financial strength is regularly reviewed by independent rating agencies, who assign a rating based upon items such as results of operations, capital resources and minimum policyholders’ surplus requirements. We currently have a secure category rating of “B+” from A.M. Best. Some agents may be unwilling or unable to write certain lines of business with us because of our rating. We may seek to enter into fronting arrangements under which policies may be nominally written by a higher-rated insurer to allow our partner agents to produce business in these lines, but there can be no assurances that these arrangements will be available at a reasonable price or acceptable to agents. Regulation We develop our business through SUA Insurance Company, our wholly owned subsidiary. SUA Insurance Company is licensed to conduct insurance business in 42 states and the District of Columbia. General. Our operating subsidiary is subject to detailed regulation throughout the United States. Although there is limited federal regulation of the insurance business, each state has a comprehensive system for regulating insurers operating in that state. The laws of the various states establish supervisory agencies with broad authority to regulate, among other things, licenses to transact business, premium rates for certain coverages, trade practices, market conduct, agent licensing, policy forms, underwriting and claims practices, reserve adequacy, transactions with affiliates and insurer solvency. Many states also regulate investment activities on the basis of quality, distribution and other quantitative criteria. Further, most states compel participation in and regulate composition of various shared market mechanisms. States also have enacted legislation that regulates insurance holding company systems, including acquisitions, dividends, the terms of affiliate transactions, and other related matters. Our operating subsidiary is domiciled in Illinois. 10 Table of Contents Insurance companies also are affected by a variety of state and federal legislative and regulatory measures and judicial decisions that define and qualify the risks and benefits for which insurance is sought and provided. These include redefinitions of risk exposure in such areas as product liability, environmental damage and workers’ compensation. In addition, individual state insurance departments may prevent premium rates for some classes of insureds from reflecting the level of risk assumed by the insurer for those classes. Such developments may result in adverse effects on the profitability of various lines of insurance. In some cases, these adverse effects on profitability can be minimized, when possible, through the repricing of coverages if permitted by applicable regulations, or the limitation or cessation of the affected business, which may be restricted by state law. Most states have insurance laws requiring that property and casualty rate schedules, policy or coverage forms, and other information be filed with the state’s regulatory authority. In many cases, such rates and/or policy forms must be approved prior to use. A few states have recently considered or enacted limitations on the ability of insurers to share data used to compile rates. Insurance companies are required to file detailed annual reports with the state insurance regulators in each of the states in which they do business, and their business and accounts are subject to examination by such regulators at any time. In addition, these insurance regulators periodically examine each insurer’s financial condition, adherence to statutory accounting practices, and compliance with insurance department rules and regulations. Applicable state insurance laws, rather than federal bankruptcy laws, apply to the liquidation or reorganization of insurance companies. Insurance Regulation Concerning Change or Acquisition of Control. The insurance regulatory codes in our operating subsidiary’s domiciliary state contain provisions (subject to certain variations) to the effect that the acquisition of “control” of a domestic insurer or of any person that directly or indirectly controls a domestic insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the domiciliary insurance regulator. In general, a presumption of “control” arises from the direct or indirect ownership, control, possession with the power to vote or possession of proxies with respect to 10% or more of the voting securities of a domestic insurer or of a person that controls a domestic insurer. A person seeking to acquire control, directly or indirectly, of a domestic insurance company or of any person controlling a domestic insurance company generally must file with the relevant insurance regulatory authority a statement relating to the acquisition of control containing certain information required by statute and published regulations and provide a copy of such statement to the domestic insurer and obtain the prior approval of such regulatory agency for the acquisition. In addition, certain state insurance laws contain provisions that require pre-acquisition notification to state agencies of a change in control of a non-domestic insurance company admitted in that state. While such pre-acquisition notification statutes do not authorize the state agency to disapprove the change of control, such statutes do authorize certain remedies, including the issuance of a cease and desist order with respect to the non-domestic admitted insurer doing business in the state if certain conditions exist, such as undue market concentration. Regulation of Dividends and Other Payments from Our Operating Subsidiary. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our subsidiary. As a holding company with no other business operations, our primary sources of cash to meet our obligations, including principal and interest payments with respect to indebtedness, will be available dividends and other statutorily permitted payments, such as tax allocation payments and management and other fees, from our operating subsidiary. Our operating subsidiary is subject to various state statutory and regulatory restrictions, including regulatory restrictions that are imposed as a matter of administrative policy, applicable generally to any insurance company in its state of domicile, which limit the amount of dividends or distributions an insurance company may pay to its stockholders without prior regulatory approval. The restrictions are generally based on certain levels or percentages of surplus, investment income and operating income as determined in accordance with statutory accounting principals, or SAP, which differ from generally accepted accounting principals, or GAAP. Generally, dividends may be paid only out of earned surplus. In every case, surplus subsequent to the payment of any dividends must be reasonable in relation to an insurance company’s outstanding liabilities and must be adequate to meet its financial needs. 11 Table of Contents Illinois law provides that no dividend or other distribution may be declared or paid at any time except out of earned surplus, rather than contributed surplus. A dividend or other distribution may not be paid if the surplus of the domestic insurer is at an amount less than that required by Illinois law for the kind or kinds of business to be transacted by such insurer, nor when payment of a dividend or other distribution by such insurer would reduce its surplus to less than such amount. A domestic insurer, which is a member of a holding company system, must report to the insurance director, or the Director, all ordinary dividends or other distributions to stockholders within five business days following the declaration and no less than 10 business days prior to the payment thereof. Illinois law further provides that no domestic insurer, which is a member of a holding company system, may pay any extraordinary dividend or make any other extraordinary distribution to its securityholders until: (1) 30 days after the Director has received notice of the declaration thereof and has not within such period disapproved the payment; or (2) the Director approves such payment within the 30-day period. Illinois law defines an extraordinary dividend or distribution as “any dividend or distribution of cash or other property whose fair market value, together with that of other dividends or distributions, made within the period of 12 consecutive months ending on the date on which the proposed dividend is scheduled for payment or distribution exceeds the greater of: (a) 10% of the company’s surplus as regards policyholders as of the 31st day of December next preceding, or (b) the net income of the company for the 12-month period ending the 31st day of December next preceding, but does not include pro rata distributions of any class of the company’s own securities.” If insurance regulators determine that payment of a dividend or any other payments to an affiliate (such as payments under a tax-sharing agreement or payments for employee or other services) would, because of the financial condition of the paying insurance company or otherwise, be hazardous to such insurance company’s policyholders, the regulators may prohibit such payments that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval. Statutory Surplus and Capital. In connection with the licensing of insurance companies, an insurance regulator may limit or prohibit the writing of new business by an insurance company within its jurisdiction when, in the regulator’s judgment, the insurance company is not maintaining adequate statutory surplus or capital. We do not currently anticipate that any regulator would limit the amount of new business that our operating subsidiary may write. Risk-Based Capital. In order to enhance the regulation of insurer solvency, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, adopted in December 1993 a formula and model law to implement risk-based capital requirements for property and casualty insurance companies. These risk-based capital requirements are designed to assess capital adequacy and to raise the level of protection that statutory surplus provides for policyholder obligations. The risk-based capital model for property and casualty insurance companies measures three major areas of risk facing property and casualty insurers: • underwriting, which encompasses the risk of adverse loss developments and inadequate pricing; • declines in asset values arising from credit risk; and • declines in asset values arising from investment risks. Under the approved formula, an insurer’s statutory surplus is compared to its risk-based capital requirement. If this ratio is above a minimum threshold, no company or regulatory action is necessary. Below this threshold are four distinct action levels at which a regulator can intervene with increasing degrees of authority over an insurer as the ratio of surplus to risk-based capital requirement decreases. The four action levels include: • insurer is required to submit a plan for corrective action; • insurer is subject to examination, analysis and specific corrective action; • regulators may place insurer under regulatory control; and • regulators are required to place insurer under regulatory control. 12 Table of Contents Accreditation The NAIC has instituted its Financial Regulatory Accreditation Standards Program, or FRASP, in response to federal initiatives to regulate the business of insurance. FRASP provides a set of standards designed to establish effective state regulation of the financial condition of insurance companies. Under FRASP, a state must adopt certain laws and regulations, institute required regulatory practices and procedures, and have adequate personnel to enforce these laws and regulations in order to become an “accredited” state. Accredited states are not able to accept certain financial examination reports of insurers prepared solely by the regulatory agency in an unaccredited state. NAIC IRIS Ratios In the 1970s, the NAIC developed a set of financial relationships or “tests” called the Insurance Regulatory Information System, or IRIS, that were designed to facilitate early identification of companies that may require special attention by insurance regulatory authorities. Insurance companies submit data on an annual basis to the NAIC, which in turn analyzes the data utilizing ratios covering 12 categories of financial data with defined “usual ranges” for each category. An insurance company may fall out of the usual range for one or more ratios because of specific transactions that are in themselves immaterial or eliminated at the consolidated level. Generally, an insurance company may become subject to increased scrutiny if it falls outside the usual ranges on four or more of the ratios. Investment Regulation Our operating subsidiary is subject to state laws and regulations that require diversification of investment portfolios and that limit the amount of investments in certain investment categories. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may cause non-conforming investments to be treated as non-admitted assets for purposes of measuring statutory surplus and, in some instances, would require divestiture. As of December 31, 2005, we believe our investments complied with such laws and regulations. Guaranty Funds and Assigned Risk Plans Most states require all admitted insurance companies to participate in their respective guaranty funds that cover various claims against insolvent insurers. Solvent insurers licensed in these states are required to cover the losses paid on behalf of insolvent insurers by the guaranty funds and generally are subject to annual assessments in the state by its guaranty fund to cover these losses. Some states also require licensed insurance companies to participate in assigned risk plans that provide coverage for automobile insurance and other lines for insureds that, for various reasons, cannot otherwise obtain insurance in the open market. This participation may take the form of reinsuring a portion of a pool of policies or the direct issuance of policies to insureds. The calculation of an insurer’s participation in these plans is usually based on the amount of premium for that type of coverage that was written by the insurer on a voluntary basis in a prior year. Participation in assigned risk pools tends to produce losses that result in assessments to insurers writing the same lines on a voluntary basis. Credit for Reinsurance A primary insurer ordinarily will enter into a reinsurance agreement only if it can obtain credit for the reinsurance ceded on its statutory financial statements. In general, credit for reinsurance is allowed in the following circumstances: • if the reinsurer is licensed in the state in which the primary insurer is domiciled or, in some instances, in certain states in which the primary insurer is licensed; • if the reinsurer is an “accredited” or otherwise approved reinsurer in the state in which the primary insurer is domiciled or, in some instances, in certain states in which the primary insurer is licensed; in some instances, 13 Table of Contents • if the reinsurer (1) is domiciled in a state that is deemed to have substantially similar credit for reinsurance standards as the state in which the primary insurer is domiciled and (2) meets financial requirements; or • if none of the above apply, to the extent that the reinsurance obligations of the reinsurer are secured appropriately, typically through the posting of a letter of credit for the benefit of the primary insurer or the deposit of assets into a trust fund established for the benefit of the primary insurer. Statutory Accounting Principles Statutory accounting principles, or SAP, is a basis of accounting developed to assist insurance regulators in monitoring and regulating the solvency of insurance companies. It is primarily concerned with measuring an insurer’s surplus to policyholders. Accordingly, statutory accounting focuses on valuing assets and liabilities of insurers at financial reporting dates in accordance with appropriate insurance law and regulatory provisions applicable in each insurer’s domiciliary state. GAAP is concerned with a company’s solvency, but it is also concerned with other financial measurements, such as income and cash flows. Accordingly, GAAP gives more consideration to appropriate matching of revenue and expenses and accounting for management’s stewardship of assets than does SAP. As a direct result, different assets and liabilities and different amounts of assets and liabilities will be reflected in financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP as opposed to SAP. Statutory accounting practices established by the NAIC and adopted, in part, by state insurance departments will determine, among other things, the amount of our statutory surplus and statutory net income, which will affect, in part, the amount of funds our operating subsidiary has available to pay dividends to us. Federal Regulation Although state regulation is the dominant form of regulation for insurance and reinsurance business, the federal government has shown increasing concern over the adequacy of state regulation. It is not possible to predict the future impact of any potential federal regulations or other possible laws or regulations on our capital and operations, and the enactment of such laws or the adoption of such regulations could materially adversely affect our business. The Gramm Leach Bliley Act, or GLBA, which made fundamental changes in the regulation of the financial services industry in the United States, was enacted on November 12, 1999. The GLBA permits the transformation of the already converging banking, insurance and securities industries by permitting mergers that combine commercial banks, insurers and securities firms under one holding company, a “financial holding company.” Bank holding companies and other entities that qualify and elect to be treated as financial holding companies may engage in activities, and acquire companies engaged in activities, that are “financial” in nature or “incidental” or “complementary” to such financial activities. Such financial activities include acting as principal, agent or broker in the underwriting and sale of life, property, casualty and other forms of insurance and annuities. Until the passage of the GLBA, the Glass-Steagall Act of 1933 had limited the ability of banks to engage in securities-related businesses, and the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, had restricted banks from being affiliated with insurers. With the passage of the GLBA, among other things, bank holding companies may acquire insurers and insurance holding companies may acquire banks. The ability of banks to affiliate with insurers may affect our product lines by substantially increasing the number, size and financial strength of potential competitors. In response to the tightening of supply in some insurance markets resulting from, among other things, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, or TRIA, was enacted to ensure the availability of insurance coverage for terrorist acts in the United States. Although TRIA originally contained a sunset provision expiring December 31, 2005, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, or Extension Act, was enacted extending TRIA for two additional years. These laws establish a federal assistance program to help the commercial property and casualty insurance industry cover claims related to 14 Table of Contents certified acts of terrorism, regulate the terms of insurance relating to terrorism coverage and require some U.S. commercial property and casualty insurers to make available to their policyholders terrorism insurance coverage for certified acts of terrorism at the same limits and terms as is available for other coverages. Exclusions or sub-limit coverage for certified acts of terrorism may be established, but solely at the discretion of the insured. A certified act of terrorism is defined by the Extension Act as an act of terrorism, resulting in aggregate losses greater than $5 million through March 31, 2006, $50 million for the remainder of 2006, and $100 million in 2007. An act of terrorism is a loss that is violent or dangerous to human life, property or infrastructure, resulting in damage within the United State or its territories and possessions, or outside the United States in the case of a U.S. flagged vessel, air carrier or mission, committed by an individual or individuals acting on behalf of any foreign person or foreign interest in an effort to coerce the U.S. civilian population or influence the policy of or affect the U.S. government’s conduct by coercion. As with TRIA, we are currently unable to predict the extent to which the Extension Act may affect the demand for our products or the risks that may be available for us to consider underwriting. The extent to which coverage for acts of terrorism will be offered by the insurance and reinsurance markets in the future remain to be uncertain and we may or may not offer such coverage in the future. Legislative and Regulatory Proposals From time to time, various regulatory and legislative changes have been proposed in the insurance and reinsurance industry. These proposals have included the possible introduction of federal regulation in addition to, or in lieu of, the current system of state regulation of insurers. We are unable to predict whether any of these or other proposed laws and regulations will be adopted, the form in which any such laws and regulations would be adopted, or the effect, if any, these developments would have on our operations and financial condition. Executive Officers of the Registrant Our executive officers are as follows: Name Age Position Courtney C. Smith 58 Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors Peter E. Jokiel 58 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Director William S. Loder 57 Senior Vice President and Chief Underwriting Officer Gary J. Ferguson 62 Senior Vice President and Chief Claims Officer Scott W. Goodreau 38 Vice President, General Counsel, Administration and Corporate Relations, and Secretary Scott K. Charbonneau 47 Vice President and Chief Actuary Barry G. Cordeiro 59 Vice President and Chief Information Officer Courtney C. Smith. Chief Executive Officer, President and Director. Mr. Smith was appointed as the Chairman of our board in May 2004, as our President and a director in April 2003 and as our Chief Executive Officer in December 2003. Mr. Smith has over 30 years of experience in the property and casualty insurance industry. Prior to joining us, from April 1999 to April 2002, Mr. Smith served as Chief Executive Officer and President of TIG Specialty Insurance, or TIG, a leading specialty insurance underwriter. While at TIG, Mr. Smith was instrumental in restructuring the company and changed TIG from an outsourced company to a controlled program specialty company. Peter E. Jokiel. Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Director. Mr. Jokiel was appointed as our Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and a director in December 2003 and was appointed as our Executive Vice President in June 2004. Mr. Jokiel has over 30 years experience in the insurance 15 Table of Contents industry. From April 1997 to January 2001, Mr. Jokiel was President and Chief Executive Officer of CNA Financial Corporation’s life operations. William S. Loder. Senior Vice President and Chief Underwriting Officer. Mr. Loder was appointed as our Senior Vice President and Chief Underwriting Officer in December 2003. Mr. Loder has over 30 years of experience in the insurance industry. From July 2000 to July 2002, Mr. Loder worked for TIG Specialty Insurance, where he was responsible for corporate strategies, planning and company underwriting. Gary J. Ferguson. Senior Vice President and Chief Claims Officer. Mr. Ferguson was appointed our Senior Vice President and Chief Claims Officer in December 2003. Mr. Ferguson has over 30 years of experience in the insurance industry. From February 2002 to July 2003, Mr. Ferguson was managing director responsible for claims functions at TIG Specialty Insurance. From December 1997 to October 2001, Mr. Ferguson served as Senior Vice President for Zenith Insurance Company. Scott W. Goodreau. Vice President, General Counsel, Administration and Corporate Relations. Mr. Goodreau was appointed General Counsel on November 17, 2004 and Vice President Administration and Corporate Relations on March 8, 2005. From December 2003 until the completion of our public offering, Mr. Goodreau worked for us as an independent contractor. Before joining SUA, Mr. Goodreau worked as Vice President & General Counsel for AscendantOne, Inc., a business unit of Insurance Services Office, Inc. in the insurance technology field. Mr. Goodreau also worked as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of a real estate development company and as an associate at Cahill Gordon & Reindel in its corporate department. Mr. Goodreau is a graduate of Harvard Law School. Scott K. Charbonneau. Vice President and Chief Actuary. Mr. Charbonneau was appointed our Chief Actuary in January 2005 and Vice President on March 8, 2005. Mr. Charbonneau has over 20 years of experience in the insurance industry, most recently serving as Vice President and Chief Reserving Officer for Kemper Insurance Companies from 2001 to 2004. Mr. Charbonneau also served as Chief Actuary and held other various offices at Interstate Insurance Company from 1993 to 2001. Barry G. Cordeiro. Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Mr. Cordeiro was appointed our Chief Information Officer in July 2005 and Vice President on August 9, 2005. Mr. Cordeiro has over 20 years of experience in programming, developing and managing software and hardware for various businesses, including significant experience in the insurance industry. From 2003 to 2005, Mr. Cordeiro served as President of Chicago Financial Technology and from 1999-2001, Mr. Cordeiro served as Chief Information Officer and EVP of the eBusiness group of CNA Insurance. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We believe the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are material to an understanding of our company. Any of the following risks as well as other risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and cause the value of our stock to decline, which could cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that are currently deemed immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. We have a limited operating history. If we are unable to implement our business strategy or operate our business as we currently expect, our results may be adversely affected. We effectively commenced operations with the closing of our initial public offering, but did not start to write insurance policies until the first quarter of 2005. The business of Potomac, our accounting predecessor, is not representative of or comparable with our primary business strategy. Businesses, such as ours, that are in their initial stages of development present substantial business and financial risks and may suffer significant losses. Additionally, we are still in the process of developing business relations, continuing to establish operating procedures, and implementing new systems. If we are unable to implement these actions in a timely manner, our results may be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We rely on a limited number of partner agents. Our failure to recruit and retain partner agents could materially adversely affect our results. Our transition of our partner agents’ business may significantly delay our ability to generate revenue. We have only six partner agents. We have entered into a non-binding letter of intent with an additional partner agent. We hope to enter into additional agent relationships in the future. Our ability to recruit and retain partner agents may be negatively impacted by certain aspects of our business model, including our requirement that partner agents defer and make contingent a portion of their agency commissions and purchase, or commit to purchase, shares of our Class B common stock. Our ability to add new partner agents may be limited by our level of capital. In addition, due to our limited number of partner agents, a lack of premium production from any one partner agent may adversely effect our business. Because we are unlikely to seek or obtain mid-term cancellations of existing policies produced by our partner agents, we will seek to transition policies over a 12-month period as they are renewed. We will be unable to generate premium revenue until policies are written by us, and a delay in our ability to write or transition policies could lead to a significant delay in our ability to generate substantial revenue. We have received a secure category rating of “B+” (Very Good) from A.M. Best. A future downgrade in our ratings could affect our competitive position with customers and our rating may put us at a disadvantage with higher-rated carriers. Competition in the types of insurance business that we underwrite is based on many factors, including the perceived financial strength of the insurer and ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. A.M. Best Company, Inc., or A.M. Best, is generally considered to be a significant rating agency with respect to the evaluation of insurance companies. A.M. Best’s ratings are based on a quantitative evaluation of a company’s performance with respect to profitability, leverage, and liquidity and a qualitative evaluation of spread of risk, investments, reinsurance programs, reserves and management. Insurance ratings are used by customers, reinsurers and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. We have received a secure category rating of “B+” (Very Good) from A.M. Best, which is the sixth highest of 15 rating levels and indicates A.M. Best’s opinion of our financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to our future policyholders. The rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our securities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this rating. If we experience a significant ratings downgrade, we may experience a substantial loss of business as policyholders might purchase insurance from companies with higher claims-paying and financial strength ratings instead of from us. Our rating may place us at a competitive disadvantage or cause us to incur additional expenses. Certain financial institutions and banks require property owners with loans to be insured by insurers with at least an “A-” rating by A.M. Best. Certain other insureds choose to insure their own property and casualty risks only with such higher-rated insurers. Also, due to financial responsibility laws, some states and the federal government require certain regulated entities to purchase mandatory insurance from insurers holding a minimum of “A-” rating by A.M. Best. Some agents may be unwilling or unable to write certain lines of business such as property, long-tail liability lines and automobile liability with insurers that are not rated at least “A-” by A.M Best. We may seek to enter into fronting arrangements under which policies may be nominally written by a higher rated insurer to allow our partner agents to produce business in these lines, but there can be no assurances that these arrangements will be available at a reasonable price or acceptable to agents, and the cost of these arrangements will reduce our operating profit. A delay or other problem in the implementation of our centralized technology system could have a material adverse effect on our business plan. We are implementing a centralized technology system for underwriting, policy issuance and claims administration through each partner agent’s website. We must rely on our chosen vendors in integrating their technology in order to implement our system and they have relatively limited experience in doing so. As a 17 Table of Contents result, we cannot assure you that our vendors will be able to develop our technology system for us in a timely manner and at the price we anticipate. A delay in implementation of our centralized technology system would inhibit us from automating our underwriting, policy issuance and claims administration. Instead, we would need to manually process our policies and claims that could lead to less efficiency and the possibility of a decrease in premium volume. Accordingly, a delay or other problems in our implementation schedule could have a material adverse effect on our business plan. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We expect that our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover our losses. Maintaining adequate capital consistent with business objectives and regulatory requirements is critical to any insurer’s future, and particularly important to start-up companies such as ours. We believe that our current level of capital is sufficient, but would need to be augmented to further expand our business strategy, enter new business lines, and manage our expected growth or to deal with higher than expected expenses or poorer than expected results. We are presently looking at a variety of financing alternatives including the potential issuance of a trust preferred security that would provide capital for future growth. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are able to raise capital through equity financings, your interest in our company would be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior. If we cannot obtain additional adequate capital, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business is heavily concentrated in California and Florida. If our premiums are reduced in these states in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently write approximately 82% of our business in California and Florida. We may be unable to write in these states in the future due to regulatory prohibitions such as disapproval of policy forms and premium rates, inability to meet solvency standards or revocation of our licenses. We may also face competition that reduces our premiums in these states. A reduction in our premium volume in these states could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may misevaluate the risks we seek to insure. If we misevaluate these risks, our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We were formed to provide commercial lines insurance to specialty program markets through our operating subsidiary. The market for commercial lines insurance to specialty programs differs significantly from the standard market. In the standard market, insurance rates and forms are highly regulated, products and coverages are largely uniform and have relatively predictable exposures and companies tend to compete for customers on the basis of price. In contrast, the specialty market provides coverage for risks that do not fit the underwriting criteria of most standard carriers. We expect that our success will depend on the ability of our underwriters to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure. We expect that underwriting for specialty program lines will require us to make assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. Such matters include, but are not limited to the effects of future inflation on our claim trends, future law changes in jurisdictions where we do business, judicial interpretations regarding policy coverage, the predictability and frequency of catastrophic events, and medical protocol changes. If we fail to adequately evaluate the risks to be insured, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, since our claims experience could be significantly different than what we assumed in our pricing, resulting in reduced underwriting profits or underwriting losses. Our actual insured losses may be greater than our loss reserves, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operation. Our success depends upon our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses that we insure. Significant periods of time often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the 18 Table of Contents loss to an insurer and payment by the insurer of that loss. As we write insurance business and recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, we establish reserves as balance sheet liabilities. These reserves represent estimates of amounts needed to pay reported losses and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expense. Loss reserves are only an estimate of what an insurer anticipates the ultimate costs of claims to be and do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Estimating loss reserves is a difficult and complex process involving many variables and subjective judgments, particularly for new companies, such as ours, that have limited loss development experience. As part of our reserving process, we review historical data as well as actuarial and statistical projections and consider the impact of various factors such as: • trends in claim frequency and severity; • changes in operations; • emerging economic and social trends; • inflation; and • changes in the regulatory and litigation environments. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future events. There is no precise method, however, for evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, and actual results are likely to differ from original estimates. In addition, unforeseen losses, the type or magnitude of which we cannot predict, may emerge in the future. To the extent our loss reserves are insufficient to cover actual losses or loss adjustment expenses, we will have to add to these loss reserves and incur a charge to our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of underwriting and cash flows. We compete with a large number of companies in the insurance industry for underwriting revenues. We compete with a large number of other companies in our selected lines of business. We compete with major U.S. and non-U.S. insurers such as AIG, CNA, and ACE, that offer the lines of insurance that we offer and that target the same market as we do and utilize similar business strategies. We face competition both from specialty insurance companies, underwriting agencies and intermediaries, as well as diversified financial services companies such as W.R. Berkley, Markel, Philadelphia, RLI, Arch, Meadowbrook, Argonaut, and Zurich. Other newly formed and existing insurance companies also may be preparing to enter the same market segments in which we compete or raise new capital. Since we have limited operating history, we expect that our competitors will have greater name and brand recognition than we have. Many of them also have higher financial strength and ratings assigned by independent ratings agencies and more (in some cases substantially more) capital and greater marketing and management resources than we have and may offer a broader range of products and more competitive pricing than we offer. Our competitive position is based on many factors, including our perceived financial strength, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, geographic scope of business, client relationships, premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs), speed of claims payment, reputation, experience and qualifications of employees and local presence. We choose types and lines of businesses (tow trucks, workers’ compensation) that do not require “A” level A.M. Best ratings. We work with a limited number of partner agents which will enable us to provide them with customized approaches to their business and give them long term (five years) exclusive arrangements. Our systems capability is designed for this type of business which enables us to change and adapt quicker to changes in the marketplace. Since we have recently commenced operations, we may not be able to compete successfully on many, or any, of these bases. In addition, some companies in our lines of business are increasing their capital-raising activities, which could result in additional new entrants to our markets and an excess of capital in the industry. If competition limits our ability to write new business at adequate rates, our return on capital may be adversely affected. In addition, a number of new, proposed or potential legislative or industry developments could further increase competition in our industry. In certain states, state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in 19 Table of Contents catastrophe-prone areas or other “alternative markets” types of coverage. Furthermore, the growth of services offered over the Internet may lead to greater competition in the insurance business. New competition from these developments could cause the supply and/or demand for insurance to change, which could adversely affect our underwriting results. We may be subject to losses if OneBeacon fails to honor its reinsurance obligations to us. Our subsidiary, SUA Insurance Company, has a transfer and assumption agreement with OneBeacon whereby all of SUA Insurance Company’s liabilities existing as of the acquisition of Potomac, including all direct liabilities under existing insurance policies, were ceded to and assumed by OneBeacon. The legal requirements to transfer insurance obligations from one insurer to another, sometimes referred to as a novation, vary from state to state, generally based on the state in which the policy was issued. In some states, if certain notifications are made to policyholders and they do not object to the transfer within certain periods of time, they are deemed to have agreed to the transfer. In other states, policyholders must consent to the transfer in writing. Additionally, in some states insurance regulatory approval is required in addition to policyholder consents. To the extent the legal requirements for novation have been met, OneBeacon will become directly liable to those policyholders for any claims arising from insured events under the policy, and SUA Insurance Company’s obligation to those policyholders would cease. Accordingly, SUA Insurance Company would extinguish any recorded liabilities to such policyholders and the related reinsurance recoverables, so no gain or loss would occur. Until a novation is achieved, SUA Insurance Company continues to be directly liable to legacy policyholders for claims arising under their policies, but has reinsurance coverage from OneBeacon to reimburse SUA Insurance Company for any such claims. Thus, SUA Insurance Company should not experience any gains or losses with respect to such legacy policies unless OneBeacon failed to honor its reinsurance obligation to SUA Insurance Company. In the event of the failure to pay by OneBeacon, SUA Insurance Company could experience losses that could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner, our ability to generate revenue could be delayed. We must successfully receive approval of our rates and forms in order to issue policies in certain jurisdictions. Our partner agents cannot begin to transition policies to be written in those states to us until we have completed this process. Because we are unlikely to seek or obtain mid-term cancellations of existing policies produced by our partner agents, we will seek to transition policies over a 12-month period as they are renewed. We will be unable to generate premium revenue until policies are written by us, and a delay in our ability to write or transition policies could lead to a significant delay in our ability to generate substantial amounts of revenue. Our reliance on retail agents to market our products subjects us to their credit risk. We market our insurance products primarily through retail insurance agents who produce business for our partner agents. Our clients pay premiums for insurance policies to a retail agent for payment over to us. These premiums are considered to have been paid and, in most cases, the client will no longer be liable to us for those amounts. We also make claims payments to these agents and under local law we are likely to be liable to our client if the agent does not forward the claim payment to the client. Consequently, we assume a degree of credit risk associated with retail agents with respect to most of our insurance business. We receive business from many retail agents and will not be able to determine the creditworthiness of all of them. 20 Table of Contents The availability of reinsurance that we use to limit our exposure to risks may be limited, and counterparty credit and other risks associated with our reinsurance arrangements may result in losses that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. To limit our risk of loss, we use reinsurance. The availability and cost of reinsurance protection is subject to market conditions, which are beyond our control. Currently, there is a high level of demand for these arrangements, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain, or in the future renew, adequate protection at cost-effective levels. For our workers’ compensation business, our reinsurers are responsible for losses between $1 million and $5 million due to any single occurrence under a policy and for losses in excess of $5 million up to $24 million for a multiple loss occurrence. For our non-workers’ compensation casualty business, we do not write policies above $1 million and therefore do not need reinsurance protection. For this business, our reinsurers are responsible between $1 million and $19 million of losses for a multiple loss occurrence. As a result of market conditions and other factors, we may not be able to successfully alleviate risk through reinsurance. Further, we expect to be subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance arrangements because the ceding of risk to reinsurers will not relieve us of our liability to the clients or companies we insure. Our failure to establish adequate reinsurance arrangements or the failure of our reinsurance arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The occurrence of severe catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect on us. We underwrite property and casualty insurance which covers catastrophic events. Therefore, we have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made disasters, such as hurricane, typhoon, windstorm, flood, earthquake, acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. We expect that our loss experience generally will include infrequent events of great severity. Although we may attempt to exclude losses from terrorism and other similar risks from some coverages we write, we may not be successful in doing so. The risks associated with natural and man-made disasters are inherently unpredictable, and it is difficult to predict the timing of such events with statistical certainty or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. While we attempt to limit our net exposure in any area and to any one catastrophe, we may not be able to do so. Therefore, the occurrence of losses from catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. These losses could adversely affect our net worth and reduce our stockholders’ equity and statutory surplus of our operating subsidiary (which is the amount remaining after all liabilities, including loss reserves, are subtracted from all admitted assets, as determined under statutory accounting principles, or SAP). A decrease in statutory surplus would adversely affect our operating subsidiary’s ability to write new business. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years and we expect that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge with respect to various segments of our business. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, the effects of these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. An example of this is a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of business in our industry. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Recent federal legislation may negatively affect the business opportunities we perceive are available to us in the market. The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, or TRIA, was enacted by the U.S. Congress and became effective in November 2002 in response to the tightening of supply in some insurance markets resulting from, among other things, the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001. Although TRIA originally contained a sunset provision expiring December 31, 2005, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005, or Extension Act, was enacted extending TRIA for two additional years. TRIA applies to the insurance written by us. TRIA requires some U.S. commercial property and casualty insurers, including us, to make available to their policyholders terrorism insurance coverage for certified acts of terrorism at the same limits and terms as are available for other coverages. Exclusions or sub-limit coverage for certified acts of terrorism may be established, but solely at the discretion of an insured. We are currently unable to predict the extent to which TRIA may affect the demand for our products, or the risks that may be available for them to consider underwriting. We may or may not offer such coverage in the future and if we do offer coverage we are unable to assure the adequacy of the premium we will charge to cover losses. A significant amount of our invested assets is subject to market volatility and we may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. We invest the premiums we receive from customers and our investment portfolio initially consists of highly rated and liquid fixed income securities. The fair market value of these assets and the investment income from these assets will fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. Because we classify substantially all of our invested assets as available for sale, changes in the market value of our securities will be reflected in our consolidated balance sheet. In addition, we expect that market fluctuations and market volatility will affect the value of our investment portfolio and could adversely affect our liquidity. Our investment results and, therefore, our financial condition may be impacted by changes in the business, financial condition or results of operations of the entities in which we invest, as well as changes in interest rates, government monetary policies, general economic conditions and overall market conditions. Our investment portfolio contains interest rate-sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may arise under insurance policies, we expect our liquidity needs will be substantial and may arise at any time. Increases in interest rates during periods when we sell investments to satisfy liquidity needs may result in losses. Changes in interest rates also could have an adverse effect on our investment income and results of operations and may expose us to prepayment risks on certain fixed income investments. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we attempt to take measures to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. Our mitigation efforts include maintaining a high quality portfolio with a relatively short duration to reduce the effect of interest rate changes on book value. Despite our mitigation efforts, a significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our book value. Our profitability may be adversely impacted by inflation. The effects of inflation could cause the severity of claims from catastrophes or other events to rise in the future. We expect that our reserve for losses and loss adjustment expenses will include assumptions about future payments for settlement of claims and claims handling expenses, such as medical treatments and litigation costs and the length of time claims are settled and paid. To the extent inflation causes these costs to increase above reserves established for these costs (particularly on liability coverages which often take many years to settle), we expect to be required to increase our loss reserves with a corresponding reduction in our net income in the period in which the deficiency is identified. 22 Table of Contents Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. We are a holding company. As a result, we do not have, and expect to not have, any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of the shares of our subsidiary. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our operating subsidiary are our primary source of funds to pay dividends, if any, to stockholders and to meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments and other expenses. The inability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders is subject to statutory and regulatory restrictions under Illinois law, including restrictions imposed as a matter of administrative policy, which are applicable generally to any insurance company in its state of domicile that limit such payments or distributions without prior approval by regulatory authorities. Illinois law provides that no dividend or other distribution may be declared or paid at any time except out of earned surplus, rather than contributed surplus. A dividend or other distribution may not be paid if the surplus of the domestic insurer is at an amount less than that required by Illinois law for the kind or kinds of business to be transacted by such insurer, or when payment of a dividend or other distribution by such insurer would reduce its surplus to less than such amount. Additionally, if insurance regulators determine that payment of a dividend or any other payments to an affiliate would, because of the financial condition of the paying insurance company or otherwise, be hazardous to such insurance company’s policyholders, the regulators may prohibit such payments that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval. Illinois law provides that a domestic insurer which is a member of a holding company system may not pay any extraordinary dividend nor make any other extraordinary distribution to its securityholders until 30 days after the Director has received notice of the declaration thereof and has not within such period disapproved the payment unless the Director approves such payment within the 30-day period. Illinois law defines an extraordinary dividend or distribution as “any dividend or distribution of cash or other property whose fair market value, together with that of other dividends or distributions, made within the period of 12 consecutive months ending on the date on which the proposed dividend is scheduled for payment or distribution exceeds the greater of: (a) 10% of the company’s surplus as regards policyholders as of the 31st day of December next preceding, or (b) the net income of the company for the 12-month period ending the 31st day of December next preceding, but does not include pro rata distributions of any class of the company’s own securities. We are subject to extensive regulation, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. If we do not comply with these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including fines, suspensions and withdrawals of licenses, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. These regulations, generally administered by a department of insurance in each jurisdiction in which we expect to do business, relate to, among other things: • approval of policy forms and premium rates; • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; • licensing of insurers and their agents; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on the ability of our insurance company subsidiary to pay dividends to us; • restrictions on transactions between insurance company subsidiaries and their affiliates; 23 Table of Contents • restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; • requiring certain methods of accounting; • periodic examinations of our operations and finances; • prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and • requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes. For example, our operating subsidiary is subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by the laws of the jurisdictions in which it is licensed to transact an insurance business. As of December 31, 2005, the capital and surplus of our operating subsidiary was approximately $80 million. If our operating subsidiary does not maintain the required minimum capital and surplus of any jurisdiction in which it is licensed, it could be subject to regulatory action in such jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, the suspension or revocation of its license to transact an insurance business in such jurisdiction. No jurisdiction in which our operating subsidiary is licensed has minimum capital and surplus requirements in excess of $35 million for the lines of insurance for which our operating subsidiary is licensed. Additionally, if our operating subsidiary does not maintain the required minimum capital and surplus for Illinois, its state of domicile (which currently is $2.2 million), it could be placed into receivership in Illinois. Also, any new minimum capital and surplus requirements adopted in the future may require us to increase the capital and surplus of our operating subsidiary, which we may not be able to do. Insurance departments also conduct periodic examinations of the affairs of insurance companies and require the filing of annual and other reports relating to financial condition, holding company issues and other matters. These regulatory requirements may adversely affect or inhibit our ability to achieve some or all of our business objectives. In addition, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. We base some of our practices on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe are generally followed by the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. This could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Further, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework in the United States has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Moreover, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, which is an association of the senior insurance regulatory officials of all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws, which may be more restrictive or may result in higher costs to us than current statutory requirements. Our results of operations and revenues may fluctuate as a result of many factors, including cyclical changes in the insurance industry, which may cause the price of our shares to decline. The results of operations of companies in the insurance industry historically have been subject to significant fluctuations and uncertainties. Our profitability can be affected significantly by: • the differences between actual and expected losses that we cannot reasonably anticipate using historical loss data and other identifiable factors at the time we price our products; • volatile and unpredictable developments, including man-made, weather-related and other natural catastrophes or terrorist attacks, or court grants of large awards for particular damages; 24 Table of Contents • changes in the amount of loss reserves resulting from new types of claims and new or changing judicial interpretations relating to the scope of insurers’ liabilities; and • fluctuations in equity markets, interest rates, credit risk and foreign currency exposure, inflationary pressures and other changes in the investment environment, which affect returns on invested assets and may impact the ultimate payout of losses. In addition, the demand for the types of insurance we will offer can vary significantly, rising as the overall level of economic activity increases and falling as that activity decreases, causing our revenues to fluctuate. These fluctuations in results of operations and revenues may cause the price of our securities to be volatile. We do not currently intend to pay dividends to our stockholders and any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. We currently intend to retain any profits to provide capacity to write insurance and to accumulate reserves and surplus for the payment of claims. As a result, our board of directors currently does not intend to declare dividends or make any other distributions to our stockholders. Our board of directors plans to periodically reevaluate our dividend policy. Any determination to pay dividends to our stockholders in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Consequently, it is uncertain when, if ever, we will declare dividends to our stockholders. If no dividends are paid, investors will only obtain a return on their investment if the value of our shares of common stock appreciates. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could prevent or delay transactions that stockholders may favor and entrench current management. We are incorporated in Delaware. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable, including a provision that authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock with such voting rights, dividend rates, liquidation, redemption, conversion and other rights as our board of directors may fix and without further stockholder action. The issuance of preferred stock with voting rights could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. This can frustrate a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. Takeover attempts generally include offering stockholders a premium for their stock. Therefore, preventing a takeover attempt may cause you to lose an opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Delaware law also prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. This provision may prevent changes in our management or corporate structure. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors is permitted to and may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. Delaware law provides that no person shall enter into an agreement to merge with or acquire control of any person controlling a domestic insurer (including an insurance holding company) unless, at the time any such agreement is entered into, the agreement or acquisition has been approved by the Commissioner of the Delaware Department of Insurance. Control is presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the voting securities of any other person. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 