Item 1A. Risk Factors—Risks Related to India and the International Nature of our Business—Our financial condition could be negatively affected if the Government of India reduces or withdraws tax benefits and other incentives it currently provides to companies within our industry, or if the same are not available for other reasons.” Our subsidiaries in India are also subject to certain currency transfer restrictions. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Income Tax” and “—Foreign Currency.” 15 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related To Our Business We have a limited number of clients and provide services to few industries. In 2007, 51.7% of our total revenues came from two clients. We have derived and believe that we will continue to derive a substantial portion of our total revenues from a limited number of large clients. In 2007, our two largest clients, Norwich Union and Centrica, accounted for 51.7% of our total revenues under several contracts. We generated 27.0% of our total revenues in 2007 from Norwich Union and 24.7% of our total revenues in 2007 from Centrica. We provide services to Norwich Union under two framework agreements and work orders generated by these agreements. The first framework agreement and all work orders under that agreement cannot be terminated by our client without cause prior to May 2008. The second framework agreement expires in July 2009 and can be terminated by our client without cause upon six months prior notice and payment to us of a break-up fee during its initial term. After these initial terms, Norwich Union may terminate these agreements without cause or penalty with six months notice. We provide services to Centrica under an agreement that has an initial term that expires in January 2009 and that can be terminated by Centrica for cause only during its initial term. We expect that a significant portion of our total revenues will continue to be contributed by a limited number of large clients in the near future. The loss or financial difficulties of any of our large clients would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A substantial portion of our BPO clients are concentrated in the insurance, banking and financial services sector. In 2007, 64.3% of our BPO revenues were derived from clients in those industries, including 51.5% of our BPO revenues that were derived from clients in the insurance industry. Our business and growth largely depend on continued demand for our services from clients and potential clients in these industries and those industries where we are focusing expansion efforts, such as utilities, healthcare, telecommunications and transportation. These industries have been cyclical and vulnerable to significant downturns in the past, and adverse developments in these industries could unfavorably affect our business. Other developments, such as consolidation, particularly involving our clients, could also cause the demand for our services in these industries to decline. In addition, our agreement with Norwich Union also contains certain restrictions (limited in duration or scope) on our ability to provide services to certain competitors of this entity without the approval of this entity. Our agreements with our largest client give it the option to assume the operations of one of our facilities and operating subsidiaries, and the exercise of that option could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under one of our agreements with Norwich Union, our largest client, Norwich Union has the option from May 2008 through February 2011 to purchase the shares of our subsidiary that operates one of our facilities in Pune, India, by paying us an amount approximating the net asset value of that facility on the date of transfer. The affected facility generated 15.5% of our total revenues in 2007 and 18.9% of our total revenues in 2006. Norwich Union has recently exercised its option to assume the operations of the facilities of two of its third party vendor-contractors and has publicly announced its intention to undertake a strategic review of its Indian operations, which could result in Norwich Union electing to modify or terminate its relationship with us. In addition, under our other agreement with Norwich Union, it also has the option to purchase certain of the assets of our operating subsidiary ExlService.com (India) Private Limited, an Indian corporation, which we refer to as EXL India, for the book value of those assets if we are in a material default of our agreement and such default affects the insurance services provided by more than 300 of our full-time employees or prejudices or is likely to prejudice the reputation of Norwich Union or its affiliates, or if there is a change of control that is not approved by Norwich Union. The exercise of either of these options would result in both a loss of revenues and a loss of our employees who are at that time working in the related facilities. 16 Table of Contents We may fail to attract and retain enough sufficiently trained employees to support our operations, as competition for highly skilled personnel is intense and we experience significant employee turnover rates. The BPO industry is very labor intensive and our success depends to a significant extent on our ability to attract, hire, train and retain qualified employees, including our ability to attract employees with needed skills in the geographic areas in which we operate. The industry, including us, experiences high employee turnover. In 2007, our turnover rate for billable employees was approximately 38.2%. There is significant competition for professionals with skills necessary to perform the services we offer to our clients. Increased competition for these professionals, in the BPO industry or otherwise, could have an adverse effect on us. A significant increase in the turnover rate among our employees, particularly among the highly skilled workforce needed to provide BPO services, would increase our recruiting and training costs and decrease our operating efficiency, productivity and profit margins, and could lead to a decline in demand for our services. High turnover rates generally do not impact our revenues as we factor the attrition rate into our pricing models by maintaining additional employees for each process. However, high turnover rates do increase our cost of revenues and therefore impact our profit margins due to higher recruitment, training and retention costs as a result of maintaining larger hiring, training and human resources departments and higher operating costs due to having to reallocate certain business processes among our operating facilities where we have access to the skilled workforce needed for the business. In 2007, we incurred approximately $2.6 million on recruitment and approximately $0.7 million on training costs due to employee turnover, thereby increasing our cost of revenues and reducing our profit margins for that period by $3.3 million. In addition, competition for outsourcing professionals in the Philippines, where we are in the process of establishing a new operations facility that we expect to become operational during the second quarter of 2008, is expected to increase as additional outsourcing companies and other companies with a demand for college educated personnel, enter the market and expand their operations. In addition, our ability to maintain and renew existing engagements and obtain new business will depend, in large part, on our ability to attract, train and retain personnel with skills that keep pace with the demand for outsourcing, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. A lack of sufficiently qualified personnel could also inhibit our ability to establish operations in new markets and our efforts to expand geographically. Our failure to attract, train and retain personnel with the qualifications necessary to fulfill the needs of our existing and future clients or to assimilate new employees successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have a long selling cycle for our BPO services that requires significant funds and management resources and a long implementation cycle that requires significant resource commitments. We have a long selling cycle for our BPO services, which requires significant investment of capital, resources and time by both our clients and us. Before committing to use our services, potential clients require us to expend substantial time and resources educating them as to the value of our services and assessing the feasibility of integrating our systems and processes with theirs. Our clients then evaluate our services before deciding whether to use them. Therefore, our selling cycle, which generally ranges from six to 12 months, is subject to many risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including our clients’ decision to choose alternatives to our services (such as other providers or in-house offshore resources) and the timing of our clients’ budget cycles and approval processes. In addition, we may not be able to successfully conclude a contract after the selling cycle is complete. Implementing our services involves a significant commitment of resources over an extended period of time from both our clients and us. Our clients may also experience delays in obtaining internal approvals or delays associated with technology or system implementations, thereby delaying further the implementation process. Our clients and future clients may not be willing or able to invest the time and resources necessary to implement our services, and we may fail to close sales with potential clients to which we have devoted significant time and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 17 Table of Contents Once we are engaged by a client, it may take us several months before we start to recognize significant revenues. When we are engaged by a client after the selling process, it takes from four to six weeks to integrate the client’s systems with ours, and up to three months thereafter to build up our services to the client’s requirements. Depending on the complexity of the processes being implemented, these time periods may be significantly longer. Implementing processes can be subject to potential delays similar to certain of those affecting the selling cycle. Therefore, we do not recognize significant revenues until after we have completed the implementation phase. We enter into long-term contracts with our BPO clients, and our failure to estimate the resources and time required for our contracts may negatively affect our profitability. The initial terms of our BPO client contracts typically range from three to seven years. In many of our BPO contracts we commit to long-term pricing with our clients and therefore bear the risk of cost overruns, completion delays, wage inflation and adverse movements in exchange rates in connection with these contracts. If we fail to estimate accurately the resources and time required for a contract, future wage inflation rates or currency exchange rates or if we fail to complete our contractual obligations within the contracted timeframe, our revenues and profitability may be negatively affected. Consistency in our revenues from period to period depends in part on our ability to reflect the changing demands and needs of our existing and potential BPO clients. If we are unable to adjust our pricing terms or the mix of products and services we provide to meet the changing demands of our BPO clients and potential BPO clients, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Most of our BPO contracts use a pricing model that provides for hourly or annual billing rates. Industry pricing models are evolving, however, and we anticipate that clients may increasingly request transaction-based pricing. This pricing model will place additional pressure on the efficiency of our service delivery so that we can maintain reasonable operating margins. If we are unable to adapt our operations to evolving pricing protocols, our results of operations may be adversely affected or we may not be able to offer pricing that is attractive relative to our competitors. In addition, the BPO services we provide to our clients (particularly under our general framework agreements), and the revenues and income from those services, may decline or vary as the type and quantity of services we provide under those contracts changes over time, including as a result of a shift in the mix of products and services we provide. Furthermore, our clients, some of which have experienced rapid changes in their prospects, substantial price competition and pressures on their profitability, have in the past and may in the future demand price reductions, automate some or all of their processes or change their outsourcing strategy by moving more work in-house or to other providers, any of which could reduce our profitability. Any significant reduction in or the elimination of the use of the services we provide to any of our clients, or any requirement to lower our prices, would harm our business. Our transformation services are cyclical and based on specific projects involving short-term contracts. Our transformation services, such as our research and analytics services and our advisory services, are cyclical and can be significantly affected by variations in business cycles. Changes in the deadlines or the scope of work required for compliance with the requirements of legislation applicable to our clients, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, could have a significant impact on certain risk advisory service offerings of our advisory services business. In addition, our research and analytics services and our advisory services usually consist of specific projects with contract terms generally not exceeding one year and may not produce ongoing or recurring business for us 18 Table of Contents once the project is completed. These contracts also usually contain provisions permitting termination of the contract after a short notice period. The short-term nature and specificity of these projects could lead to material fluctuations and uncertainties in the revenues generated from these businesses. Our operating results may experience significant variability and as a result it may be difficult for us to make accurate financial forecasts. Our operating results may vary significantly from period to period. Although our existing agreements with original terms of three or more years provide us with a relatively predictable revenue base for a substantial portion of our business, the long selling cycle for our services and the budget and approval processes of prospective clients make it difficult to predict the timing of new client acquisitions. The timing of revenue recognition under new client agreements also varies depending on when we complete the implementation phase. The completion of implementation varies significantly based upon the complexity of the processes being implemented. Our period-to-period results have in the past and may also in the future fluctuate due to other factors, including client losses, delays or failure by our clients to provide anticipated business, variations in employee utilization rates resulting from changes in our clients’ operations, delays or difficulties in expanding our operational facilities and infrastructure (including hiring new employees or constructing new operations centers), changes to our pricing structure or that of our competitors, currency fluctuation, seasonal changes in the operations of our clients and other events identified in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our revenues are also affected by changes in pricing under our contracts at the time of renewal or by pricing under new contracts. For example, because the majority of our revenues are denominated in pounds sterling or U.S. dollars while most of our expenses are incurred and paid in Indian rupees, our revenues can decrease or increase significantly if the exchange rates among the Indian rupee, the pound sterling and the U.S. dollar fluctuate significantly. In addition, some of our contracts do not commit our clients to provide us with a specific volume of business. These factors may make it difficult to make accurate financial forecasts or replace anticipated revenues that we do not receive as a result of delays in implementing our services or client losses. If our actual results do not meet any estimated results that we announce, or if we under perform market expectations as a result of such factors, trading prices for our common stock could be adversely affected. Our senior management team is critical to our continued success and the loss of one or more members of our senior management team could harm our business. Our future success substantially depends on the continued services and performance of the members of our management team and other key employees possessing technical and business capabilities, including industry expertise, that are difficult to replace. Specifically, the loss of the services of our Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Vikram Talwar, or of our President and Chief Operating Officer, Rohit Kapoor, could seriously impair our ability to continue to manage and expand our business. There is intense competition for experienced senior management and personnel with technical and industry expertise in the industry in which we operate, and we may not be able to retain these officers or key employees. Although we have entered into employment and non-competition agreements with all of our executive officers, certain terms of those agreements may not be enforceable and in any event these agreements do not ensure the continued service of these executive officers. Messrs. Talwar and Kapoor and certain of their affiliates have certain registration rights with respect to their shares of common stock. In addition, we currently do not maintain “key person” insurance covering any member of our management team. The loss of any of our key employees, particularly to competitors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents Our inability to effectively manage our rapid infrastructure and personnel growth could have a material adverse effect on our operations, results of operations and financial condition. Since we were founded in April 1999, we have experienced rapid growth and significantly expanded our operations. We have ten operations facilities in India and U.S., including a 1,200-workstation facility in Noida, India, that became operational in July 2007. Our employees have increased from approximately 1,800 on December 31, 2002 to approximately 10,000 on December 31, 2007. We expect to develop and improve our internal systems in the locations where we operate in order to address the anticipated growth of our business. In addition, we are presently in the process of establishing a new operations facility in the Philippines that we expect to become operational during the second quarter of 2008. We are also looking at additional locations other than India and the Philippines to invest in an operations facility. We believe expanding our geographic base of operations will provide higher value to our clients by decreasing the risks of operating from a single country (including potential shortages of skilled employees, increases in wage costs during strong economic times and currency fluctuations), while also giving our clients access to a wider talent pool and establishing a base in countries that may be competitive in the future. However, we may not be able to effectively manage our infrastructure and employee expansion, open additional operations facilities or hire additional skilled employees as and when they are required to meet the ongoing needs of our clients, and we may not be able to develop and improve our internal systems. Our inability to execute our growth strategy, to ensure the continued adequacy of our current systems or to manage our expansion effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Employee wage increases may prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margin. Our most significant costs are the salaries and related benefits of our operations staff and other employees. For example, wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, which has been one of our competitive advantages. However, because of rapid economic growth in India, increased demand for BPO services from India and increased competition for skilled employees in India, wages for comparably skilled employees in India are increasing at a faster rate than in the United States and Europe, which may reduce this competitive advantage. In addition, as the U.S. dollar declines in value against the Indian rupee, wages in the United States will decrease relative to wages in India, which may further reduce our competitive advantage. We may need to increase the levels of employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to remain competitive in attracting and retaining the quality and number of employees that our business requires. Wages are generally higher for employees performing research and analytics services and advisory services than for employees performing other BPO services. As the scale of our research and analytics services and our advisory services increases, wages as a percentage of revenues will likely increase. Wage increases in the long term may reduce our profit margins. Additionally, because substantially all of our employees are based in India and paid in Indian rupees, while our revenues are primarily in U.S. dollars and pounds sterling, our employee costs as a percentage of revenues may increase or decrease significantly if the exchange rates among the Indian rupee, the pound sterling and the U.S. dollar fluctuate significantly. We face significant competition from U.S.-based and non-U.S.-based outsourcing and information technology companies and from our clients, who may perform outsourcing services themselves, either in-house, in the United States or through offshore groups or other arrangements. The market for outsourcing services is highly competitive, and we expect competition to intensify and increase from a number of sources. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets are price, service quality, sales and marketing skills, the ability to develop customized services and technological and industry expertise. We face significant competition for our services from our clients’ own in-house groups, including, in some cases, in-house groups operating offshore. For example, Norwich Union, our largest client, has the option under one of our contracts to purchase the shares of our subsidiary that operates one of our 20 Table of Contents facilities in Pune, India. Norwich Union has recently exercised its option to assume the operations of the facilities of two of its third party vendor-contractors and has publicly announced its intention to undertake a strategic review of its Indian operations, which could result in Norwich Union electing to modify or terminate its relationship with us. In addition, our total revenues in 2008 could be affected by the decision of a limited number of our other clients to move work from third-party contractors to in-house groups operating offshore or to decrease work from third-party contractors as a result of internal strategic restructurings. We also face competition from non-U.S.-based outsourcing and IT companies (including those in the United Kingdom and India) and U.S.-based outsourcing and IT companies. In addition, the trend toward offshore outsourcing, international expansion by foreign and domestic competitors and continuing technological changes will result in new and different competitors entering our markets. These competitors may include entrants from the communications, software and data networking industries or entrants in geographic locations with lower costs than those in which we operate. Some of these existing and future competitors have greater financial, personnel and other resources, longer operating histories, a broader range of service offerings, greater technological expertise, more recognizable brand names and more established relationships in industries that we currently serve or may serve in the future. In addition, some of our competitors may enter into strategic or commercial relationships among themselves or with larger, more established companies in order to increase their ability to address client needs, or enter into similar arrangements with potential clients. The trend in multi-vendor relationships has been growing, which could reduce our revenues to the extent that clients obtain services from other vendors. Increased competition, our inability to compete successfully against competitors, pricing pressures or loss of market share could result in reduced operating margins, which could harm our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We may disrupt our clients’ operations as a result of inadequate service or other factors, including telecommunications or technology downtime or interruptions. The services we provide are often critical to our clients’ businesses, and any failure to provide those services could result in a reduction in revenues or a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of whether we are responsible for that failure. In particular, our dependence on our offshore operations centers requires us to maintain active voice and data communications among our operations centers in India and the Philippines, our international technology hubs in the United States and our clients’ offices. Although we maintain redundant facilities and communications links, disruptions could result from, among other things, technical breakdowns, computer glitches and viruses and weather conditions. We also depend on certain significant vendors for facility storage and related maintenance of our main technology equipment and data at those technology hubs. Any failure by these vendors to perform those services, any temporary or permanent loss of our equipment or systems, or any disruptions to basic infrastructure like power and telecommunications could impede our ability to provide services to our clients, have a negative impact on our reputation, cause us to lose clients, reduce our revenues and harm our business. We may not be fully insured for all losses we may incur. Although we attempt to limit and mitigate our liability for damages arising from negligent acts, errors or omissions through contractual provisions, limitations of liability set forth in our contracts may not be enforceable in all instances or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients, are generally not limited under those agreements. Although we have general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions and breaches of privacy and network security, that coverage may not continue to be available on reasonable terms or to be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, and our insurers may disclaim coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies (including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements), could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data, whether through breach of our computer systems or otherwise, could expose us to protracted and costly litigation and cause us to lose clients. We are typically required to collect and store sensitive data in connection with our services, including names, addresses, social security numbers, credit card account numbers, checking and savings account numbers and payment history records, such as account closures and returned checks. In addition, many of our agreements with our clients do not include any limitation on our liability to them with respect to breaches of our obligation to keep the information we receive from them confidential. We take precautions to protect confidential client and customer data. However, if any person, including any of our employees, penetrates our network security or otherwise mismanages or misappropriates sensitive data, we could be subject to significant liability and lawsuits from our clients or their own customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Penetration of the network security of our data centers could have a negative impact on our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our industry may not develop in ways that we currently anticipate due to negative public reaction in the United States and elsewhere to offshore outsourcing, recently proposed legislation or otherwise. We have based our strategy of future growth on certain assumptions regarding our industry and future developments in the market for outsourcing services. For example, we believe that there will continue to be changes in product and service requirements, and investments in the products offered by our clients will continue to increase. However, the trend to outsource business processes may not continue and could reverse. Offshore outsourcing is a politically sensitive topic in the United States and elsewhere, and many organizations and public figures have publicly expressed concern about a perceived association between offshore outsourcing providers and the loss of jobs in the United States and elsewhere. In addition, there has been recent publicity about the negative experience of certain companies that use offshore outsourcing, particularly in India. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform such services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring these services to offshore providers to avoid any negative perception that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends would harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that operate out of facilities located in the United States and elsewhere. A variety of U.S. federal and state legislation has been proposed that, if enacted, could restrict or discourage U.S. companies from outsourcing their services to companies outside the United States. For example, legislation has been proposed that would require offshore providers to identify where they are located. Because most of our clients are located in the United States, any expansion of existing laws or the enactment of new legislation restricting offshore outsourcing could adversely impact our ability to do business with U.S. clients and have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, it is possible that legislation could be adopted that would restrict U.S. private sector companies that have federal or state government contracts from outsourcing their services to offshore service providers. Such restrictions could affect our ability to attract or retain clients that have such contracts in the future. In other countries, such as the United Kingdom which comprised 54.1% of our total revenues in 2007, there has also been some negative publicity and concern expressed regarding the possible effect of job losses caused by outsourcing. Legislation introduced in the United Kingdom (consolidating past case law) in 2006 provides that if a company transfers or outsources its business or a part of its business to a transferee or a service provider, the employees who were employed in such business are entitled to become employed by the transferee or service provider on the same terms and conditions as they had been employed before the transfer. The dismissal of such employees as a result of such transfer of business is deemed unfair dismissal and entitles the employees to compensation. As a result, we may become liable for redundancy payments to the employees of our clients in the United Kingdom who outsource business to us. We are generally indemnified in our existing contracts with clients in the United Kingdom to the extent we incur losses or additional costs due to the application of this legislation to us, and we intend to obtain indemnification in future contracts with clients. However, if we are unable to obtain indemnification in future contracts with clients, we may be liable under any service level agreements we enter into in the future with United Kingdom clients. 22 Table of Contents Our client contracts contain certain termination provisions that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We provide services to Norwich Union under two framework agreements and work orders generated by these agreements. We generated 27.0% of our total revenues in 2007 from Norwich Union. The first framework agreement and all work orders under that agreement cannot be terminated by our client without cause prior to May 2008. The second framework agreement expires in July 2009 and can be terminated by our client without cause upon six months prior notice and payment to us of a break-up fee during its initial term. After these initial terms, Norwich Union may terminate these agreements without cause or penalty with six months notice. “Cause” under the Norwich Union agreements includes our failure to perform services agreed upon in a specific work order adequately, disposal of our material assets, our filing for bankruptcy or a change of control where our new controlling party is a named competitor of Norwich Union. We generated 24.7% of our total revenues in 2007 from Centrica. We provide services to Centrica under an agreement that has an initial term that expires in January 2009 and that can be terminated by Centrica for cause only during its initial term. Contracts with other BPO clients representing approximately 30.7% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 will expire prior to December 31, 2008. The termination of a substantial percentage of these contracts with or without cause could have a material adverse impact on the predictability of our expected revenue stream. Many of our client contracts may be terminated by our clients without cause and do not commit our clients to provide us with a specific volume of business. Any failure to meet a client’s expectations could result in a cancellation or non-renewal of a contract or a decrease in business provided to us. We may not be able to replace any client that elects to terminate or not renew its contract with us, which would reduce our revenues. Oak Hill Capital Partners and its affiliates, Vikram Talwar, Rohit Kapoor and certain other members of management exercise significant influence over us, and their interests in our business may be different than yours. A majority of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock are currently beneficially owned by Oak Hill Capital Partners L.P. and certain of its affiliates, our Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Vikram Talwar, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Rohit Kapoor, and certain other members of management. As of December 31, 2007, Oak Hill Capital Partners L.P. and certain of its affiliates beneficially owned 10,542,504 shares (or 36.7%) of our outstanding common stock; Mr. Talwar and certain trusts for his benefit and that of his family collectively beneficially owned 1,777,072 shares (or 6.2%) of our outstanding common stock; Mr. Kapoor and certain trusts for his benefit and that of his family collectively beneficially owned 2,055,822 shares (or 7.2%) of our outstanding common stock; and certain other members of our management beneficially owned 1,089,935 shares (or 3.8%) of our outstanding common stock. Accordingly, each of these parties can exercise significant influence over our business policies and affairs and all matters requiring a stockholders’ vote, including the composition of our board of directors, the adoption of amendments to our certificate of incorporation and the approval of mergers or sales of substantially all of our assets. This concentration of ownership also may delay, defer or even prevent a change in control of our company and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. The interests of these stockholders may conflict with your interests. We may not succeed in identifying suitable acquisition candidates or integrating an acquired business into our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. One of our strategies is to broaden our geographic presence, gain new clients, enter new streams of services and expand capacity both organically and through strategic acquisitions. We may not, however, succeed in identifying suitable acquisition candidates available for sale at reasonable prices, have access to the capital required to finance potential acquisitions or be able to consummate any acquisition. Our management may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired business into our operations or maintain our standards, controls and policies, and any acquisition we do complete may not result in long-term benefits to us. Acquisitions involve a 23 Table of Contents number of risks, including diversion of management’s attention, ability to finance the acquisition on attractive terms, failure to retain key personnel, legal liabilities and the need to amortize acquired intangible assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Future acquisitions may also result in the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance of additional equity securities. We may choose to expand operations to additional countries and may not be successful in maintaining our current profit margins in our new locations due to factors beyond our control. We expect our new operations facility in the Philippines to become operational in April 2008. In addition, we are also looking at additional locations other than India and the Philippines to invest in an operations facility. We cannot predict the extent of government support, availability of qualified workers, or monetary and economic conditions in other countries. Although some of these factors will influence our decision to establish operations in another country, there are inherent risks beyond our control, including exposure to currency fluctuations, political uncertainties, foreign exchange restrictions and foreign regulatory restrictions. One or more of these factors or other factors relating to expanded international operations could result in increased operating expenses and make it more difficult for us to manage our costs and operations, which could harm our business and negatively impact our operating results. We may increase the range of services that we provide to our clients and our business and future prospects are difficult to evaluate. We are exploring opportunities to provide outsourced services that we have not provided to date. Should we decide to expand our service offerings, our results of operations may be negatively affected during any transition or growth period before such offerings achieve profitability. For example, we may need to expand our training of our existing employees or recruit new, specially-trained employees to provide these services, which could increase our costs of revenues disproportionately to the revenues generated by such services. Other challenges we may face include attracting and retaining clients for such services, integrating any new services into our current suite of services and managing any resulting growth in our operations. Failure to adhere to the regulations that govern our business could have an adverse impact on our operations. Our clients are often subject to regulations that may require that we comply with certain rules and regulations in performing services for them that would not otherwise apply to us. Debt collection services, for example, may be subject to the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, which regulates debt collection practices. In addition, many U.S. states require a debt collector to apply for, be granted and maintain a license to engage in debt collection activities in a state. We are currently licensed (or exempt from licensing requirements) to provide debt collection services in all but two U.S. states that have non-exempt requirements and have separate “per-customer” exemptions with respect to our ongoing collection obligations. Other federal laws and regulations that apply to certain portions of our business include the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, the Truth in Lending Act, the Fair Credit Billing Act and the FDIC rules and regulations. If we do not maintain our licenses or other qualifications to provide our services, we may not be able to provide services to existing customers or be able to attract new clients and could lose revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our failure to comply with any applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil fines and criminal penalties. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and may be unable to maintain effective controls in light of our rapid growth, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a public company, we incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, 24 Table of Contents or the SEC, and the Nasdaq Stock Market, have required more regulation and more corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect that our legal and financial compliance costs will continue to increase and that a significant portion of management’s time will be diverted to comply with these rules. We also expect that the need to comply with these rules and regulations will make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified candidates to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Our rapid growth places significant demands on our management and operational resources. In order to manage our growth effectively, we must implement and improve operational systems, procedures and internal controls on a timely basis. For example, we are continuously reviewing and developing new policies regarding internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. During 2007, we evaluated and tested our internal controls systems in connection with compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We observed specific instances in the first three quarters of 2007, some of which were one-time events, where our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. If we do not manage to continually maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures or do not implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results in a timely manner or prevent fraud and might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC. Any such action could harm our business or investors’ confidence in us, and could cause our stock price to fall. In addition, if we fail to implement these systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis, we may not be able to service our client’ needs, hire and retain new employees, pursue new business, complete future acquisitions or operate our business effectively. Risks Related to the International Nature of our Business Our financial condition could be negatively affected if foreign governments reduce or withdraw tax benefits and other incentives currently provided to companies within our industry, or if the same are not available for other reasons. Under the Indian Finance Act, 2000, we currently benefit from a holiday from Indian corporate income taxes. As a result, our service operations have been subject to relatively lower tax liabilities. We incurred minimal income tax expense in 2007 as a result of the tax holiday, compared to approximately $6.0 million that we would have incurred if the tax holiday had not been available for that period (without accounting for double taxation treaty set-offs). The Indian Finance Act, 2000 phases out the tax holiday over a ten-year period from fiscal 2000 through fiscal 2009. Our current tax holidays expire in 2009. When our tax holiday expires or terminates, our tax expense will materially increase. In May 2007, the Government of India adopted the Indian Finance Act, 2007, that imposed a minimum alternative tax, or MAT, on Indian companies that benefit from a tax holiday with effect from April 1, 2007. Any MAT paid by us can be used as a credit against corporate income taxes payable by us after expiry of the tax holiday for up to seven years, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. In addition, in May 2007, the Government of India implemented a fringe benefit tax on the exercise or vesting of equity instruments on or after April 1, 2007. The fringe benefit tax is payable by the employer on the exercise of options at the rate of 33.99% on the difference between the fair market value and the exercise price of such options on the date of vesting of such options. The fringe benefit tax is also payable on the vesting of full value awards such as restricted stock at the rate of 33.99% on the fair market value of such awards. The legislation permits the employer to recover the fringe benefit tax from the employees and we seek to recover the fringe benefit tax from those of our employees on whose behalf such tax is payable by us. If we are unsuccessful in recovering the fringe benefit tax from our employees, we may experience a material adverse effect on our cash flows. 25 Table of Contents We currently benefit from a four-year income tax holiday in the Philippines that is extendable for an additional two years. Our current income tax holidays are expected to expire in the middle of 2012, unless extended. While we fully intend to apply for extensions of these holidays, it is possible that such extensions could be denied, or that due to changes in the government of the Philippines that these holidays could be removed entirely. Should either of these events occur, our Philippine tax liability could increase. We may be required to pay additional taxes in connection with audits by the Indian taxing authorities. Indian transfer pricing regulations require that any international transaction involving related corporations be at an arms’ length price. Transactions among our subsidiaries and us may be considered such transactions. The Indian tax authorities have issued assessment orders against our subsidiaries ExlService.com, Inc., which we refer to as EXL Inc., and EXL India. Two assessments issued with respect to EXL Inc. and EXL India allege that transfer pricing applied to transactions between such entities was not appropriate and demand the payment of additional taxes based on the disallowance of certain tax deductions taken by EXL India. Three assessments issued with respect to EXL Inc. allege that it has a permanent establishment in India and demands the payment of certain additional taxes based on such allegation. The details of the assessment orders are as below: Entity Tax Year Issue Amountdemanded Amountdeposited Exl India 2003-04 The assessment order alleges that the transfer price we applied to transactions between EXL India and EXL Inc in the 2003-04 tax year was not appropriate and disallows certain expenses claimed as tax deductible by EXL India. $2.5 million $0.8 million Exl India 2004-05 The assessment order alleges that the transfer price we applied to transactions between EXL India and EXL Inc. for the 2004-05 tax year was not appropriate and disallows certain expenses claimed as tax deductible by EXL India. $4.2 million $1.7 million Exl Inc. 2003-04 The assessment order alleges that EXL Inc. has a permanent establishment in India. $3.7 million $1.8 million Exl Inc. 2004-05 The assessment order alleges that EXL Inc. has a permanent establishment in India. $0.1 million — Exl Inc. 2005-06 The assessment order alleges that EXL Inc. has a permanent establishment in India. $0.9 million — We are contesting all of these assessments and have filed appeals with the appropriate Indian tax authorities. Based on advice from our Indian tax advisors, the facts underlying our position and our experience with these types of assessments, we believe that the probability of loss is remote and have not accrued any amount with respect to these matters in our consolidated financial statements. Any amount paid by us as deposits will be refunded to us with interest if we succeed in our appeals. We cannot assure you that our appeals will be successful or that these appeals will be finally resolved in the near future. There is a likelihood that we may be required to deposit additional amounts with respect to the assessment orders received by us and that we might receive similar orders for subsequent years until these disputes are resolved. Future claims may be based on the transfer pricing or permanent establishment claims alleged by the Indian tax authorities, or may be based on alternative arguments. Any failure of our appeals or further assessments would reduce our profitability and cash flows. A substantial portion of our assets and operations are located in India, and we are subject to regulatory, economic and political uncertainties in India. Our principal operating subsidiaries are incorporated in India, and virtually all of our assets and our professionals are located in India. We intend to continue to develop and expand our offshore facilities in India. In the early 1990s, India experienced significant inflation, low growth in gross domestic product and shortages of 26 Table of Contents foreign currency reserves. The Indian government, however, has exercised and continues to exercise significant influence over many aspects of the Indian economy. India’s government has provided significant tax incentives and relaxed certain regulatory restrictions in order to encourage foreign investment in specified sectors of the economy, including the BPO industry. Certain of those programs, which have benefited us, include tax holidays, liberalized import and export duties and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation. We cannot assure you that liberalization policies will continue. In addition, the Government of India is considering introducing a reservation policy to the private sector in India, pursuant to which all private sector companies operating in India, including our subsidiaries, would be required to reserve a certain percentage of jobs for the economically underprivileged population in the states where such companies are incorporated. If this policy is adopted, our ability to hire employees of our choice may be affected due to restrictions on our pool of potential employees and competition for these professionals. Furthermore, the rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting technology companies, foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters affecting investment in our securities could also change. Since 1996, the Government of India has changed six times. The current Indian government is a coalition of many parties, some of which are communist and other far left parties in India, some of which do not want to continue India’s current economic policies. Various factors, including a collapse of the present coalition government due to the withdrawal of support of coalition members, could trigger significant changes in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies, disrupt business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. Our financial performance and the trading price of our shares may be adversely affected by changes in inflation, exchange rates and controls, interest rates, Government of India policies (including taxation policies), social stability or other political, economic or diplomatic developments affecting India in the future. The Philippines periodically experiences political or economic instability, which could disrupt our operations, increase our costs and harm our business. The Philippines continues to experience low growth in its gross domestic product, significant inflation and shortages of foreign exchange. We are exposed to the risk of rental and other cost increases due to inflation in the Philippines, which has historically been at a much higher rate than in the United States. These conditions could create political or economic instability that could harm businesses operating in the Philippines. In addition, the Philippines has and may continue to experience political instability, including strikes, demonstrations, protests, marches, coups d’état, guerilla activity or other types of civil disorder. These instabilities and any adverse changes in the political environment in the Philippines could increase our operational costs, increase our exposure to legal and business risks and make it more difficult for us to operate our business in the Philippines. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence involving India, the Philippines, the United States or other countries could adversely affect the financial markets, result in a loss of client confidence and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, including those involving India, the Philippines, the United States or other countries, may adversely affect worldwide financial markets and could potentially lead to economic recession, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. South Asia has, from time to time, experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including India, Pakistan and China. In recent years there have been several instances of military confrontations along the Indo-Pakistan border. There continues to be potential for hostilities between India and Pakistan due to recent terrorist activities and the geopolitical climate along the border. Although this has not been the case to date, such political tensions could create a perception that there is a risk of disruption of services provided by India-based companies, which could have a material adverse effect on the market for our services. Furthermore, if India were to become engaged in armed hostilities, particularly hostilities that were protracted or involved the threat or use of nuclear weapons, we might not be able to continue to operate. 27 Table of Contents An outbreak of an infectious disease or any other serious public health concerns in Asia or elsewhere could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The outbreak of an infectious disease in Asia or elsewhere or any other serious public health concerns could have a negative impact on the economies, financial markets and business activities in the countries in which our end markets are located, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The outbreak in 2003 of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome in Asia and the outbreak of avian influenza, or bird flu, across Asia and Europe, including recent outbreaks in parts of India, have adversely affected a number of countries and companies. Although we have not been adversely impacted by these recent outbreaks, we can give no assurance that a future outbreak of an infectious disease among humans or animals or any other serious public health concerns will not have a material adverse effect on our business. We are vulnerable to natural disasters that could severely disrupt the normal operation of our business and adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. India is susceptible to natural disasters, including typhoons, tsunamis, floods and earthquakes. The Philippines is additionally susceptible to volcanic eruptions. Substantially all of our facilities and employees are located in India. If our facilities are damaged by a typhoon, tsunami, flood, earthquake, volcanic eruption or other natural disaster, our operations and our ability to provide services to our clients could be interrupted or delayed significantly. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses. In addition, although all of our operations centers have access to other power sources, disaster management facilities in India may not be adequate to protect against potential losses. In addition, clients may terminate their contracts with us if we cannot resume providing services quickly enough. As a result, a natural disaster in India or the Philippines could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Restrictions on entry visas may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the United States, which could have a material adverse effect on future revenues. The vast majority of our employees are Indian nationals. The ability of some of our executives and employees to work with and meet our U.S. and European clients and our clients from other countries depends on their ability to obtain the necessary visas and entry permits. In response to terrorist attacks and global unrest, U.S. and European immigration authorities have increased the level of scrutiny in granting visas. Immigration laws in those countries may also require us to meet certain levels of compensation and comply with other legal requirements as a condition to obtaining or maintaining entry visas. These restrictions have significantly lengthened the time requirements to obtain visas for our personnel, which has in the past resulted, and may continue to result, in delays in the ability of our personnel to meet with our clients. In addition, immigration laws are subject to legislative change and varying standards of application and enforcement due to political forces, economic conditions or other events, including terrorist attacks. We cannot predict the political or economic events that could affect immigration laws or any restrictive impact those events could have on obtaining or monitoring entry visas for our professionals. If we are unable to obtain the necessary visas for personnel who need to get to our clients’ sites, or if such visas are delayed, we may not be able to provide services to our clients or to continue to provide these services on a timely basis, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Currency fluctuations among the Indian rupee, the U.K. pound sterling, Philippine Peso and the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Although substantially all of our revenues are denominated in U.K. pounds sterling (54.1% in 2007) or U.S. dollars (45.6% in 2007), most of our expenses (67.2% in 2007) are incurred and paid in Indian rupees. We report our financial results in U.S. dollars. The exchange rates among the Indian rupee, the U.K. pound sterling, the Philippine Peso and the U.S. dollar have changed substantially in recent years and may fluctuate substantially in the future. The average Indian rupee/U.S. dollar exchange rate in 2007 was approximately 41.18 (based on the 28 Table of Contents noon buying rate in the City of New York for cable transfers as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York), representing appreciation of 8.9% compared to the average exchange rate in 2006. The average Indian rupee/U.K. pound sterling exchange rate in 2007 was approximately 83.58 (based on the Bloomberg Composite Rate), representing depreciation of 0.1% compared to the average exchange rate in 2006. The average U.S. dollar/U.K. pound sterling exchange rate in 2007 was approximately 2.00 (based on the noon buying rate in the City of New York for cable transfers as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York) representing depreciation of 8.7% compared to the average exchange rate in 2006. Although we take steps to hedge a substantial portion of our Indian rupee/U.S. dollar foreign currency exposures, our results of operations may be adversely affected if the Indian rupee fluctuates significantly against the U.K. pound sterling or the U.S. dollar, the U.K. pound sterling depreciates against the U.S. dollar or our hedging strategy is unsuccessful. If more stringent labor laws or other industry standards in India become applicable to us, our profitability may be adversely affected. India has stringent labor legislation that protects the interests of workers, including legislation that sets forth detailed procedures for dispute resolution and employee removal and legislation that imposes financial obligations on employers upon retrenchment. In addition, we are subject to certain industry standards regarding our employees, particularly with regard to overtime and transportation of employees. Our employees may also in the future form unions. If these labor laws or industry standards become more stringent or are more strictly enforced, or if our employees unionize, it may become difficult for us to maintain flexible human resource policies, discharge employees or downsize, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Investors may have difficulty effecting service of process or enforcing judgments obtained in the United States against our subsidiaries in India or our executive officers. Our primary operating subsidiaries are organized in India and a number of our executive officers reside outside of the United States. Most of our assets are located in India. As a result, you may be unable to effect service of process upon our affiliates who reside in India outside their jurisdiction of residence. In addition, you may be unable to enforce against these persons outside the jurisdiction of their residence judgments obtained in courts of the United States, including judgments predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. Section 44A and Section 13 of the Indian Civil Procedure Code, 1908, or the Civil Code, govern recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments. Section 44A of the Civil Code provides for recognition and enforcement of a foreign judgment without having to file an original suit in India, provided such judgments have been rendered by courts in a country or territory outside India which the Government of India has declared to be a reciprocating territory. We have been advised by our Indian counsel that the United States and India do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than certain arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States based on civil liability, whether or not it is predicated upon the federal securities laws of the United States, would not be enforceable in India as such. However, if the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered brings a new suit in a competent court in India based on a final judgment that has been obtained in the United States, Section 13 of the Civil Code provides that the foreign judgment will be conclusive as to certain matters. The suit must be brought in India within three years of the date of the foreign judgment. It is unlikely, however, that a court in India would award damages on the same basis as a court in the United States if an action is brought in India. It is also unlikely that an Indian court would enforce judgments obtained in the United States if it viewed the amount of damages awarded as excessive or inconsistent with Indian practice. 29 Table of Contents In addition, the party seeking to enforce in India a judgment obtained in the United States would also be required to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 to execute such a judgment or to repatriate any money recovered in an Indian court. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 