Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Coal Industry Because the demand and pricing for coal is greatly influenced by consumption patterns of the domestic electricity generation industry, a reduction in the demand for coal by this industry would likely cause our revenues and profitability to decline significantly. We derived 88% of our total revenues (contract and spot) in 2010 and 92% of our total revenues in 2009, from our electric utility customers. Fuel cost is a significant component of the cost associated with coal-fired power generation, with respect to not only the price of the coal, but also the costs associated with emissions control and credits (i.e., sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, etc.), combustion by-product disposal (i.e., ash) and equipment operations and maintenance (i.e., materials handling facilities). All of these costs must be considered when choosing between coal generation and alternative methods, including natural gas, nuclear, hydroelectric and others. 16 Weather patterns also can greatly affect electricity generation. Extreme temperatures, both hot and cold, cause increased power usage and, therefore, increased generating requirements from all sources. Mild temperatures, on the other hand, result in lower electrical demand, which allows generators to choose the lowest-cost sources of power generation when deciding which generation sources to dispatch. Accordingly, significant changes in weather patterns could reduce the demand for our coal. Overall economic activity and the associated demands for power by industrial users can have significant effects on overall electricity demand. Downward economic pressures can cause decreased demands for power, by both residential and industrial customers. Any downward pressure on coal prices, whether due to increased use of alternative energy sources, changes in weather patterns, decreases in overall demand or otherwise, would likely cause our profitability to decline. Electric utility deregulation is expected to provide incentives to generators of electricity to minimize their fuel costs and is believed to have caused electric generators to be more aggressive in negotiating prices with coal suppliers. To the extent utility deregulation causes our customers to be more cost-sensitive, deregulation may have a negative effect on our profitability. Changes in the export and import markets for coal products could affect the demand for our coal, our pricing and our profitability. We compete in a worldwide market. The pricing and demand for our products is affected by a number of factors beyond our control. These factors include: • currency exchange rates; • growth of economic development; • price of alternative sources of electricity; • world wide demand; and • ocean freight rates Any decrease in the amount of coal exported from the United States, or any increase in the amount of coal imported into the United States, could have a material adverse impact on the demand for our coal, our pricing and our profitability. Increased consolidation and competition in the U.S. coal industry may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. During the last several years, the U.S. coal industry has experienced increased consolidation, which has contributed to the industry becoming more competitive. Consequently, many of our competitors in the domestic coal industry are major coal producers who have significantly greater financial resources than us. The intense competition among coal producers may impact our ability to retain or attract customers and may therefore adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability and dependability of transportation could affect the demand for our coal and our ability to deliver coal to our customers. Increases in transportation costs could have an adverse effect on demand for our coal. Customers choose coal supplies based, primarily, on the total delivered cost of coal. Any increase in transportation costs would cause an increase in the total delivered cost of coal. That could cause some of our customers to seek less expensive sources of coal or alternative fuels to satisfy their energy needs. In addition, significant decreases in transportation costs from other coal-producing regions, both domestic and international, could result in increased competition from coal producers in those regions. For instance, coal mines in the western United States could become more attractive as a source of coal to consumers in the eastern United States, if the costs of tr ansporting coal from the West were significantly reduced. 17 Our Central Appalachia mines generally ship coal via rail systems. During 2010, we shipped in excess of 90% of our coal from our Central Appalachia mines via CSX. In the Midwest, we shipped in excess of 65% of our produced coal by truck and the remainder via the rail system or by barge. We believe that our 2011 transportation modes will continue to be comparable to those used in 2010. Our dependence upon railroads and third party trucking companies impacts our ability to deliver coal to our customers. Disruption of service due to weather-related problems, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks and other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, resulting in decreased shipments. Decreased performance levels over longer pe riods of time could cause our customers to look elsewhere for their fuel needs, negatively affecting our revenues and profitability. In past years, the major eastern railroads (CSX and Norfolk Southern) have experienced periods of increased overall rail traffic due to an expanding economy and shortages of both equipment and personnel. This increase in traffic could impact our ability to obtain the necessary rail cars to deliver coal to our customers and have an adverse impact on our financial results. Shortages or increased costs of skilled labor in the coal regions that we operate may hamper our ability to achieve high labor productivity and competitive costs. Coal mining continues to be a labor-intensive industry. In times of increased demand, many producers attempt to increase coal production, which historically has resulted in a competitive market for the limited supply of trained coal miners. In some cases, this market situation has caused compensation levels to increase, particularly for “skilled” positions such as electricians and mine foremen. To maintain current production levels, we may be forced to respond to increases in wages and other forms of compensation, and related recruiting efforts by our competitors. Any future shortage of skilled miners, or increases in our labor costs, could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and on our ability to expand production. Government laws, regulations and other requirements relating to the protection of the environment, health and safety and other matters impose significant costs on us, and future requirements could limit our ability to produce coal. We are subject to extensive federal, state and local regulations with respect to matters such as: · employee health and safety; · permitting and licensing requirements; · air quality standards; · water quality standards; · plant, wildlife and wetland protection; · blasting operations; · the management and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous materials generated by mining operations; · the storage of petroleum products and other hazardous substances; · reclamation and restoration of properties after mining operations are completed; · discharge of materials into the environment, including air emissions and wastewater discharge; · surface subsidence from underground mining; and · the effects of mining operations on groundwater quality and availability. Complying with these requirements, including the terms of our permits, has had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on our costs of operations. We could incur substantial costs, including clean up costs, fines, civil or criminal sanctions and third party claims for personal injury or property damage as a result of violations of or liabilities under these laws and regulations. The coal industry is also affected by significant legislation mandating specified benefits for retired miners. In addition, the utility industry, which is the most significant end user of coal, is subject to extensive regulation regarding the environmental impact of its power generating activities. Coal contains impurities, including sulfur, mercury, chlorine and other elements or compounds, many of which are released into the air when coal is burned. Stricter environmental regulations of emissions from coal-fired electric generating plants could increase the costs of using coal, thereby reducing demand for coal as a fuel source or the volume and price of our coal sales, or making coal a less attractive fuel alternative in the planning and building of utility power plants in the future. 18 New legislation, regulations and orders adopted or implemented in the future (or changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations) may materially adversely affect our mining operations, our cost structure and our customers’ operations or ability to use coal. The majority of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow the purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser’s plant or results in too great an increase in the cost of coal. These factors and legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The passage of legislation responsive to the Framework Convention on Global Climate Change or similar governmental initiatives could result in restrictions on coal use. The United States and more than 160 other nations are signatories to the 1992 Framework Convention on Global Climate Change, commonly known as the Kyoto Protocol, which is intended to limit or capture emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide. In December 1997, the signatories to the convention established a potentially binding set of emissions targets for developed nations. Although the specific emissions targets vary from country to country, the United States would be required to reduce emissions to 93% of 1990 levels over a five-year budget period from 2008 through 2012. The U.S. Senate has not ratified the treaty commitments. The current administration could support the effort to ratify the treaty. With Russia’s ratification of the Kyot o Protocol in 2004, it became binding on all ratifying countries. The implementation of the Kyoto Protocol in the United States and other countries, and other emissions limits, such as those adopted by the European Union, could affect demand for coal inside and outside the United States. If the Kyoto Protocol or other comprehensive legislation or regulations focusing on greenhouse gas emissions is enacted by the United States, it could have the effect of restricting the use of coal. Other efforts to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and federal initiatives to encourage the use of natural gas also may affect the use of coal as an energy source. We are subject to the federal Clean Water Act and similar state laws which impose treatment, monitoring and reporting obligations. The federal Clean Water Act and corresponding state laws affect coal mining operations by imposing restrictions on discharges into regulated waters. Permits requiring regular monitoring and compliance with effluent limitations and reporting requirements govern the discharge of pollutants into regulated waters. New requirements under the Clean Water Act (such as the proposal discussed below in the risk factor “We must obtain governmental permits and approvals for mining operations, which can be a costly and time consuming process and result in restrictions on our operations”) and corresponding state laws could cause us to incur significant addi tional costs that adversely affect our operating results. Regulations have expanded the definition of black lung disease and generally made it easier for claimants to assert and prosecute claims, which could increase our exposure to black lung benefit liabilities. In January 2001, the United States Department of Labor amended the regulations implementing the federal black lung laws to give greater weight to the opinion of a claimant’s treating physician, expand the definition of black lung disease and limit the amount of medical evidence that can be submitted by claimants and respondents. The amendments also alter administrative procedures for the adjudication of claims, which, according to the Department of Labor, results in streamlined procedures that are less formal, less adversarial and easier for participants to understand. These and other changes to the federal black lung regulations could significantly increase our exposure to black lung benefits liabilities. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 (Act) was enacted into law on March 23, 2010 and included a black-lung provision that creates a rebuttable presumption that a miner with at least 15 years of service, with totally disabling pulmonary or respiratory lung impairment and negative radiographic chest x-ray evidence would be disabled due to pneumoconiosis and be eligible for black lung benefits. The new Act also makes it easier for widows of miners to become eligible for benefits. The enactment of this new legislation could significantly impact the Company’s future payments for black lung benefits. 19 In recent years, legislation on black lung reform has been introduced but not enacted in Congress and in the Kentucky legislature. It is possible that additional legislation will be reintroduced for consideration by Congress. If any of the proposals included in this or similar legislation is passed, the number of claimants who are awarded benefits could significantly increase. Any such changes in black lung legislation, if approved, may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Extensive environmental laws and regulations affect the end-users of coal and could reduce the demand for coal as a fuel source and cause the volume of our sales to decline. The Clean Air Act and similar state and local laws extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants, which are the largest end-users of our coal. Compliance with such laws and regulations, which can take a variety of forms, may reduce demand for coal as a fuel source because they can require significant emissions control expenditures for coal-fired power plants to attain applicable ambient air quality standards, which may lead these generators to switch to other fuels that generate less of these emissions and may also reduce future demand for the construction of coal-fired power plants. The EPA has adopted more stringent National Ambient Air Quality Standards for nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide, both of which are emitted from coal-fired combustion units. The EPA is considering whether to adopt a more stringent standard for ground-level ozone, to which emissions from coal combustion units can contribute. The demand for coal could be affected at electric generating facilities located in geographic areas that exceed the modified standards. The U.S. Department of Justice, on behalf of the EPA, has filed lawsuits against several investor-owned electric utilities and brought an administrative action against one government-owned utility for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act. We supply coal to some of the currently-affected utilities, and it is possible that other of our customers will be sued. These lawsuits could require the utilities to pay penalties, install pollution control equipment or undertake other emission reduction measures, any of which could adversely impact their demand for our coal. A regional haze program initiated by the EPA to protect and to improve visibility at and around national parks, national wilderness areas and international parks restricts the construction of new coal-fired power plants whose operation may impair visibility at and around federally protected areas and may require some existing coal-fired power plants to install additional control measures designed to limit haze-causing emissions. The Clean Air Act also imposes standards on sources of hazardous air pollutants. These standards and future standards could have the effect of decreasing demand for coal. So-called multi-pollutant bills, which could regulate additional air pollutants, have been proposed by various members of Congress. If such initiatives are enacted into law, power plant operators could choose other fuel sources to meet their requirements, reducing the demand for coal. As a result of the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision on April 2, 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA, 549 U.S. 497 (2007), finding that greenhouse gases fall within the Clean Air Act definition of “air pollutant,” the EPA was required to determine whether emissions of greenhouse gases “endanger” public health or welfare. In December 2009, the EPA published its finding that current and projected concentrations of carbon dioxide and five other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten the public’s health and welfare. This finding enables the EPA to proceed with a broad regulatory program for the control of greenhouse gas emissions, including carbon dioxide emissions. The EPA has recently completed several rulemaking actions i ndicating its intent to do so, including, among others, a final greenhouse gas reporting rule for certain major stationary source permitting programs, final regulations to control greenhouse gas emissions from light duty vehicles, and a final “tailoring” rule explaining how it would implement the Clean Air Act’s Title V and prevention of significant deterioration permitting programs with respect to greenhouse gas emissions from major stationary sources In recent legislative sessions, both houses of Congress have considered, but failed to enact, new legislation that could establish a national cap on, or other regulation of, carbon emissions and other greenhouse gases. Recent proposals include a cap and trade system that would require the purchase of emission permits, which could be traded on the open market. These and other proposals would make it more costly to operate coal-fired plants and could make coal a less attractive fuel for future power plants. ; Any new or proposed requirements adversely affecting the use of coal could adversely affect our operations and results. 20 In December 2009, approximately 190 countries participated in the United Nations Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen. The participants “took note” of a non-binding accord under which participating nations would report, by January 31, 2010, their commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Under this non-binding framework, the U.S. has committed to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 17% below 2005 levels by 2020, 42% below 2005 levels by 2030, and 83% below 2005 levels by 2050. The permitting of new coal-fired power plants has also recently been contested by state regulators and environmental organizations based on concerns relating to greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, in September 2009, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit issued its decision in Connecticut v. AEP allowing plaintiffs’ claims that public utilities’ greenhouse gas emissions created a “public nuisance” to go to trial over defendants’ objections based upon political question, preemption and lack of standing. In December 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court granted certiorari review of this decision by the Second Circuit. The plaintiffs in this case are seeking various remedies, including injunctive relief. These cases ex pose other significant contributors to greenhouse gas emissions to similar litigation risk. The effect of these recent cases may be mitigated in the event Congress adopts greenhouse gas legislation and because the EPA has finalized the adoption of greenhouse gas emission standards. Nevertheless, increased efforts to control greenhouse gas emissions by state, federal, judicial or international authorities could result in reduced demand for coal. The characteristics of coal may make it difficult for coal users to comply with various environmental standards related to coal combustion. As a result, they may switch to other fuels, which would affect the volume or price of our sales. Coal contains impurities, including sulfur, nitrogen oxide, mercury, chlorine and other elements or compounds, many of which are released into the air when coal is burned. Stricter environmental regulations of emissions from coal-fired electric generating plants could increase the costs of using coal thereby reducing demand for coal as a fuel source, and the volume and price of our coal sales. Stricter regulations could make coal a less attractive fuel alternative in the planning and building of utility power plants in the future. For example, in order to meet the federal Clean Air Act limits for sulfur dioxide emissions from electric power plants, coal users may need to install scrubbers, use sulfur dioxide emission allowances (some of which they may purchase), blend high sulfur coal with low sulfur coal or switch to other fuels. Each option has limitations. Lower sulfur coal may be more costly to purchase on an energy basis than higher sulfur coal depending on mining and transportation costs. The cost of installing scrubbers is significant and emission allowances may become more expensive as their availability declines. Switching to other fuels may require expensive modification of existing plants. In 2005, the EPA adopted federal rules intended to reduce the interstate transport of fine particulate matter and ozone through reductions in sulfur dioxides and nitrogen oxide emissions from certain sources throughout the eastern United States. The reductions were to be implemented in stages, some through a market-based cap-and-trade program. Such new regulations would likely require some power plants to install new equipment, at substantial cost, or discourage the use of certain coals containing higher levels of mercury. The particular rules introduced by the EPA in March 2005 were subsequently struck down by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit on July 11, 2008. On December 23, 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit remanded consolidated case s to the EPA without vacatur of the Clean Air Interstate Rule in order that the EPA could remedy flaws in the Rule. In July 2010, the EPA issued a proposed Clean Air Transport Rule in response to the Court’s prior remand of the 2005 rule. The recently proposed rule calls for reductions of sulfur dioxides and nitrogen oxides that drift across state lines in phases beginning in 2012. New and proposed reductions in emissions of sulfur dioxides, nitrogen oxides, particulate matter or greenhouse gases may require the installation of additional costly control technology or the implementation of other measures, including trading of emission allowances and switching to other fuels. These and other proposals would make it more costly to operate coal-fired plants and could make coal a less attractive fuel for future power plants. 21 We must obtain governmental permits and approvals for mining operations, which can be a costly and time consuming process and result in restrictions on our operations. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required for mining operations. Our operations are principally regulated under permits issued by state regulatory and enforcement agencies pursuant to the federal Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMCRA). Regulatory authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance. Requirements imposed by these authorities may be costly and time consuming and may result in delays in the commencement or continuation of exploration or production operations. In addition, we often are required to prepare and present to federal, state and local authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that proposed exploration for or production of coal might have on the environment. Further , the public may comment on and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Accordingly, the permits we need may not be issued, or, if issued, may not be issued in a timely fashion, or may involve requirements that restrict our ability to conduct our mining operations or to do so profitably. Prior to placing excess fill material in valleys in connection with surface mining operations, coal mining companies are required to obtain a permit from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) under Section 404 of the Clean Water Act (404 Permit). Previously, this permit could be either a simplified Nationwide Permit #21 (NWP 21) or a more complicated individual permit. Litigation respecting the validity of the NWP 21 permit program has been ongoing for several years. Recently, the Corps announced its decision to suspend the use of NWP 21 in a six state Appalachian region, including Kentucky, where we operate. Litigation respecting the issuance of certain Section 404 permits has also been ongoing for several years, focusing primarily on whether the Corps’ decis ion to issue such permits conformed to the requirements of the Clean Water Act and/or the National Environmental Policy Act. The matters at issue in such litigation are such that a ruling for the plaintiffs could have an adverse impact on our planned surface mining operations. In 2009, the EPA announced publicly that it will exercise its statutory right to more actively review Section 404 permitting actions by the Corps. In the third quarter of 2009, the EPA announced that it would further review 79 surface mining permit applications, including four of our permits. These 79 permits were identified as likely to impact water quality and therefore requiring additional review under the Clean Water Act. EPA oversight could further delay and/or restrict the issuance of such permits, either of which events could have an adverse impact on our planned mining operations. More recently, the EPA announced acceptable levels for the conductivity of water in streams receiving discharge from permitted coal mining sites in a six-state area of Central A ppalachia, including Kentucky, where we operate. If such levels of conductivity are permanently imposed, they could have a significant impact on our ability to secure Section 404 permits and have a material impact on our operations. The National Mining Association (NMA), on behalf of its member companies including coal producers such as ourselves, has filed suit against the EPA and the Corps contesting the legality of the enhanced review process and the imposition of such conductivity standard. Recently, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia, before which this suit was brought, issued its opinion denying the EPA’s motion to dismiss the case on grounds that there was no final agency action, that the case was not ripe for adjudication and that the NMA lacked standing. The court also denied the NMA’s motion for a preliminary injunction of EPA’s exercise of such oversight and the imposition of such standard. The states of Wes t Virginia and Kentucky, and the coal associations in those states, have also filed suits contesting these actions by the EPA. We have significant reclamation and mine closure obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are materially inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. The SMCRA establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as many aspects of underground mining. We accrue for the costs of current mine disturbance and of final mine closure, including the cost of treating mine water discharge where necessary. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles we are required to account for the costs related to the closure of mines and the reclamation of the land upon exhaustion of coal reserves. The fair value of an asset retirement obligation is recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. The present value of the estimated asset retirement costs is capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. 60;At December 31, 2010, we had accrued $48.4 million related to estimated mine reclamation costs. The amounts recorded are dependent upon a number of variables, including the estimated future retirement costs, estimated proven reserves, assumptions involving profit margins, inflation rates, and the assumed credit-adjusted interest rates. Furthermore, these obligations are unfunded. If these accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results could be adversely affected. 22 Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as terrorist attacks and acts of war. Future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers could cause delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to our customers, decreased sales of our coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable fro m our customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any, or a combination, of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Operations We have experienced operating losses and net losses in recent years and may experience losses in the future. We experienced operating losses and net losses in each of the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. While we were profitable in the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we must continue to carefully manage our business, including the balance of our long-term and short-term sales contracts and our production costs. Although we seek to balance our contract mix to achieve optimal revenues over the long term, the market price of coal is affected by many factors that are outside of our control. Our production costs have increased in recent years, and we expect higher costs to continue for the next several years. Additionally, certain of our long term contracts for sales of coal are priced substantially above current spot prices for coal. Our profitability in the future will be impacted by the price levels that we achieve on future long term contracts. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve profitability in the future. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our revenues. For 2010, we generated approximately 88% of our total revenues from several long-term contracts and spot sales with electrical utilities, including 39% from South Carolina Public Service Authority, 32% from Georgia Power Company and 11% from Indianapolis Power and Light. At December 31, 2010, we had coal supply agreements with these customers that expire in 2011 to 2012. The execution of a substantial coal supply agreement is frequently the basis on which we undertake the development of coal reserves required to be supplied under the contract. Many of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that permit adjustment of the contract price upward or downward at specified times. Failure of the parties to agree on a price under those provisions may allow either party to either terminate the contract or reduce the coal to be delivered under the contract. Coal supply agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by the customer or us for the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as: · British thermal units (Btu’s); · sulfur content; · ash content; · grindability; and · ash fusion temperature. In some cases, failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. In addition, all of our contracts allow our customers to renegotiate or terminate their contracts in the event of changes in regulations or other governmental impositions affecting our industry that increase the cost of coal beyond specified limits. Further, we have been required in the past to purchase sulfur credits or make other pricing adjustments to comply with contractual requirements relating to the sulfur content of coal sold to our customers, and may be required to do so in the future. 23 The operating profits we realize from coal sold under supply agreements depend on a variety of factors. In addition, price adjustment and other provisions may increase our exposure to short-term coal price volatility provided by those contracts. If a substantial portion of our coal supply agreements expire or are modified or terminated, we could be materially adversely affected to the extent that we are unable to find alternate buyers for our coal at the same level of profitability. As a result, we might not be able to replace existing long-term coal supply agreements at the same prices or with similar profit margins when they expire or are modified or terminated. In addition, our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered under these contracts depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. The bankruptcy of any of our customers could materially and adversely affect our financial position. Our operating results will be negatively impacted if we are unable to balance our mix of contract and spot sales. We have implemented a sales plan that includes long-term contracts (one year or greater) and spot sales/ short-term contracts (less than one year). We have structured our sales plan based on the assumptions that demand will remain adequate to maintain current shipping levels and that any disruptions in the market will be relatively short-lived. If we are unable to maintain our planned balance of contract sales with spot sales, or our markets become depressed for an extended period of time, our volumes and margins could decrease, negatively affecting our operating results. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we lose senior executives or fail to employ needed additional personnel. The loss of senior executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. There may be a limited number of persons with the requisite experience and skills to serve in our senior management positions. We may not be able to locate or employ qualified executives on acceptable terms. In addition, as our business develops and expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to attract and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel. We might not continue to be able to employ key personnel, or to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain senior executives or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Underground mining is subject to increased regulation, and may require us to incur additional cost. Underground coal mining is subject to ever increasing federal and state regulatory control relating to mine safety and health and to ever increasing enforcement activities intended to compel compliance with such laws and regulations. Within the last few years the industry has seen enactment of the federal MINER Act and subsequent additional legislation and regulation imposing significant new safety initiatives and the Dodd-Frank Act imposing new mine safety information reporting requirements. Various states also have enacted their own new laws and regulations imposing additional requirements related to mine safety. These new laws and regulations have and will continue to cause us to incur substantial additional costs, which will adversely impact our operating performance. The U.S. Department of Labor, Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), periodically notifies certain coal mines that a potential pattern of violations may exist based upon an initial statistical screening of violation history and pattern criteria review by MSHA. In the past, certain of our mines have received notices that a potential pattern of violations might exist. Upon receipt of such a notification, we conduct a comprehensive review of the operation that received the notification and prepare and submit to MSHA a plan designed to enhance employee safety at the mine through better education, training, mining practices, and safety management. Following implementation of the plan, MSHA conducts a complete inspection of the mine and further evaluates the situation and then advis es the operator whether a pattern of violation exists and whether further action will be taken. No pattern of violations has been found to exist at any of our mines that have received such a notification. The failure to remediate the situation resulting in a finding that a pattern of violation does exist at a mine could have a significant impact on our operations, including the permanent or temporary closure of our mines. 24 In 2010, a U.S. House of Representatives committee approved a mine safety bill which would give MSHA additional powers to temporarily close mines, mandate additional safety training and impose larger penalties on companies and their executives. A comparable bill introduced in the US Senate failed to receive the necessary votes for passage. If reintroduced and subsequently enacted, this or a similar bill could further increase our costs and impact operating performance. The Dodd-Frank Act includes new requirements for reporting certain mine safety information on a Form 8-K, and for including additional mine safety disclosures in our periodic reports filed with the SEC. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the SEC is authorized to issue rules and regulations regarding mine safety disclosures, and the SEC has issued proposed rules as of the date of this Form 10-K. While the new rules are not yet in effect, such rulemaking by the SEC may cause us to incur additional costs in complying with the new reporting and disclosure requirements. Unexpected increases in raw material costs could significantly impair our operating results. Our coal mining operations use significant amounts of steel, petroleum products and other raw materials in various pieces of mining equipment, supplies and materials, including the roof bolts required by the room and pillar method of mining. Recently and historically, petroleum prices and other commodity prices have been volatile. If the price of steel or other of these materials increase, our operational expenses will increase, which could have a significant negative impact on our cash flow and operating results. Coal mining is subject to conditions or events beyond our control, which could cause our quarterly or annual results to deteriorate. Our coal mining operations are conducted, in large part, in underground mines and, to a lesser extent, at surface mines. These mines are subject to conditions or events beyond our control that could disrupt operations, affect production and the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time and have a significant impact on our operating results. These conditions or events have included: · variations in thickness of the layer, or seam, of coal; · variations in geological conditions; · amounts of rock and other natural materials intruding into the coal seam; · equipment failures and unexpected major repairs; · unexpected maintenance problems; · unexpected departures of one or more of our contract miners; · fires and explosions from methane and other sources; · accidental minewater discharges or other environmental accidents; · other accidents or natural disasters; and · weather conditions. Mining in Central Appalachia is complex due to geological characteristics of the region. The geological characteristics of coal reserves in Central Appalachia, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. In addition, as compared to mines in other regions permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements are more costly and time consuming to satisfy. These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of, and customers’ ability to use coal produced by, operators in Central Appalachia, including us. 25 Our future success depends upon our ability to acquire or develop additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Our recoverable reserves decline as we produce coal. Since we attempt, where practical, to mine our lowest-cost reserves first, we may not be able to mine all of our reserves at a similar cost as we do at our current operations. Our planned development and exploration projects might not result in significant additional reserves, and we might not have continuing success developing additional mines. For example, our construction of additional mining facilities necessary to exploit our reserves could be delayed or terminated due to various factors, including unforeseen geological conditions, weather delays or unanticipated development costs. Our ability to acquire additional coal reserves in the future also could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future deb t facilities, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties or the lack of suitable acquisition candidates. In order to develop our reserves, we must receive various governmental permits. We have not yet applied for the permits required or developed the mines necessary to mine all of our reserves. In addition, we might not continue to receive the permits necessary for us to operate profitably in the future. We may not be able to negotiate new leases from the government or from private parties or obtain mining contracts for properties containing additional reserves or maintain our leasehold interests in properties on which mining operations are not commenced during the term of the lease. Factors beyond our control could impact the amount and pricing of coal supplied by our independent contractors and other third parties. In addition to coal we produce from our Company-operated mines, we have mines that typically are operated by independent contract mine operators, and we purchase coal from third parties for resale. For 2011, we anticipate less than 10% of our total production will come from mines operated by independent contract mine operators and from third party purchased coal sources. Operational difficulties, changes in demand for contract mine operators from our competitors and other factors beyond our control could affect the availability, pricing and quality of coal produced for us by independent contract mine operators. Disruptions in supply, increases in prices paid for coal produced by independent contract mine operators or purchased from third parties, or the availability of more lucra tive direct sales opportunities for our purchased coal sources could increase our costs or lower our volumes, either of which could negatively affect our profitability. We face significant uncertainty in estimating our recoverable coal reserves, and variations from those estimates could lead to decreased revenues and profitability. Forecasts of our future performance are based on estimates of our recoverable coal reserves. Estimates of those reserves were initially based on studies conducted by Marshall Miller & Associates, Inc. in 2004 for our CAPP reserves and 2005 and 2006 for our Midwest reserves in accordance with industry-accepted standards which we have updated for current activity using similar methodologies. A number of sources of information were used to determine recoverable reserves estimates, including: • currently available geological, mining and property control data and maps; • our own operational experience and that of our consultants; • historical production from similar areas with similar conditions; • previously completed geological and reserve studies; • the assumed effects of regulations and taxes by governmental agencies; and • assumptions governing future prices and future operating costs. Reserve estimates will change from time to time to reflect, among other factors: • mining activities; • new engineering and geological data; • acquisition or divestiture of reserve holdings; and • modification of mining plans or mining methods. 26 Therefore, actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties, and costs associated with our mining operations, may vary from estimates. These variations could be material, and therefore could result in decreased profitability. Our operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain required surety bonds. Federal and state laws require bonds to secure our obligations to reclaim lands used for mining, to pay federal and state workers’ compensation and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. As of December 31, 2010, we had outstanding surety bonds with third parties for post-mining reclamation totaling $60.2 million. Furthermore, we have surety bonds for an additional $44.9 million in place for our federal and state workers’ compensation obligations and other miscellaneous obligations. Insurance companies have informed us, along with other participants in the coal industry, that they no longer will provide surety bonds for workers’ compensation and other post-employment benefits without collateral. We have satisfied our obligations under these statut es and regulations by providing letters of credit, cash collateral or other assurances of payment. However, letters of credit can be significantly more costly to us than surety bonds. The issuance of letters of credit under our Revolver also reduces amounts that we can borrow under our Revolver. If we are unable to secure surety bonds for these obligations in the future, and are forced to secure letters of credit indefinitely, our profitability may be negatively affected. Our work force could become unionized in the future, which could adversely affect the stability of our production and reduce our profitability. Our company owned mines are currently operated by union-free employees. However, our subsidiaries’ employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. Any unionization of our subsidiaries’ employees, or the employees of third-party contractors who mine coal for us, could adversely affect the stability of our production and reduce our profitability. The current administration has indicated that it will support legislation that may make it easier for employees to unionize. Legislation has been proposed to the United States Congress to enact a law allowing our workers to choose union representation solely by signing election cards (“Card Check”), which would eliminate the use of secret ballots to elect union representation. While the impact is uncertain, if Card Check legislation is enacted into law, it will be administratively easier to unionize coal mines and may lead to more coal mines becoming unionized. We have significant unfunded obligations for long-term employee benefits for which we accrue based upon assumptions, which, if incorrect, could result in us being required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. We are required by law to provide various long-term employee benefits. We accrue amounts for these obligations based on the present value of expected future costs. We employed an independent actuary to complete estimates for our workers’ compensation and black lung (both state and federal) obligations. At December 31, 2010, the current and non-current portions of these obligations included $45.7 million for coal workers’ black lung benefits and $64.9 million for workers’ compensation benefits. We use a valuation method under which the total present and future liabilities are booked based on actuarial studies. Our independent actuary updates these liability estimates annually. However, if our assumptions are incorrect, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. All of these obligations are unfunded. In addition, the federal government and the governments of the states in which we operate consider changes in workers’ compensation laws from time to time. Such changes, if enacted, could increase our benefit expenses and payments. We may be unable to adequately provide funding for our pension plan obligations based on our current estimates of those obligations. We provide benefits under a defined benefit pension plan that was frozen in 2007. As of December 31, 2010, we estimated that our obligation under the pension plan was underfunded by approximately $12.0 million. If future payments are insufficient to fund the pension plan adequately to cover our future pension obligations, we could incur cash expenditures and costs materially higher than anticipated. The pension obligation is calculated annually and is based on several assumptions, including then prevailing conditions, which may change from year to year. In any year, if our assumptions are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. 27 Substantially all of our assets are subject to security interests. Substantially all of our cash, receivables, inventory and other assets are subject to various liens and security interests under our debt instruments. If one of these security interest holders becomes entitled to exercise its rights as a secured party, it would have the right to foreclose upon and sell, or otherwise transfer, the collateral subject to its security interest, and the collateral accordingly would be unavailable to us and our other creditors, except to the extent, if any, that other creditors have a superior or equal security interest in the affected collateral or the value of the affected collateral exceeds the amount of indebtedness in respect of which these foreclosure rights are exercised. Our current leverage amount may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our total consolidated long-term debt as of December 31, 2010 was $284.0 million (net of a discount on our convertible notes of $38.5 million), $150.0 million of which matures in June 2012. Our level of indebtedness could result in the following: • it could affect our ability to satisfy our outstanding obligations; • a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations will have to be dedicated to interest and principal payments and may not be available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, expansion, acquisitions or general corporate or other purposes; • it may impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future; • it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and • it may make us more vulnerable to downturns in our business, our industry or the economy in general. Our operations may not generate sufficient cash to enable us to service our debt. If we fail to make a payment on our debt, this could cause us to be in default on our outstanding indebtedness. In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, and, as a result, the related risks that we now face, including those described above, could intensify. We expect that our indebtedness will increase in connection with the proposed acquisition of IRP. We currently have $150 million of Senior Notes outstanding that are due in June 2012. There is no assurance that cash, future borrowings or equity financing will be available for the payment or refinancing of the Senior Notes at their maturity. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing on favorable terms, we could face substantial liquidity pressures and might be required to sell material assets or operations to meet our debt service requirements. We may be unable to comply with restrictions imposed by the terms of our indebtedness, which could result in a default under these instruments. Our debt instruments impose a number of restrictions on us. A failure to comply with these restrictions could adversely affect our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility or result in an event of default under our debt instruments. Our debt instruments contain financial and other covenants that create limitations on our ability to, among other things, utilize the full amount on our revolver for borrowings or to issue letters of credit or incur additional debt, and require us to maintain various financial ratios and comply with various other financial covenants. The minimum Adjusted EBITDA and Leverage Ratio covenants are only applicable if our unrestricted cash falls below $75 million and remain in effect until our unrestricted cash exceeds $75 million for 90 consec utive days (the Trigger Event). As of December 31, 2010, our unrestricted cash was $180.4 million. These most restrictive covenants include the following: · If we have a Trigger Event, our revolving credit facility requires that we achieve a minimum Adjusted EBITDA, which is defined in that agreement as “Consolidated EBITDA”. Adjusted EBITDA is measured at the end of each quarter for the preceding 12 months. If measured, the required minimum Adjusted EBITDA would be $105.0 million during 2011. In order to meet the twelve month Adjusted EBITDA target at December 31, 2010, we needed Adjusted EBITDA of $105.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2010. Our Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $156.6 million. The most directly comparable US GAAP financial measure is net income. For the year ended December 31 2010, we had net income of $78.2 million. Adjusted EBITDA is defined and reconciled to EBITDA and Net Loss under “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” in Pa rt I – Item 2 – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 28 · If we have a Trigger Event, our revolving credit facility requires that our Leverage Ratio (as defined in the revolving credit facility) not exceed a specified multiple at the end of each quarter. If measured, the Leverage Ratio would be permitted to be 0.63X to 0.60X during 2011. Our Leverage Ratio was 0.38X as of December 31, 2010. · Our revolving credit facility limits the Capital Expenditures (as defined in the revolving credit facility) that we may make or agree to make in any fiscal year. For 2010, we were limited to Capital Expenditures of $100.0 million and we made actual Capital Expenditures of $95.4 million. For 2011, we cannot make Capital Expenditures in excess of $119.6 million which includes $4.6 million of unused Capital expenditures from 2010 that we are allowed to carry forward and use only in 2011 (where they shall be deemed to be spent last). Additional detail regarding the terms of our revolving credit facility, including these covenants and the related definitions, can be found in our debt agreements, as amended, that have been filed as exhibits to our SEC filings. In the event of a default, our lenders could terminate their commitments to us and declare all amounts borrowed, together with accrued interest and fees, immediately due and payable. If this were to occur, we might not be able to pay these amounts or we might be forced to seek amendments to our debt agreements which could make the terms of these agreements more onerous for us and require the payment of amendment or waiver fees. Failure to comply with these restrictions, even if waived by our lenders, also could adversely affect our credit ratings, which could increase our costs of debt financings and impair our ability to obtain additional debt financing. While the lenders have, to date, waived any covenant violations and amended the covenants, there is no guarantee they wi ll continue to do so if future violations occur. Changes in our credit ratings could adversely affect our costs and expenses. Any downgrade in our credit ratings could adversely affect our ability to borrow and result in more restrictive borrowing terms, including increased borrowing costs, more restrictive covenants and the extension of less open credit. This, in turn, could affect our internal cost of capital estimates and therefore impact operational decisions. Defects in title or loss of any leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to mine these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. We conduct substantially all of our mining operations on properties that we lease. The loss of any lease could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated reserves. Because we generally do not obtain title insurance or otherwise verify title to our leased properties, our right to mine some of our reserves has been in the past, and may again in the future be, adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist. In order to obtain leases or rights to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we have had to, and may in the future have to, incur unanticipated costs. In addition, we may not be able to successfully negotiate new leases for properties containing additional reserves. Some leases have minimum production requi rements. Failure to meet those requirements could result in losses of prepaid royalties and, in some rare cases, could result in a loss of the lease itself. Inability to satisfy contractual obligations may adversely affect our profitability. From time to time, we have disputes with our customers over the provisions of long-term contracts relating to, among other things, coal quality, pricing, quantity and delays in delivery. In addition, we may not be able to produce sufficient amounts of coal to meet our commitments to our customers. Our inability to satisfy our contractual obligations could result in our need to purchase coal from third party sources to satisfy those obligations or may result in customers initiating claims against us. We may not be able to resolve all of these disputes in a satisfactory manner, which could result in substantial damages or otherwise harm our relationships with customers. 29 We may be unable to exploit opportunities to diversify our operations. Our future business plan may consider opportunities other than underground and surface mining in eastern Kentucky and southern Indiana. We will consider opportunities to further increase the percentage of coal that comes from surface mines. We may also consider opportunities to expand both surface and underground mining activities in areas that are outside of eastern Kentucky and southern Indiana. We may also consider opportunities in other energy-related areas that are not prohibited by the Indenture governing our senior notes due 2012 or other financing agreements. If we undertake these diversification strategies and fail to execute them successfully, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. There are risks associated with our acquisition strategy, including our inability to successfully complete acquisitions, our assumption of liabilities, dilution of your investment, significant costs and additional financing required. We may explore opportunities to expand our operations through strategic acquisitions of other coal mining companies. Risks associated with our current and potential acquisitions include the disruption of our ongoing business, problems retaining the employees of the acquired business, assets acquired proving to be less valuable than expected, the potential assumption of unknown or unexpected liabilities, costs and problems, the inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, the difficulty of managing a larger company, the risk of becoming involved in labor, commercial or regulatory disputes or litigation related to the new enterprises and the difficulty of integrating the acquired operations and personnel into our existing business. We may choose to use shares of our common stock or other securities to finance a portion of the consideration for future acquisitions, either by issuing them to pay a portion of the purchase price or selling additional shares to investors to raise cash to pay a portion of the purchase price. If shares of our common stock do not maintain sufficient market value or potential acquisition candidates are unwilling to accept shares of our common stock as part of the consideration for the sale of their businesses, we will be required to raise capital through additional sales of debt or equity securities, which might not be possible, or forego the acquisition opportunity, and our growth could be limited. In addition, securities issued in such acquisitions may dilute the holdings of our current or f uture shareholders. Our currently available cash may not be sufficient to finance any additional acquisitions. We believe that our cash on hand, the availability under our revolving credit facility and cash generated from our operations will provide us with adequate liquidity through 2011. However, such funds may not provide sufficient cash to fund any future acquisitions. Accordingly, we may need to conduct additional debt or equity financings in order to fund any such additional acquisitions, unless we issue shares of our common stock as consideration for those acquisitions. If we are unable to obtain any such financings, we may be required to forego future acquisition opportunities Our current reserve base in the Midwest is limited. Our southern Indiana mining complex currently has rights to proven and probable reserves that we believe will be exhausted in approximately 14 years at 2010 levels of production, compared to our current Central Appalachia mining complexes, which have reserves that we believe will last an average of approximately 37 years at 2010 levels of production. We intend to increase our reserves in southern Indiana by acquiring rights to additional exploitable reserves that are either adjacent to or nearby our current reserves. If we are unable to successfully acquire such rights on acceptable terms, or if our exploration or acquisition activities indicate that such coal reserves or rights do not exist or are not available on acceptable terms, our production and revenues will decline as our reserves i n that region are depleted. Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines also may have an adverse effect on our operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines. 30 Surface mining is subject to increased regulation, and may require us to incur additional costs. Surface mining is subject to numerous regulations related, among others, to blasting activities that can result in additional costs. For example, when blasting in close proximity to structures, additional costs are incurred in designing and implementing more complex blast delay regimens, conducting pre-blast surveys and blast monitoring, and the risk of potential blast-related damages increases. Since the nature of surface mining requires ongoing disturbance to the surface, environmental compliance costs can be significantly greater than with underground operations. In addition, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers imposes stream mitigation requirements on surface mining operations. These regulations require that footage of stream loss be replaced through various mitigatio n processes, if any ephemeral, intermittent, or perennial streams are filled due to mining operations. In 2008, the U.S. Department of Interior’s Office of Surface Mining imposed regulatory requirements applicable to excess spoil placement, including the requirement that operators return as much spoil as possible to the excavation created by the mine. These regulations may cause us to incur significant additional costs, which could adversely impact our operating performance. We are subject to various legal proceedings, which may have an adverse effect on our business. We are party to a number of legal proceedings incidental to our normal business activities, including a large number of workers’ compensation claims. While we cannot predict the outcome of the proceedings, there is always the potential that the costs of defending litigation in an individual matter or the aggregation of many matters could have an adverse effect on our cash flows, results of operations or financial position. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards may be subject to limitation Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, imposes an annual limit on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in its stock ownership or equity structure. Our ability to use net operating losses is limited by prior changes in our ownership, and may be further limited by the issuance of common stock in connection with the convertible notes issued in 2009, or by the consummation of other transactions. As a result, as we earn net taxable income, our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset U.S. federal taxable income may become subject to limitations, which could potentially result in increased future tax liabilities for us. The IRP Acquisition may not be consummated, and if consummated, we may fail to realize the growth prospects and cost savings anticipated as a result of the IRP Acquisition. There are a number of risks and uncertainties relating to the IRP Acquisition. For example, the IRP Acquisition may not be consummated or may not be consummated in the timeframe or manner currently anticipated, as a result of several factors, including, among other things, the failure of one or more of the conditions to closing. There can be no assurance that the conditions to closing of the IRP Acquisition will be satisfied or waived or that other events will not intervene to delay or result in the termination of the IRP Acquisition. Any delay in closing or a failure to close could have a negative impact on our business and stock price. The success of the IRP Acquisition will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities and growth prospects from combining our businesses with those of IRP. We may never realize these business opportunities and growth prospects. Integrating operations will be complex and will require significant efforts and expenditures on the part of both us and IRP. Our management might have its attention diverted while trying to integrate operations and corporate and administrative infrastructures. We might experience increased competition that limits our ability to expand our business, and we might not be able to capitalize on expected business opportunities, including retaining current customers. If any of these factors limit our abili ty to integrate the operations successfully or on a timely basis, the expectations of future results of operations expected to result from the IRP Acquisition might not be met. In addition, James River Coal Company and International Resource Partners have operated and, until the completion of the IRP Acquisition, will continue to operate, independently. It is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of each company’s ongoing businesses, tax costs or inefficiencies, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, information technology systems, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or other third parties or our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of the IRP Acquisition and could harm our financial performance. Risks Relating to our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has been volatile and difficult to predict, and may continue to be volatile and difficult to predict in the future, and the value of your investment may decline. The market price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may continue to be volatile in the future. The market price of our common stock will be affected by, among other things: • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • sales of shares of our common stock by our officers and directors or by our shareholders; • changes in general conditions in the economy or the financial markets; • changes in accounting standards, policies or interpretations; • other developments affecting us, our industry, clients or competitors; and • the operating and stock price performance of companies that investors deem comparable to us. Any of these factors could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, make it difficult to predict the market price for our common stock in the future and cause the value of your investment to decline. Dividends are limited by our revolving credit facility, senior notes and convertible senior notes. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. In addition, covenants in our revolving credit facility, senior notes and convertible senior notes restrict our ability to pay cash dividends and may prohibit the payment of dividends and certain other payments. 31 Provisions of our articles of incorporation, bylaws and shareholder rights agreement could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could deter or prevent a change in control. Some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Virginia statutes, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control. These provisions may make it more difficult for other persons, without the approval of our Board of Directors, to make a tender offer or otherwise acquire substantial amounts of our common stock or to launch other takeover attempts that a shareholder might consider to be in such shareholder's best interest. These provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We have a shareholder rights agreement which, in certain circumstances, including a person or group acquiring, or the commencement of a tender or exchange offer that would result in a person or group acquiring, beneficial ownership of more than 20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, would entitle each right holder, other than the person or group triggering the plan, to receive, upon exercise of the right, shares of our common stock having a then-current fair value equal to twice the exercise price of a right. This shareholder rights agreement provides us with a defensive mechanism that decreases the risk that a hostile acquirer will attempt to take control of us without negotiating directly with our Board of Directors. The shareholder rights agreement may discourage acquirers from attempting to purchase us, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 