Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, including the financial statements and related notes, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these risks or uncertainties were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash after establishment of cash reserves to pay cash distributions at the current level. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay distributions at the current level. Under our limited liability company agreement, we set aside any cash reserve necessary for the conduct of our business before making a distribution to our unitholders. The amount of cash we have available for distribution is more a function of our cash flow than of our net income, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. 34 Table of Contents The amount of cash we can distribute principally depends upon the cash we generate from operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: •the amount of natural gas gathered and transported on our pipelines; •the volume and NGL content of natural gas we process, and the volume of NGLs we fractionate; •the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services; •the fees we pay to third parties for their services; •the prices of natural gas, NGLs, condensate and crude oil; •the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; •the relationship between Mont Belvieu and Conway NGL prices; •the operational performance and efficiency of our assets, including our plants and equipment; •the operational performance and efficiency of third-party processing, fractionation or other facilities that provide services to us •the level of our operating costs and the impact of inflation on those costs; and •the weather in our operating areas. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: •the amount of capital we spend on projects, the profitability of such projects and the timing of the associated cash flow; •the cost of any acquisitions we make; •the effectiveness of our hedging program; •the creditworthiness of our hedging, commercial and other contract counterparties; •the timing (monthly, quarterly or annual) of our producers' obligations to make volume deficiency payments to us; •performance by producers, customers and third-party service providers under their contracts with us; •our ability to borrow money and access capital markets on acceptable terms; •our debt service requirements; •fluctuations in our working capital needs; •restrictions on distributions imposed by our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes; •restrictions on distributions by entities in which we own interests; •the amount of cash reserves established by our Board of Directors for the proper conduct of our business; and •prevailing economic conditions. Some of the factors described above are beyond our control. If we decrease distributions, the market price for our units may be adversely affected. 35 Table of Contents Our cash flow and profitability depend upon prices and market demand for natural gas, oil and NGLs, which are beyond our control and can be volatile. Our cash flow and profitability are affected by prevailing NGL and natural gas prices, and we are subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to recur periodically. We derive approximately 36% of our gross margin from contracts with terms that are commodity price sensitive. As a result, our cash flow and profitability depend to a significant extent on the prices at which we buy and sell natural gas and at which we sell NGLs and condensate. The markets and prices for natural gas, condensate and NGLs depend upon many factors beyond our control. These factors include supply and demand for oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas ("LNG"), nuclear energy, coal and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: •the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; •the levels of domestic oil and natural gas production and NGL extraction; •storage levels for oil, condensate, natural gas, LNG and NGLs; •the availability of imported oil, condensate, natural gas, LNG and NGLs; •international demand for LNG, oil, condensate, NGLs and NGL derivative products such as ethylene and propylene; •actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; •the availability of takeaway and delivery infrastructure for natural gas, NGLs and condensate; •the availability of downstream NGL fractionation facilities; •our proximity to markets for natural gas, condensate and NGLs and the degree to which markets are accessible generally; •the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; •the impact of energy conservation efforts; and •the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Changes in commodity prices may also indirectly impact our profitability by influencing drilling activity and well operations, and thus the volume of natural gas we gather and process. This volatility may cause our gross margin and cash flows to vary widely from period to period. We use commodity derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to commodity prices, but these instruments also are subject to inherent risks. Please read "— Our hedging activities do not eliminate our exposure to commodity price and interest rate risks and may reduce our cash flow and subject our earnings to increased volatility." Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, our success depends on our ability to continually connect new supplies of natural gas and NGLs. Our pipeline systems and processing or fractionation facilities are connected to or dependent on natural gas fields and wells from which the production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput volumes on our pipeline systems and inlet volumes at our processing plants, we must continually connect new supplies of natural gas and NGLs. The primary factors affecting our ability to do so include the level of successful drilling activity near our gathering systems and our ability to compete with other midstream service providers for new natural gas supplies. 36 Table of Contents Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect drilling and production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new oil and gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as oil or gas prices decrease, or in the case of rich gas drilling supported by NGL prices, as NGL prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of our operations or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their drilling and production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, drilling costs, the availability of drilling rigs, equipment, materials and labor for drilling and completing wells, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. We face strong competition in acquiring new natural gas supplies. Competitors to our pipeline operations include producers, major interstate and intrastate pipelines, and other natural gas gatherers and midstream companies. Competition for natural gas supplies is primarily based on the location of pipeline facilities, access to related services such as pipeline capacity and processing and NGL handling, contract terms, reputation, efficiency, flexibility and reliability. If we are unable to maintain or increase the throughput on our pipeline systems because of decreased drilling activity, production declines, or competitive pressures, or for any other reason, then our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders will be adversely affected. We generally do not obtain reservoir engineering reports evaluating reserves dedicated to our pipeline systems; therefore, volumes of natural gas transported on our pipeline systems in the future could be less than we anticipate, which may cause our revenues and operating income to be less than we expect. We generally do not obtain reservoir engineering reports evaluating natural gas reserves connected to our pipeline systems due to producers' general unwillingness to provide reserve information, as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, we do not have estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of reserves connected to our pipeline systems is less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, condensate or NGLs, the volumes of natural gas, condensate or NGLs that we gather and process or fractionate would likely decline. A sustained decline in natural gas, condensate, or NGL volumes would cause our revenues to be less than we expect, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to you. We rely on third-party pipelines and other facilities in providing service to our customers. If one or more of these pipelines or facilities were to become capacity-constrained or unavailable, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to provide service to our customers depends in part on the availability, proximity and capacity of third-party pipeline, processing, fractionation and other facilities, and because we do not own or operate these facilities, their continuing operation or availability is not within our control. For example, we rely on Kinder Morgan's Laredo-to-Katy pipeline to transport natural gas from Eagle Ford Gathering and several of our Texas gathering systems to our Houston Central complex, and we rely on Dow Hydrocarbon and Formosa to take delivery of NGLs from Houston Central. We rely on ONEOK Hydrocarbon to take delivery of NGLs from our Saint Jo plant and from several of our Oklahoma processing plants. We also depend on other third-party processing plants, pipelines and other facilities to provide our customers with processing, delivery, fractionation or transportation options. Like us, these third-party service providers are subject to risks inherent in the midstream business, including capacity constraints, natural disasters and operational, mechanical or other hazards, as well as service interruptions for scheduled maintenance. The curtailments arising from these and similar circumstances may last from a few days to several months. NGL fractionation and transportation facilities and 37 Table of Contents trucking services on which we depend are subject to increasing capacity constraints. Also, some third-party pipelines have minimum gas quality specifications that at times may limit or eliminate our transportation options. If any of these facilities becomes unavailable or limited in its ability to provide services on which we depend, our cash flow and results of operations could be adversely affected. We would likely incur higher fees or other costs in arranging for alternatives. Any significant curtailment in gathering system or pipeline capacity, or significant delay in the construction of necessary processing and transportation facilities, would interfere with our ability to serve our customers. A delay, prolonged interruption or reduction of service on Kinder Morgan's pipeline or at Dow Hydrocarbon, Formosa, ONEOK Hydrocarbon, or another pipeline or facility on which we depend could hinder our ability to contract for additional natural gas and condensate services. Constructing new assets subjects us to risks of project delays, cost overruns, and lower- or higher-than-anticipated volumes of natural gas, NGLs or condensate once a project is completed. Our operating cash flows from our capital projects may not be immediate or meet our expectations. One of the ways we grow our business is by constructing additions or modifications to our existing facilities. We also construct new facilities, either near our existing operations or in new areas. We may be unable to complete construction projects on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Construction projects require significant amounts of capital and involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal, operational and geological uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. These projects also involve numerous economic uncertainties, including the impact of inflation on project costs and the availability of required resources. For example, our ongoing projects include the installation of a 400 MMcf/d cryogenic processing facility at our Houston Central complex scheduled to be completed in 2014. We are unable to begin construction of this facility until we receive a permit from the Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA. Although we anticipate receiving the permit by mid-2013, the timing of the permit's issuance is out of our control. Our ability to fully benefit from our Eagle Ford Shale strategy is dependent on the timely completion of this facility. Construction expenditures may occur over an extended period of time, yet we will not receive any material increases in cash flow until the project is completed and fully operational. Moreover, our cash flow from a project may be delayed or may not meet our expectations. Project specifications and expectations regarding cost, timing, asset performance, investment returns and other matters usually rely in part on the expertise of third parties such as producers whose gas we gather, engineers, technical experts and construction contractors. These estimates may prove to be inaccurate because of numerous operational, technological, geologic, economic and other uncertainties. Estimates from producers regarding the timing, volume and composition of anticipated oil, gas, condensate or NGL production are subject to numerous uncertainties beyond our control and may prove to be inaccurate. When the composition of actual production differs significantly from estimates on which we rely to determine the capacity and operating specifications of new facilities, newly constructed, modified or expanded facilities may be unable to perform at the levels we expect. For the first four months of 2012, our operating results were negatively impacted by reduced operating performance at our Houston Central complex that was partly due to Eagle Ford Shale gas with higher-than-expected NGL content. Conversely, actual production delivered may fall below volume estimates on which we rely. In either case, we may be unable to achieve our expected cash flow and investment returns. Please read Item 7., "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Trends and Uncertainties — Outlook." We also construct assets in reliance on firm capacity commitments for third-party processing or fractionation downstream of our facilities. For example, we made processing commitments at our Houston 38 Table of Contents Central complex and constructed the Liberty NGL pipeline through our joint venture with Energy Transfer in reliance on Formosa's capacity commitment to us, which requires Formosa to expand its facilities. If Formosa is unable to meet its commitment to us, or if other third-party facilities underperform or are not available when we expect them, our cash flows and results of operations would be adversely affected. Competition could negatively affect us. Our industry is highly competitive. Our competitors may expand or construct midstream systems that would create additional competition for the services we provide to our customers. Some of our competitors are large companies that have greater financial resources and access to supplies of oil, condensate, natural gas and NGLs than we do. We frequently have one or more competitors in the supply basins and markets that we are connected to. This includes new large pipeline systems that have recently been constructed near our assets, and growing competition in the markets that we serve. In addition, our customers may develop their own midstream systems in lieu of using ours. This competition could result in our inability to obtain new supplies, renew contracts and to maintain rates and transportation volumes, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Competition for hiring experienced personnel, particularly in the commercial, engineering, field operations, accounting and financial reporting, tax and land departments, has been strong. In addition, competition to acquire attractive midstream assets has been strong. We may often be outbid by competitors in our attempts to make acquisitions. Our inability to compete effectively in hiring or making acquisitions could have a material adverse impact on our ability to grow. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and other counterparties. A general increase in nonpayment and nonperformance by counterparties could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our counterparties are a major concern in our business. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and other counterparties, such as our lenders and hedging counterparties. Our shift toward a more fee-based contract portfolio means that we are increasingly reliant on the creditworthiness of customers who make fee-based volume commitments, many of which contain deficiency fees for failure to deliver volumes to us. Many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations or debt or equity financing, all of which are subject to adverse changes in commodity prices and economic and market conditions. When commodity prices have been unfavorable for an extended period, some of our customers have experienced a combination of lower cash flow due to commodity prices, reduced borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and reduced availability of debt or equity financing. These factors may result in a significant reduction in our customers' liquidity and ability to pay us or otherwise perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own credit, operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Any increase in nonpayment and nonperformance by our counterparties, either as a result of financial and economic conditions or otherwise, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could adversely affect our liquidity. Our substantial indebtedness could limit our operating and financing flexibility and impair our ability to fulfill our obligations. We have substantial indebtedness. As of February 20, 2013, we had total indebtedness of $1 billion, including our senior unsecured notes and our revolving credit facility, and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility was approximately $271 million. We may incur significant additional 39 Table of Contents indebtedness and other financial obligations in the future. Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could have important consequences to you. For example, these obligations could: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general company requirements; •make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt service requirements or comply with financial or other covenants in our debt agreements; •impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general company purposes or other purposes; •result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and •place us at a disadvantage relative to any competitors that have proportionately less debt or lower borrowing costs. If we are unable to meet our debt service and other financial obligations or comply with our debt covenants, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, in which case our lenders could require us to suspend cash distributions, or seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain such refinancing or equity capital or sell assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. Failure to meet our debt service and other financial obligations could result in defaults under our debt agreements, which, if not cured or waived, would lead to acceleration of our debt and other financial obligations. If we were unable to repay those obligations, our lenders could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding or proceed against any collateral. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may reduce our operating flexibility. The indentures governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to, among other things: •sell assets; •pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our equity interests or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt, if any; •make investments; •incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred units; •create or incur certain liens; •enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; •consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; •engage in transactions with affiliates; •create unrestricted subsidiaries; •enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and •enter into letters of credit. 40 Table of Contents Our revolving credit facility contains similar covenants, as well as covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. The restrictive covenants in our indentures and our revolving credit facility could limit our ability to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or in the economy in general, or conduct operations. In addition, Fort Union, in which we own a 37.04% interest, has debt outstanding under an agreement that includes, among other customary covenants and events of default, a limitation on its ability to make cash distributions. Fort Union can distribute cash to its members only if its ratio of net operating cash flow to debt service is not less than 1.25 to 1.00 and it is not otherwise in default under its credit agreement. If Fort Union fails to comply with this covenant or otherwise defaults under its credit agreement, it would be prohibited from distributing cash to us, and its lenders could accelerate its repayment obligations, both of which would adversely affect our cash flow. We may be unable to raise capital necessary to fully execute our business strategy on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our business strategy contemplates pursuing capital projects and acquisitions. We regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding strategic projects or transactions that we believe will present opportunities to pursue our growth strategy. We will require substantial new capital to finance strategic acquisitions or to complete significant organic expansion or greenfield projects. If capital becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire accretive assets will be limited. The availability and cost of debt and equity capital are subject to general economic conditions and perceptions about the stability of financial markets and the solvency of counterparties. Adverse changes in these factors likely would result in higher interest rates and deterioration in the availability and cost of debt and equity financing. Any limitations on our access to capital will impair our ability to execute our growth strategy. If capital on acceptable terms is not available to us, our inability to fully execute our growth strategy, otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Illiquid capital markets could also limit investment and development by third parties, such as producers and end-users, which could indirectly affect our ability to fully execute our business strategy. Our ability to obtain funding under our revolving credit facility could be impaired by conditions in the financial markets. We rely on our revolving credit facility to finance a significant portion of our capital expenditures. Our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility is subject to conditions in the financial markets, including the solvency of institutional lenders. If we are unable to access funds under our revolving credit facility, we would need to meet our capital requirements using other sources which, depending on economic conditions, may not be available on acceptable terms. If the cash generated from our operations or the funds we are able to obtain under our revolving credit facility or other sources of liquidity are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, then we may need to delay or abandon expansion projects or other business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 41 Table of Contents Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs, that is not fully insured, our operations could be temporarily or permanently impaired, and our liabilities and expenses could be significant. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compression, treating, processing, transportation, and fractionation of natural gas and NGLs, including: •damage to pipelines, pipeline blockages and damage to related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; •inadvertent damage from motor vehicles, construction or farm equipment; •leaks of natural gas, NGLs, condensate and other hydrocarbons; •environmental hazards, such as oil and NGL releases, pipeline or tank ruptures, and unauthorized discharges of toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment; •operator error; and •fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. In addition, mechanical malfunctions, undetected leaks in pipelines, faulty measurement or other errors may result in significant costs or lost revenues. Our assets and operations are primarily concentrated in south and north Texas, central and eastern Oklahoma and in Wyoming, and a natural disaster or other hazard affecting any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operations, even if our own facilities are not directly affected. There can be no assurance that insurance will cover all damages and losses resulting from these types of natural disasters. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. In accordance with typical industry practice, we generally do not have any property insurance on any of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. Our business interruption insurance provides limited coverage for lost revenues arising from physical damage to our processing plants and certain third-party facilities on which we depend, subject to deductibles and time and dollar limitations. If a significant accident or event occurs, that is not fully insured, our operations could be temporarily or permanently impaired, and our liabilities and expenses could be significant. Due to our limited asset diversification, adverse developments in our gathering, transportation, processing and related businesses would have a significant impact on our results of operations. Substantially all of our revenues are generated from our midstream services business, and as a result, our financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas, crude oil, NGLs and condensate. Furthermore, substantially all of our assets are located in Texas, Oklahoma and Wyoming. Due to our limited diversification in asset type and location, an adverse development in the midstream business or in one or more of these areas would have a significantly greater impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition than if we maintained more diverse assets. If we make acquisitions that do not perform as expected, our financial performance may be negatively impacted. Our business strategy includes making acquisitions that we anticipate would increase the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. As a result, from time to time, we evaluate and pursue assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing operations or expand our operations into new regions where our growth strategy can be applied. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete 42 Table of Contents acquisitions in the future or achieve the desired results from any acquisitions we do complete. In addition, failure to successfully integrate our acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions potentially involve numerous risks, including: •operating a significantly larger combined organization and adding operations; •difficulties in integrating the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, especially if the assets acquired are in a new type of midstream business or a new geographic area; •the risk that natural gas production expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed on the anticipated timetable, or at all; •the loss of significant producers or markets or key employees from the acquired businesses; •diversion of management's attention from other business concerns; •failure to realize expected profitability or growth; •failure to realize any expected synergies and cost savings; •exposure to increased competition; •coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; •coordinating or consolidating information technology, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other administrative or compliance functions; and •a decrease in liquidity and increased leverage as a result of using significant amounts of available cash or debt to finance an acquisition. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Because of these risks and challenges, even when we make acquisitions that we believe will increase our ability to distribute cash, those acquisitions may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per unit basis. This could result in lower distributions to our common unitholders and make compliance with financial covenants under our debt agreements more difficult, and, if an acquisition's performance does not improve, could ultimately require us to record an impairment of our interest in the acquired company or assets. Although our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly following an acquisition, you may not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating future acquisitions. We own interests in limited liability companies and a general partnership in which third parties also own interests, which limits our ability to influence significant business decisions affecting these entities. In addition to our wholly owned subsidiaries, we own interests in a number of entities in which third parties also own an interest. These interests include our: •62.5% interest in Webb Duval; •majority interest in Southern Dome; •51% interest in Bighorn; •37.04% interest in Fort Union; •50% interest in Eagle Ford Gathering; •50% interest in Liberty Pipeline Group; and 43 Table of Contents •50% interest in Double Eagle Pipeline. We serve each of these entities as operator, managing member or both, but we do not control any of them. Our ability to make certain substantive business decisions with respect to each is subject to the majority or unanimous approval of the owners or, in the case of Bighorn, of a management committee to which we have the right to appoint 50% of the members. Examples of decisions that require approval include significant expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others. Differences in views among the owners of any of these entities could result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on significant matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and results of operations or prospects of the entity involved and, in turn, the amounts and timing of cash from operations distributed to its members or partners, including us. In addition, we do not control the day-to-day operations of Fort Union. Our lack of control over Fort Union's day-to-day operations and the associated costs of operations could result in our receiving lower cash distributions than we anticipate which could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to our unitholders. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and other facilities are located, so our growth projects and operations could be disrupted by actions of the landowners. We lease the sites on which some of our facilities are located, and we obtain rights-of-way to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for specified periods of time. We may be unable to obtain rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other expansion opportunities. Additionally, acquiring rights-of-way or lease renewals may be more expensive than we anticipate. If a significant existing lease or significant existing right-of-way contract lapses, is terminated or is determined to be invalid, we are subject to the possibility of more onerous terms or increased costs to retain necessary land use. Our inability to obtain or to renew right-of-way contracts or leases could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Failure of the natural gas, NGLs, condensate or other products produced at our plants or shipped on our pipelines to meet the specifications of interconnecting pipelines or markets could result in curtailments by the pipelines or markets. The markets and pipelines to which we deliver natural gas, NGLs, condensate or other products typically establish specifications for the products that they are willing to accept. These specifications include requirements such as hydrocarbon dewpoint, composition, temperature, and foreign content (such as water, sulfur, methane, carbon dioxide, nitrogen and hydrogen sulfide), and these specifications can vary by product, pipeline or markets. If the total mix of a product that we deliver to a pipeline or market fails to meet the applicable product quality specifications, the pipeline or market may refuse to accept all or a part of the products scheduled for delivery to it or may invoice us for the costs to handle the out-of-specification products. In those circumstances, we may be required to find alternative markets for that product or to shut-in the producers of the non-conforming natural gas that is causing the products to be out of specification, potentially reducing our throughput volumes or revenues. Changes in product quality specifications or changes in the quality of gas we receive from producers could reduce our throughput volumes or require us to incur additional handling costs or significant capital costs for new equipment such as nitrogen rejection or amine treating facilities. We may be unable to recover these costs through increased revenues. 44 Table of Contents Our hedging activities do not eliminate our exposure to commodity price and interest rate risks and may reduce our cash flow and subject our earnings to increased volatility. Our operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices, and our revolving credit facility exposes us to fluctuations in interest rates. We attempt to reduce our sensitivity to commodity prices and interest rates using contract terms, financing practices (mix of fixed and floating-rate debt) and derivative financial instruments. To the extent that we use derivative financial instruments, the degree of our exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our hedging activities. We have hedged only portions of our expected NGL and condensate volumes and currently have no interest-rate hedges. Accordingly, we continue to have direct risk with respect to both interest rates and our unhedged commodity volumes. In addition, our hedging strategies cannot offset volume risk. Our ability to enter into new derivative instruments is subject to general economic and market conditions. The markets for instruments we use to hedge our commodity price and interest rate exposure generally reflect conditions in the underlying commodity and debt markets, and to the extent conditions in underlying markets are unfavorable, our ability to enter into new derivative instruments on acceptable terms will be limited. In addition, to the extent, we hedge our commodity price and interest rate risks using swap instruments, we will forego the benefits of favorable changes in commodity prices or interest rates. Our hedging activity may be ineffective or adversely affect our cash flow and liquidity, our earnings or both because, among other factors: •hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile prices or when hedging into extended future periods; •our counterparty in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; and •available hedges may not correspond precisely with the risks against which we seek protection. For example: •the duration of a hedge may not match the duration of the risk against which we seek protection; •variations in the index we use to price a commodity hedge may not adequately correlate with variations in the index we use to sell the physical commodity (known as basis risk); or •we may not produce or process sufficient volumes to cover swap arrangements we enter into for a given period. If our actual volumes are lower than the volumes we estimated when entering into a swap for the period, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative obligation without the benefit of cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity. In 2012, basis risk materialized as a significant factor affecting our hedges for Oklahoma NGLs, because the hedges were priced at Mont Belvieu, while the physical commodity was priced at Conway. The basis spread between these indices reached historic highs, and while the prices we actually received for Oklahoma NGLs were below the strike prices for our hedges, we did not benefit because our hedges were based on Mont Belvieu prices, which remained above our hedge strike prices. Our financial statements may reflect gains or losses arising from exposure to commodity prices or interest rates for which we are unable to enter into fully economically effective hedges. In addition, the standards for cash flow hedge accounting are rigorous. Even when we engage in hedging transactions that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. Our earnings could be subject to increased volatility to the extent our derivatives do not continue to qualify as cash flow hedges, and, if we assume derivatives as part of an acquisition, to the extent we cannot obtain or choose not to seek cash flow hedge accounting for the derivatives we assume. 45 Table of Contents The enactment of derivatives legislation could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to hedge risks associated with our business. On July 21, 2010, new comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ("Dodd-Frank"), was enacted that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, including businesses like ours, that participate in that market. Dodd-Frank requires the CFTC, the SEC and other regulators to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the new legislation. In its rulemaking under Dodd-Frank, the CFTC has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide hedging transactions would be exempt from these position limits. The position limits rule was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Colombia in September 2012, although the CFTC has stated that it will appeal the District Court's decision. The CFTC also has finalized other regulations, including critical rulemakings on the definition of "swap," "security-based swap," "swap dealer" and "major swap participant." Dodd-Frank and CFTC Rules also will require us in connection with certain derivatives activities to comply with clearing and trade-execution requirements (or take steps to qualify for an exemption to such requirements). In addition new regulations may require us to comply with margin requirements although these regulations are not finalized and their application to us is uncertain at this time. Other regulations also remain to be finalized, and the CFTC recently has delayed the compliance dates for various regulations already finalized. As a result it is not possible at this time to predict with certainty the full effects of Dodd-Frank and CFTC rules on us and the timing of such effects. Dodd-Frank also may require the counterparties to our derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. Dodd-Frank and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivatives contracts (including from swap recordkeeping and reporting requirements and through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivatives contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivatives contracts, and increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If we reduce our use of derivatives as a result of Dodd-Frank and regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, Dodd-Frank was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and natural gas. Our revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of Dodd-Frank and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition, and our results of operations. Our sales of natural gas and NGLs and related hedging activities expose us to potential regulatory risks. The Federal Trade Commission, the FERC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to our physical sales of natural gas and NGLs, and any related hedging activities that we undertake, we are required to observe the market-related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Our sales may also be subject to certain reporting and other requirements. Should we violate the anti-market manipulation laws and regulations, we could also be subject to related third-party damage claims by, among others, sellers, royalty owners and taxing authorities. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. 46 Table of Contents Our acquisitions could expose us to potential significant liabilities. We generally assume the liabilities of entities that we acquire and may assume certain liabilities relating to assets that we acquire, including unknown and contingent liabilities. We perform due diligence in connection with our acquisitions and attempt to verify the representations of the sellers, but there may be pending, threatened, contemplated or contingent claims related to environmental, title, regulatory, litigation or other matters of which we are unaware. We may have indemnification claims against sellers for certain of these liabilities, as well as for disclosed liabilities, but our indemnification rights generally will be limited in amount and duration. Our right to indemnification also will be limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party. If our right to indemnification is inadequate to cover the obligations of an acquired entity or relating to acquired assets, or if our indemnifying seller is unable to meet its obligations to us, our liability for such obligations could materially adversely affect our cash flow, operations and financial condition. Federal, state, or local regulatory measures could adversely affect our business. Our pipeline transportation and gathering systems are subject to federal, state and local regulation. Most of our natural gas pipelines are gathering systems that are considered non-utilities in the states in which they are located. Several of our pipelines in Texas are subject to regulation as gas utilities by the TRRC. The states in which we operate have complaint-based regulation of natural gas gathering activities. Natural gas producers, shippers and other affected parties may file complaints with state regulators relating to natural gas gathering access and discrimination with regard to rates and terms of service, or, with respect to our gas utility pipelines in Texas, challenging the rates we charge for utility transportation service. Other state laws and regulations may not directly regulate our business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for gathering, purchase, processing and sale, including state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowables from gas wells. A successful complaint, or new laws or regulatory rulings related to gathering, downstream quality specifications or natural gas utilities, could increase our costs or require us to alter our gathering or utility services charges and our business. To the extent that our intrastate transmission pipeline in Texas transports natural gas in interstate commerce, the rates, terms and conditions of that transportation service are subject to regulation by the FERC pursuant to Section 311 of the NGPA. If our Section 311 rates are successfully challenged, if we are unable to include all of our costs in the cost of service approved in a future rate case, or if FERC changes its regulations or policies or establishes more onerous terms and conditions applicable to Section 311 service, our margins relating to this activity would be adversely affected. We also have transportation contracts with interstate pipelines that are subject to FERC regulation. As a shipper on an interstate pipeline, we are subject to FERC requirements related to use of the interstate capacity. Any failure on our part to comply with the FERC's regulations or an interstate pipeline's tariff could result in the imposition of administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Existing and other new laws and regulations or any administrative or judicial re-interpretations of existing laws, regulations or agreements could impose increased costs and administrative burdens on us, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, laws and regulations affecting producers to whom we provide our services could have adverse effects on us to the extent they affect production in our operating areas. For instance, the U.S. Supreme Court is adjudicating a dispute between the States of Montana and Wyoming over water rights in two rivers that flow through both states. Montana is asserting that Wyoming uses too much water from the Tongue and Powder Rivers pursuant to the Yellowstone River Compact, an agreement that both states entered into in 1950. Montana argues that the Compact applies to groundwater, and that coal bed methane production in Wyoming, which involves the pumping of large quantities of groundwater, is depleting the two rivers in violation of the Compact. Montana has asked the Supreme Court to declare Montana's right to, and to order Wyoming to deliver, the waters of these two rivers to Montana in accord with the Compact. In a 47 Table of Contents February 2010 ruling on Wyoming's motion to dismiss, the special master appointed by the Supreme Court concluded that the Compact protects Montana from at least some forms of groundwater pumping but left the question of the exact circumstances under which groundwater pumping violates the Compact to subsequent proceedings in the case. Any decision by the Supreme Court that effectively limits the amount of groundwater pumped in connection with coal bed methane production in Wyoming may have significant adverse effects on natural gas production in affected areas of Wyoming and, correspondingly, on gathering services that Bighorn and Fort Union provide. If producer drilling activity declines or is delayed due to increased costs or operating restrictions relating to regulation of hydraulic fracturing, we could be adversely affected. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that producers use to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority under the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act over hydraulic fracturing involving the use of diesel and published draft permitting guidance in May 2012 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. In addition, legislation has been introduced before Congress from time to time to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the Safe Drinking Water Act and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, some states, including Wyoming and Texas, have adopted and other states are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. In the event that new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers operate, those customers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements and experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of production or development activities, which could reduce demand for our midstream services. In addition, certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with a first progress report outlining work currently underway by the agency released on December 21, 2012 and a final report drawing conclusions about the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources expected to be available for public comment and peer review by 2014. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the DOI have evaluated or are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act or other regulatory mechanisms, which events could delay or curtail production of natural gas by exploration and production operators, some of which are our customers, and thus reduce demand for our midstream services. A change in the characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies could adversely affect our business. Section 1(b) of the NGA provides that the FERC's rate and service jurisdiction does not extend to facilities used for the production or gathering of natural gas. "Gathering" is not specifically defined by the NGA or its implementing regulations, and there is no bright-line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. Although some guidance is provided by case law, the process of determining whether facilities constitute gathering facilities for purposes of regulation under the NGA is fact-specific and subject to regulatory change. Additionally, our construction, expansion, extension or alteration of pipeline facilities may involve regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, including the possibility that physical changes to our pipeline systems may be deemed to affect their jurisdictional status. 48 Table of Contents The distinction between FERC-regulated interstate natural gas transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of litigation from time to time, as has been the line between intrastate and interstate transportation services. Thus, the classification and regulation of some of our natural gas gathering facilities and our intrastate transportation pipeline may be subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC and/or the courts. Should any of our natural gas gathering or intrastate facilities be deemed to be jurisdictional under the NGA, we could be required to comply with numerous federal requirements for interstate service, including laws and regulations governing the rates charged for interstate transportation services, the terms and conditions of service, certification and construction of new facilities, the extension or abandonment of services and facilities, the maintenance of accounts and records, the initiation and discontinuation of services, the monitoring and posting of real-time system information and many other requirements. Failure to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders could result in substantial penalties and fines. It is also possible that our gathering facilities could be deemed by a relevant state commission or court, or by a change in law or regulation, to constitute intrastate pipelines subject to general state law and regulation of rates and terms and conditions of service. A change in jurisdictional status through litigation or legislation could require significant changes to the rates and terms and conditions of service on the affected pipeline, and could increase the expense of providing service and adversely affect our business. The distinction between FERC-regulated common carriage of NGLs, and the non-jurisdictional intrastate transportation of NGLs, has also been the subject of litigation. To the extent any of our NGL assets are found to be subject to FERC jurisdiction, the FERC's rate-making methodologies could limit our ability to set rates that we might otherwise be able to charge, could delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs and could subject us to potentially burdensome and expensive operational, reporting and other requirements. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, revenues and cash flow. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of "GHGs" could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our midstream services. In response to its published findings that emissions of GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are contributing to the warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climate changes, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA establishing PSD construction and Title V operating permit requirement for large sources of GHG's that are potential major sources of GHG emissions. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring reporting of GHG emissions from specified emission sources in the United States on an annual basis, including, among others, certain onshore and offshore production and onshore oil and natural gas processing, fractioning, transmission, storage and distribution facilities. In addition, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs but, in the absence of federal climate legislation in the United States in recent years, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed to tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap and trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. If Congress undertakes comprehensive tax reform in the coming year, it is possible that such reform may include a carbon tax, which would impose additional direct costs on operations and reduce demand for refined products. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise limits emissions of GHGs from our facilities and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations, could obligate us to comply with new regulatory requirements, including the imposition of a carbon tax, or could adversely affect demand for the natural gas and NGLs we gather and process or fractionate. 49 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline safety and integrity programs and related compliance efforts. We are subject to DOT safety regulations with respect to our natural gas lines and our NGL lines, pursuant to which the DOT has established: •requirements relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of pipeline facilities; •mandatory inspections for all United States crude oil (including NGL) and natural gas transportation pipelines and gathering lines meeting certain operational risk and location requirements; and •additional safety requirements applicable to certain rural onshore hazardous liquid gathering lines and low-stress pipelines located in specified unusually sensitive areas, which address primarily corrosion and third-party damage concerns. Moreover, changes to pipeline safety laws and regulations that result in more stringent or costly safety standards could have a significant adverse effect on us and similarly situated midstream operators. For example, on January 3, 2012, President Obama signed the 2011 Pipeline Safety Act, which act, among other things, directs the Secretary of Transportation to conduct studies to determine the need for additional regulations relating to expanded integrity management requirements, automatic or remote-controlled valve use, excess flow valve use, leak detection system installation and testing to confirm the material strength of pipe operating above 30% of specified minimum yield strength in high consequence areas and to then adopt new rules or standards as determined to be appropriate. These safety enhancement requirements and other provisions of this act could require us to install new or modified safety controls, pursue additional capital projects, or conduct maintenance programs on an accelerated basis, any or all of which could result in our incurring increased operating costs that could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operation of gathering systems, plants and other facilities is subject to stringent and complex federal, regional, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations may restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, including requiring the acquisition of permits or other approvals to conduct regulated activities, restricting the manner in which we dispose of wastes, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination, and requiring capital expenditures to comply with pollution control requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where substances and wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of substances or wastes into the environment. There is inherent risk of environmental costs and liabilities in our business as a result of our handling of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons, because of air emissions and waste water discharges related to our operations, and due to historical industry operations, and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines or processing facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, it is possible that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may be unable to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. 50 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Proposed Merger with Kinder Morgan We and Kinder Morgan may be unable to obtain the regulatory clearances required to complete the merger or, in order to do so, we and Kinder Morgan may be required to comply with material restrictions or satisfy material conditions. Our proposed merger with Kinder Morgan is subject to review by the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission under the Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, and potentially by state regulatory authorities. The closing of the merger is subject to the condition that there is no law, injunction, judgment, or ruling by a governmental authority in effect enjoining, restraining, preventing, or prohibiting the merger contemplated by the merger agreement. We can provide no assurance that all required regulatory clearances will be obtained. If a governmental authority asserts objections to the merger, Kinder Morgan may be required to divest some assets in order to obtain antitrust clearance. There can be no assurance as to the cost, scope or impact of the actions that may be required to obtain antitrust approval. In addition, the merger agreement provides that Kinder Morgan is not required to commit to dispositions of assets in order to obtain regulatory clearance unless they do not exceed specified thresholds. If Kinder Morgan must take such actions, it could be detrimental to the combined organization following the consummation of the merger. Furthermore, these actions could have the effect of delaying or preventing completion of the proposed merger or imposing additional costs on or limiting the revenues of the combined organization following the consummation of the merger. Even if the parties receive early termination of the statutory waiting period under the HSR Act or the waiting period expires, governmental authorities could seek to block or challenge the merger as they deem necessary or desirable in the public interest at any time, including after completion of the transaction. In addition, in some circumstances, a third party could initiate a private action under antitrust laws challenging or seeking to enjoin the transaction, before or after it is completed. Kinder Morgan may not prevail and may incur significant cost in defending or settling any action under the antitrust laws. We may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other employees in light of the merger. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on Copano employees may have an adverse effect on us and the combined organization. This uncertainty may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate personnel until the merger is completed. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the merger, as employees may feel uncertain about their future roles with the combined organization. In addition, we may have to provide additional compensation in order to retain employees. If our employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to become employees of the combined organization, the combined organization's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger could be reduced. Also, if we fail to complete the merger, it may be difficult and expensive to recruit and hire replacements for such employees. Pending the completion of the transaction, our business and operations could be materially adversely affected. Under the terms of our merger agreement with Kinder Morgan, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the transaction, which may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies, including our ability in certain cases to enter into contracts, incur capital expenditures or grow our business. The merger agreement also restricts our ability to solicit, initiate or encourage alternative acquisition proposals with any third party and may deter a potential acquirer from proposing an alternative transaction or may limit our ability to pursue any such proposal. Such limitations could negatively affect our business and operations prior to the completion of the proposed transaction. Furthermore, the process of planning to integrate two businesses and organizations for the post-merger period can divert management attention and resources and could ultimately have an adverse effect on us. 51 Table of Contents In connection with the pending merger, it is possible that some customers, suppliers and other persons with whom we have business relationships may delay or defer certain business decisions or might decide to seek to terminate, change or renegotiate their relationship with us as a result of the transaction, which could negatively affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well as the market price of our common units, regardless of whether the transaction is completed. Under the terms of our merger agreement with Kinder Morgan, we are subject to certain restrictions on the conduct of our business prior to completing the transaction, which may adversely affect our ability to execute certain of our business strategies without first obtaining consent from Kinder Morgan, including our ability in certain cases to enter into contracts, incur capital expenditures or grow our business. We will incur substantial transaction-related costs in connection with the merger. We expect to incur a number of non-recurring transaction-related merger-related costs associated with completing the merger, combining the operations of the two companies, and achieving desired synergies. These fees and costs will be substantial. Non-recurring transaction costs include, but are not limited to, fees paid to legal, financial and accounting advisors, filing fees and printing costs. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of our and Kinder Morgan's businesses. There can be no assurance that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction-related costs over time. Thus, any net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, the long term or at all. Failure to successfully combine the businesses of Copano and Kinder Morgan in the expected time frame may adversely affect the future results of the combined organization, and, consequently, the value of the Kinder Morgan common units that Copano unitholders receive as the merger consideration. The success of the proposed merger will depend, in part, on the ability of Kinder Morgan to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies from combining the businesses of Kinder Morgan and Copano. To realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses must be successfully combined. If the combined organization is not able to achieve these objectives, or is not able to achieve these objectives on a timely basis, the anticipated benefits of the merger may not be realized fully or at all. In addition, the actual integration may result in additional and unforeseen expenses, which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the merger. Failure to complete the merger, or significant delays in completing the merger, could negatively affect the trading price of our common units and our future business and financial results. Completion of the merger is not assured and is subject to risks, including the risks that approval of the merger by our unitholders or by governmental agencies is not obtained or that other closing conditions are not satisfied. If the merger is not completed, or if there are significant delays in completing the merger, it could negatively affect the trading price of our common units and our future business and financial results, and we will be subject to several risks, including the following: •liability for damages to Kinder Morgan under the terms and conditions of the merger agreement; •negative reactions from the financial markets, including declines in the price of our common units due to the fact that current prices may reflect a market assumption that the merger will be completed; •having to pay certain significant costs relating to the merger, including a termination fee of $115 million; and •the attention of our management will have been diverted to the merger rather than our own operations and pursuit of other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us. 52 Table of Contents Purported class action complaints have been filed against Copano, Kinder Morgan, Copano's board of directors, Kinder Morgan GP and Merger Sub, challenging the merger, and an unfavorable judgment or ruling in these lawsuits could prevent or delay the consummation of the proposed merger and result in substantial costs. Five purported class action lawsuits have been filed challenging the merger. Each lawsuit names as defendants Copano, Kinder Morgan, the individual members of Copano's board of directors, Kinder Morgan GP and Merger Sub. Among other remedies, the plaintiffs seek to enjoin the proposed merger. If these lawsuits are not dismissed or otherwise resolved, they could prevent and/or delay completion of the merger and result in substantial costs to us, including any costs associated with the indemnification of directors. Additional lawsuits may be filed in connection with the proposed merger. There can be no assurance that any of the defendants will prevail in the pending litigation or in any future litigation. The defense or settlement of any lawsuit or claim may adversely affect our or the combined organization's business, financial condition or results of operations. The five lawsuits challenging the merger are: •Charles Bruen, et al. v. Copano Energy, L.L.C., et al., United States District Court, Southern District of Texas, Case No. 13-cv-00540 (filed on Feb. 28, 2013). •William Schultes, et al. v. R. Bruce Northcutt, et al., 151st Dist. Court of Harris County, Texas, Case No. 2013-06966 (filed on Feb. 5, 2013). •Irwin Berlin, et al. v. Copano Energy, L.L.C. et al.,, Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, Case No. 8284 (filed Feb. 6, 2013). •Donald E. Welzenbach, et al. v. William L. Thacker, et al., Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware; Case No. 8317-VCN (filed on Feb. 13, 2013). •Charles E. Hudson, et al. v. Copano Energy, L.L.C., et al., Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, Case No. 8337 (filed Feb. 19, 2013). Risks Related to Our Structure Our limited liability company agreement prohibits a unitholder who acquires 15% or more of our common units without the approval of our Board of Directors from engaging in a business combination with us for three years. This provision could discourage a change of control that our unitholders may favor, which could negatively affect the price of our common units. Our limited liability company agreement effectively adopts Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 as it applies to us prevents an interested unitholder, defined as a person who owns 15% or more of our outstanding units, from engaging in business combinations with us for three years following the time such person becomes an interested unitholder, except in limited circumstances. Section 203 broadly defines "business combination" to encompass a wide variety of transactions with or caused by an interested unitholder, including mergers, asset sales and other transactions in which the interested unitholder receives a benefit on other than a pro rata basis with other unitholders. This provision of our limited liability company agreement could have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our Board of Directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for our common units. We may issue additional common units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. Our limited liability company agreement does not limit the number of additional limited liability company interests, including common units and other equity securities that rank senior to common units, that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders, and existing NASDAQ listing rules allow us to issue additional interests without unitholder approval so long as we do not exceed 20% of our 53 Table of Contents common units then outstanding. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •your proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; •the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit will be diminished; and •the market price of our common units may decline. Our preferred units, which generally become convertible into common units beginning in July 2013, are entitled to in-kind payments of quarterly distributions for each quarter through the third quarter of 2013. We may elect to continue to pay preferred distributions in kind for each quarter through the third quarter of 2016. All preferred units that we issue in payment of quarterly preferred units in kind will be convertible into common units on a one-for-one basis. Certain of our investors may sell units in the public market, which could reduce the market price of our outstanding common units. We have agreed to file a registration statement on Form S-3 to cover sales by TPG of all common units issuable upon conversion of our outstanding preferred units and additional preferred units that we issue as in-kind quarterly distributions. If TPG or a successor to its registration rights, or any holder of a significant percentage of our common units, were to dispose of a substantial portion of these common units in the public market, whether in a single transaction or series of transactions, it could adversely affect the market price for our common units. In addition, these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could make it more difficult for us to sell our common units in the future. Our limited liability company agreement provides for a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If, at any time, any person owns more than 90% of our common units then outstanding, such person has the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units then outstanding at a price not less than the then-current market price of our common units. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may therefore not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur tax liability upon a sale of your units. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our unit price. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. An increase in interest rates could also cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments, in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Lower demand for our common units for any reason, including competition from other more attractive investment opportunities, would likely cause the trading price of our common units to decline. If we then issue additional equity at a significantly lower price, material dilution to our existing unitholders could result. 54 Table of Contents Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to material additional amounts of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, taxes paid, if any, would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We are a limited liability company under Delaware law; however, because we are publicly traded, we could be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes if we fail to satisfy a "qualifying income" requirement. Failure to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law may cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other tax matter. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss, deduction or credit recognized by us would flow through you. Because a tax would be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders and would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our federal gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of such a tax on us by any other state will further reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our common units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial, or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly-traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. One such legislative proposal would eliminate the qualifying income exception to the treatment of all publicly traded partnerships as corporations upon which we rely for our treatment as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for certain publicly-traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. It is possible that a change in law could affect us and may, if enacted, be applied retroactively. Any such changes could reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders and negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. 55 Table of Contents If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take and a court may disagree with some or all of those positions. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders. You are required to pay taxes on the share of our income allocated to you even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners in us for federal income tax purposes to whom we allocate taxable income, you are required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from your share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those common units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our units. We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns. 56 Table of Contents We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We generally prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. Nonetheless, we allocate certain deductions for depreciation of capital additions based upon the date the underlying property is placed in service. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. The U.S. Treasury Department has issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which publicly traded partnerships may use a similar monthly simplifying convention. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of units) may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder, and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan should modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing and lending their units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the technical termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have constructively terminated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. While we would continue our existence as a Delaware limited liability company, our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and unitholders receiving two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the tax year in which the termination occurs. 57 Table of Contents As a result of investing in our common units, you may become subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where you do not live. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if you do not live in any of those jurisdictions. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct business and own assets in several states, most of which currently impose a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may conduct business or own assets in other jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is your responsibility to file all required U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 