Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business depends on commodity market and general economic conditions. We generate significant revenues from commissions and clearing fees we earn from executing and clearing customer orders, fees for providing commodity risk management consulting services and interest income we earn on cash balances in our customers’ accounts. These revenue sources are substantially dependent on customer trading volumes, interest rates and related services and activities. The volume of transactions our customers conduct with us, interest rates and demand for our related services and activities are directly affected by domestic and international commodity market and economic conditions that are beyond our control, including: • commodity market conditions, such as price levels and volatility, • concerns about terrorism and war, • the level and volatility of interest rates, • inflation, • availability and cost of funding and capital, • credit capacity or perceived creditworthiness of the futures industry in the marketplace, • legislative and regulatory changes, and • currency values and changes in government monetary policies. Declines in the volume of trading in the markets in which we operate generally result in lower revenue from our most profitable segments, which would adversely affect our profitability. Our revenue depends on trading volume which depends in large part on commodity prices and commodity price volatility. Trading volume is driven largely by the degree of volatility—the magnitude and frequency of fluctuations—in prices of commodities. Higher volatility increases the need to hedge contractual price risk and creates opportunities for arbitrage trading. Energy commodities markets historically, and agricultural commodities markets periodically, have experienced significant price volatility. In addition to price volatility, increases in commodity prices lead to increased trading volume. As prices of commodities have risen, especially energy prices, new participants have entered the markets to address their growing risk-management needs or to take advantage of greater trading opportunities. Sustained periods of stability in the prices of commodities or generally lower prices could result in lower trading volumes and, potentially, lower revenues. Factors that are particularly likely to affect price volatility and price levels of commodities include: • supply and demand of commodities; • weather conditions affecting certain commodities; • national and international economic and political conditions; • perceived stability of commodities and financial markets; • the level and volatility of interest rates and inflation; and • financial strength of market participants. Any one or more of these factors may reduce price volatility or price levels in the markets for commodities trading, which in turn could reduce trading activity in those markets. Moreover, any reduction in trading activity could reduce liquidity which in turn could further discourage existing and potential market participants and thus accelerate any decline in the level of trading activity in these markets. Decreases in short-term interest rates would negatively impact our profitability. The level of prevailing short-term interest rates affects our profitability because a portion of our revenue is derived from interest earned from the investment of funds deposited with us by our customers. Our financial performance generally benefits from rising interest rates. Rising interest rates increase the amount of interest income earned from these customer deposits. If short-term interest rates fall, our revenues derived from interest will decline which would negatively impact our profitability. 11 Short-term interest rates are highly sensitive to factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. In particular, decreases in the federal funds rate by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System usually lead to decreasing interest rates in the U.S., which generally lead to a decrease in short-term interest rates. Our customers are concentrated in the agricultural sector and related industries and we are therefore subject to government policies and regulations affecting those industries. We do a substantial amount of business with companies in the agricultural sector and related industries. Economic forces, including agricultural commodity, energy and financial markets, as well as government policies and regulations affecting the agricultural sector and related industries could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Agricultural production and trade flows are significantly affected by government policies and regulations. Governmental policies affecting the agricultural industry, such as taxes, tariffs, duties, subsidies and import and export restrictions on agricultural commodities and commodity products, can influence industry profitability, the planting of certain crops versus other uses of agricultural resources, the location and size of crop production, whether unprocessed or processed commodity products are traded and the volume and types of imports and exports. Many of our customers and much of our expected growth are in the energy and related renewable fuels industries and our revenues could decline as a result of adverse developments in these industries. Many of our current customers and much of our expected growth are in the energy and related renewable fuels industries. Energy prices and energy price volatility are affected by local, regional and global events and conditions that affect supply and demand for the relevant energy-related commodity. Adverse developments in the energy markets could adversely affect the operations and profitability of our customers in these industries, which could adversely affect demand for our commodity risk management services in this area and our revenues. The renewable fuels industry is a developing industry that involves a high degree of risk. Generally, renewable fuel production is profitable as long as energy prices remain at relatively high levels and feed stocks are readily available at acceptable price and volume levels. In addition, government subsidies of the renewable fuel industry and favorable environmental regulations are critical to the industry’s profitability at this time. The renewable fuels industry is currently in a period of rapid expansion, and there can be no assurance that such expansion will continue or that such expansion will not result in reduced prices and profit margins in the industry. We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties and their failure to meet their financial obligations could adversely affect our business. Each segment of our business is subject to credit risk. Over-the-counter derivative transactions are subject to credit risks, which is the risk that a counterparty will fail to meet its obligations when due. Customers and counterparties that owe us money, securities or other assets may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. As a clearing broker, we act on behalf of our customers for all trades consummated on exchanges. Accordingly, we are responsible for our customers’ obligations with respect to these transactions, which exposes us to significant credit risk. A substantial part of our working capital is at risk if customers default on their obligations to us and their account balances and security deposits are insufficient to meet all of their obligations. Our grain merchandising business, in which we sold our majority ownership during fiscal 2007, is also subject to credit risk for the failure of counterparties to meet their financial obligations. These counterparties may, in some instances, be in international markets, which may complicate collection efforts. Our financial service activities, which primarily relate to financial accommodations to customers used to acquire and carry commodities, expose us to substantial credit risks due to possible defaults or nonperformance of our customers. Although we have procedures for reviewing credit exposures to specific customers and counterparties to address present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee including rapid changes in commodity price levels. Some of our risk management methods depend upon 12 the evaluation of information regarding markets, clients or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not, in all cases, be accurate, complete, up-to-date or properly evaluated. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. We may be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default by our customers and counterparties. We face substantial competition that could negatively impact our revenues and our profitability. The commodity risk management industry and the broader financial services industry are very competitive and we expect competition to continue to intensify in the future. Many of the companies with which we compete are better capitalized than we are and have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Our primary competitors include both large, diversified financial institutions and commodity-oriented businesses, smaller firms that focus on specific products or regional markets and independent FCMs. As a result, we compete with a large number of smaller firms that focus on personalized service, and a smaller number of larger, better capitalized companies that focus less on personalized service but have significant execution capabilities and market presence. Some of our competitors offer a wider range of services, have broader name recognition and have larger customer bases than we do. Some of them may be able to respond more quickly to new or evolving opportunities, technologies and customer requirements than we can, and may be able to undertake more extensive marketing activities. If we are not able to compete successfully in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We have experienced intense price competition in our clearing and execution business in recent years. Some competitors may offer clearing and execution services to customers at lower prices than we are offering, which may force us to reduce our prices or to lose market share and revenue. In addition, we focus on developing and marketing complex strategies to our clients that are specifically designed to address their commodity risk management or merchandising needs, or the needs of their customers. As the market adopts these strategies, competitors may have the ability to replicate our services. As a result, the need for our services in relation to these strategies could be significantly reduced. Until recently we operated as a member-owned cooperative and have a limited operating history as a business corporation. Accordingly, our historical and recent financial and business results may not be representative of what they may be in the future. Prior to 2005, we operated as a member-owned cooperative operating for the benefit of our members and our business strategy was focused on providing services to our members at a reasonable cost. Since 2005, we have operated our business for the long-term benefit of our stockholders and our business strategy is designed to maximize revenue and profitability. We have a limited operating history as a business corporation on which you can evaluate our management decisions, business strategy and financial results. As a result, our historical financial and business results may not be representative of what they may be in the future. We are subject to risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties associated with changing and implementing our business strategy. Future growth could strain our personnel and infrastructure resources. We anticipate a period of significant growth, which we expect to place a strain on our administrative, financial and operational resources. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require us to improve existing, and implement additional, operational, financial and management controls and reporting systems and procedures. We will also be required to identify, hire and train additional risk management consultants as well as administrative staff. We cannot assure you that we will be able to improve or implement such controls, systems and procedures in an efficient and timely manner or that they will be adequate to support our future operations. Furthermore, we may not be able to identify, hire and train sufficient personnel to accommodate our growth. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, maintain our service or if new personnel are unable to achieve performance levels, our business, operating results, prospects and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 13 Difficulties integrating our acquisitions could lower our profit. We plan to pursue select acquisitions in the future. If we are unable to complete acquisitions we have identified, our growth strategy could be impaired. In addition, we may encounter difficulties integrating our acquisitions and in successfully managing the growth we expect from the acquisitions. Furthermore, expansion into new businesses may expose us to additional business risks that are different from those we have traditionally experienced. Because we may actively pursue a number of opportunities simultaneously, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, including difficulties in employing sufficient staff and maintaining operational and management oversight. To the extent we encounter problems in identifying acquisition risks or integrating our acquisitions, our operations could be impaired as a result of business disruptions and lost management time, which could reduce our profit. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to retain our existing customers or attract new customers. The success of our business depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and increase our customer base. Customers in our market are sensitive to, among other things, the costs of using our services, the quality of the services we offer, the speed and reliability of order execution and the breadth of our service offerings and the products and markets to which we offer access. We may not be able to continue to offer the pricing, service, speed and reliability of order execution or the service, product and market breadth that customers desire. In addition, once our commodity risk management consulting customers have become better educated with regard to sources of commodity risk and the tools available to facilitate the management of this risk and we have provided them with recommended hedging strategies, they may no longer continue paying monthly fees for these services. Furthermore, our existing customers, including IRMP customers, generally are not obligated to use our services and can switch providers of clearing and execution services or decrease their trading activity conducted through us at any time. As a result, we may fail to retain existing customers or be unable to attract new customers. Our failure to maintain or attract customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We rely on relationships with introducing brokers for obtaining some of our customers. The failure to maintain these relationships could adversely affect our business. We have relationships with introducing brokers who assist us in establishing new customer relationships and provide marketing and customer service functions for some of our customers. These introducing brokers receive compensation for introducing customers to us. Many of our relationships with introducing brokers are non-exclusive or may be cancelled on relatively short notice. In addition, our introducing brokers have no obligation to provide new customer relationships or minimum levels of transaction volume. Our failure to maintain these relationships with these introducing brokers or the failure of these introducing brokers to establish and maintain customer relationships would result in a loss of revenues, which could adversely affect our business. We are dependent on our management team, and the loss of any key member of our team may prevent us from executing our business strategy effectively. Our future success depends, in large part, upon our management team who possess extensive knowledge and management skills with respect to commodity risk management. The unexpected loss of services of any of our executive officers could adversely affect our ability to manage our business effectively or execute our business strategy. Although these officers have employment contracts with us, they are generally not required to remain with us for a specified period of time. In addition, we do not maintain key-man life insurance policies on any of our executive officers. Competition for risk management consultants could result in our being unable to attract and retain the highly skilled risk management consultants that we need to support our business or we may be required to incur additional expense to do so. We strive to provide high-quality risk management consulting and execution services that allow us to establish and maintain long-term relationships with our clients. Our ability to continue to provide these services, maintain these relationships and expand our business depends, in large part, upon our risk management consultants. As a result, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for the services of consultants is intense, especially for people with extensive experience in the specialized markets in which we participate or may seek to enter. If we are unable to hire highly qualified people, we may not be able to enter new markets or develop new products. If we lose one or more of our risk management consultants in a particular market in which we participate, our revenues may decrease and we may lose market share in that particular market. 14 In addition, recruitment and retention of qualified personnel could require us to pay sign-on or guaranteed bonuses or otherwise increase our employee costs. These additional costs could adversely affect our profitability. We operate in a highly regulated industry and we may face restrictions with respect to the way we conduct certain of our operations. Our businesses, and the commodity brokerage industry generally, are subject to extensive regulation at the federal level. These regulations are designed to protect the interests of the investing public generally rather than our stockholders. Self-regulatory organizations, including the NFA and the CME (our designated self-regulatory organization), require compliance with their extensive rules and regulations. The CFTC and other federal agencies extensively regulate the U.S. futures and commodities industry. Our grain merchandising business is also subject to state regulation of grain dealers and federal regulation by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Food and Drug Administration. Some aspects of our business are subject to extensive regulation, including: • the way we deal with and solicit clients, • capital requirements, • financial and reporting practices, • required record keeping and record retention procedures, • the licensing of our operating subsidiaries and our employees, • the conduct of directors, officers, employees and affiliates, • systems and control requirements, • restrictions on marketing, and • client identification and anti-money laundering requirements. Failure to comply with any of the laws, rules or regulations of any federal, state or self-regulatory authority could result in a fine, injunction, suspension or expulsion from the industry, which could materially and adversely impact us. We and our employees, including our officers, may be subject to censure, fines, suspensions or other sanctions which may have a material and adverse impact on our business. Even if any sanction does not materially affect our financial position or results of operations, our reputation could be harmed. The government agencies that regulate us have broad powers to investigate and enforce compliance and punish noncompliance with their rules, regulations and industry standards of practice. We or our directors, officers and employees may not comply with the rules and regulations of, and may be subject to claims or actions by, these agencies. In addition, because our industry is heavily regulated, regulatory approval may be required prior to expansion of business activities. We may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for any desired expansion. Even if approvals are obtained, they may impose restrictions on our business or we may not be able to continue to comply with the terms of the approvals or applicable regulations. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs or cause the development or continuation of business activities in affected markets to become impractical. Changes in legislation or regulations may affect our ability to conduct our business or reduce our profitability. The legislative and regulatory environment in which we operate has undergone significant change in the past and may undergo significant change again in the future. The federal government, the CFTC, the SEC, the CME, the NFA and other U.S. or foreign governmental authorities continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. These legislative and regulatory initiatives may affect the way in which we conduct our business and may make our business less profitable. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by those entities may also adversely affect our business. 15 We are subject to a risk of legal proceedings, which may result in significant losses to us that we cannot recover. Many aspects of our business subject us to substantial risk of potential liability to customers and to regulatory enforcement proceedings by federal and other regulators. These risks include, among others, potential civil litigation triggered by regulatory investigations, potential liability from disputes over terms of a trade, the claim that a system failure or delay caused monetary losses to a customer, that we entered into an unauthorized transaction or that we provided materially false or misleading statements in connection with a transaction. Dissatisfied clients can make claims against us, including claims for negligence, fraud, unauthorized trading, failure to supervise, breach of fiduciary duty, employee errors, intentional misconduct, unauthorized transactions by associated persons and failures in the processing of transactions. These risks also include potential liability from disputes over the exercise of our rights with respect to customer accounts and collateral. Although our customer agreements generally provide that we may exercise such rights with respect to customer accounts and collateral as we deem reasonably necessary for our protection, our exercise of these rights could lead to claims by customers that we have exercised these rights improperly. Additionally, employee misconduct could subject us to financial losses and regulatory sanctions and could seriously harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions taken to prevent and detect employee misconduct may not always be effective. Misconduct by employees could include engaging in unauthorized transactions or activities, failure to properly supervise other employees, engaging in improper or unauthorized activities on behalf of clients or improperly using confidential information. We cannot assure you that these types of proceedings will not materially and adversely affect us. Employee errors, including mistakes in executing, recording or reporting transactions for clients, could cause us to enter into transactions that clients may disavow and refuse to settle, which could expose us to the risk of material losses until the errors are detected and the transactions are unwound or reversed. If our clients are not able to settle their transactions on a timely basis, the time in which employee errors are detected may be increased and our risk of material loss can be increased. The risk of employee error or miscommunication may be greater for products that are new or have non-standardized terms. Misconduct by employees of our customers in dealing with us can also expose us to claims for financial losses or regulatory proceedings when it is alleged we or our employees knew or should have known that the employee of the customer was not authorized to undertake certain transactions. In addition to the foregoing financial costs and risks associated with potential liability, the defense of litigation includes increased costs associated with attorneys’ fees. The amount of outside attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the defense of litigation could be substantial and might materially and adversely affect our results of operations for any reporting period. Our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective, which could increase the risk that we are subject to regulatory action or litigation or otherwise negatively impact our business. Our ability to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. If we fail to effectively establish and maintain such compliance and reporting systems or fail to attract and retain personnel who are capable of designing and operating such systems, it will increase the likelihood that we will become subject to legal and regulatory infractions, including civil litigation and investigations by regulatory agencies. For us to avoid a number of risks inherent in our business, it is necessary for us to have polices and procedures that identify, monitor and manage our risk exposure. Management of operational, legal and regulatory risk requires, among other things, policies and procedures to record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events. Such policies may not be fully effective. Some of our risk management policies and procedures depend upon evaluation of information regarding markets, customers or other matters that are publicly available or otherwise accessible by us. That information may not in all cases be accurate, complete, 16 up-to-date or properly evaluated. Further, our risk management policies and procedures rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision, which are subject to error and failure. Some of our risk management policies and procedures are based on internally developed controls and observed historical market behavior and also involve reliance on industry standard practices. These policies and procedures may not adequately prevent future losses, particularly as they relate to extreme market movements, which may be significantly greater than comparable historical movements. We may not always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed. If our risk management efforts are ineffective, we could suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. We operate as a principal in the OTC derivatives markets which involves the risks associated with commodity derivative instruments. We offer OTC derivatives to our customers in which we act as a principal counterparty. We endeavor to simultaneously offset the commodity price risk of the instruments by establishing corresponding offsetting positions with commodity counterparties. To the extent that we are unable to simultaneously offset an open position or the offsetting transaction is not fully effective to eliminate the commodity derivative risk, we have market risk exposure on these unmatched transactions. Our exposure varies based on the size of the overall positions, the terms and liquidity of the instruments brokered, and the amount of time the positions remain open. To the extent an unhedged position is not disposed of intra-day, adverse movements in the commodities underlying these positions or a downturn or disruption in the markets for these positions could result in a substantial loss. In addition, any principal gains and losses resulting from these positions could on occasion have a disproportionate effect, positive or negative, on our financial condition and results of operations for any particular reporting period. Transactions involving OTC derivative contracts may be adversely affected by fluctuations in the level, volatility, correlation or relationship between market prices, rates, indices and/or other factors. These types of instruments may also suffer from illiquidity in the market or in a related market. OTC derivative transactions are subject to unique risks. OTC derivative transactions are subject to the risk that, as a result of mismatches or delays in the timing of cash flows due from or to counterparties in OTC derivative transactions or related hedging, trading, collateral or other transactions, we or our counterparty may not have adequate cash available to fund its current obligations. We could incur material losses pursuant to OTC derivative transactions because of inadequacies in or failures of our internal systems and controls for monitoring and quantifying the risk and contractual obligations associated with OTC derivative transactions and related transactions or for detecting human error, systems failure or management failure. OTC derivative transactions may be modified or terminated only by mutual consent of the original parties and subject to agreement on individually negotiated terms. Accordingly it may not be possible to modify, terminate or offset obligations or exposure to the risk associated with a transaction prior to its scheduled termination date. We are subject to regulatory capital requirements and failure to comply with these rules would significantly harm our business. The CFTC and various other self-regulatory organizations have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by our FCM subsidiary. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm to limitations on its activities, including suspension or revocation of its registration by the CFTC and suspension or expulsion by the NFA, various exchanges of which our FCM subsidiary is a member and ultimately may require its liquidation. Failure to comply with the net capital rules could have material and adverse consequences such as limiting our operations, or restricting us from withdrawing capital from our FCM subsidiary. 17 If these net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, operations that require the intensive use of capital would be limited. Also, our ability to withdraw capital from our regulated subsidiaries is subject to restrictions, which in turn could limit our ability to pay dividends, repay debt and redeem or purchase shares of our common stock. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our present levels of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict our future capital needs or our ability to obtain additional financing. We are subject to margin funding requirements on short notice; failure to meet such requirements would significantly harm our business. Our business involves establishment and carrying of substantial open positions for customers on futures exchanges and in the OTC derivatives markets. We are required to post and maintain margin or credit support for these positions. Although we collect margin or other deposits from our customers for these positions, significant adverse price movements can occur which will require us to post margin or other deposits on short notice, whether or not we are able to collect additional margin or credit support from our customers. Although we maintain borrowing facilities for the purpose of funding margin and credit support and have systems to endeavor to collect margin and other deposits from customers on a same-day basis, there can be no assurance that these facilities and systems will be adequate to eliminate the risk of margin calls in the event of severe adverse price movements affecting open positions of our customers. We must obtain and maintain credit facilities to operate; failure to maintain such facilities would require curtailment of our operations and result in losses. We carry significant open futures positions on behalf of our customers in the C&RM and the Clearing and Execution Services segments of our business. These credit facilities are necessary in order to meet immediate margin funding requirements, to cover any abnormal commodity market fluctuations and the margin calls they produce, and to maintain positions required for our own risk management position in futures and OTC markets. If our credit facilities are unavailable or insufficient to support future levels of business activities, we may need to raise additional funds externally, either in the form of debt or equity. If we cannot raise additional funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to develop or enhance our business, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressure or unanticipated requirements. Our international operations involve special challenges that we may not be able to meet, which could adversely affect our financial results. We engage in a significant amount of business with customers in Asia, Brazil, Latin America and Canada, as well as other international markets. Certain additional risks are inherent in doing business in international markets, particularly in a regulated industry. These risks include: • the inability to manage and coordinate the various regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions that are constantly evolving and subject to unexpected change, • tariffs and other trade barriers, • difficulties in recruiting and retaining personnel, and managing international operations, • difficulties of debt collection in foreign jurisdictions, • potentially adverse tax consequences, and • reduced protection for intellectual property rights. Our operations are also subject to the political, legal and economic risks associated with politically unstable and less developed regions of the world, including the risk of war and other international conflicts and actions by governmental authorities, insurgent groups, terrorists and others. Specifically, we conduct business in countries whose currencies may be unstable. Future instability in such currencies or the imposition of governmental or regulatory restrictions on such currencies could impede our foreign exchange business and our ability to collect on collateral held in such currencies. 18 In addition, we are required to comply with the laws and regulations of foreign governmental and regulatory authorities of each country in which we conduct business. These may include laws, rules and regulations, including registration requirements. Our compliance with these laws and regulations may be difficult and time consuming and may require significant expenditures and personnel requirements, and our failure to be in compliance would subject us to legal and regulatory liabilities. We have customers in numerous countries around the world in which we are not registered. As a result, we may become subject to the regulatory requirements of those countries. We may also experience difficulty in managing our international operations because of, among other things, competitive conditions overseas, established domestic markets, language and cultural differences and economic or political instability. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on the success of our international operations or limit our ability to grow our international operations and, consequently, on our business, financial condition and operating results. Although most of our international business is settled in U.S. dollars, our international operations also expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our risk management strategies relating to exchange rates may not prevent us from suffering losses that would adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to manage any of these risks effectively, our business could be adversely affected. We buy and sell agricultural commodities and agricultural commodity products in our business, the demand for which can be affected by weather, disease and other factors beyond our control. Weather conditions, disease and other factors have historically caused volatility in the agricultural commodities industry and consequently in our operating results by causing crop failures or significantly reduced or increased harvests, which can affect the supply and pricing of the agricultural commodities that we buy and sell in our business, reduce the demand for our fertilizer products and negatively affect the creditworthiness of our customers and suppliers. Reduced supply of agricultural commodities due to weather-related factors could adversely affect our profitability in the future. Our grain merchandising activities involve numerous business risks. Our grain merchandising activities depend on our ability to earn a margin on bushels of grain purchased and sold. We can incur losses if the sale price, after taking into account hedge gains and losses, is less than the purchase price, if the purchase price cannot be collected or if there are uncovered losses relating to physical quality or uncovered risk of casualty losses. We attempt to mitigate the losses by appropriate policies and practices, but there can be no assurance that such efforts will be sufficient to avoid losses. Our financial services activities involve substantial operational risk. We are exposed to various kinds of operational risks relating to the underlying commodities that form the basis of our financial services transactions. Losses in and to these commodities, which could be caused by fraud, misappropriation or other uninsured loss, could cause loss to us. Many of our financial services transactions depend on documents of title issued to, or held by, us. If such documents were invalid or not fully enforceable, it could cause a material loss. There are government programs that back grain warehouse receipts, but these could be inadequate to fully reimburse us for the value of grain evidenced by our warehouse receipts in the event of the business failure of the issuer of the receipt. Computer systems failures, capacity constraints and breaches of security could increase our operating costs and cause us to lose clients. We are heavily dependent on the capacity and reliability of the computer and communications systems supporting our operations, whether owned and operated internally or by third parties. We receive and process a large portion of our trade orders through electronic means, such as through public and private communications networks. These computer and communications systems and networks are subject to performance degradation or failure from any number of reasons, including loss of power, acts of war or terrorism, human error, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, customer error or misuse, lack of proper maintenance or monitoring and 19 similar events. Our systems, or those of our third party providers, may fail or operate slowly, causing one or more of the following: • unanticipated disruptions in service to our clients, • slower response times, • delays in our clients’ trade execution, • failed settlement of trades, • decreased client satisfaction with our services, • incomplete, untimely or inaccurate accounting, recording, reporting or processing of trades, • financial losses, • litigation or other client claims, and • regulatory sanctions. The occurrence of degradation or failure of the communications and computer systems on which we rely may lead to financial losses, litigation or arbitration claims filed by or on behalf of our customers and regulatory investigations and sanctions, including by the CFTC, which require that our trade execution and communications systems be able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volumes. Any such degradation or failure could also have a negative effect on our reputation, which in turn could cause us to lose existing customers to our competitors or make it more difficult for us to attract new customers in the future. Further, any financial loss that we suffer as a result of such degradations or failures could be magnified by price movements of contracts involved in transactions impacted by the degradation or failure, and we may be unable to take corrective action to mitigate any losses we suffer. We must keep up with rapid technological changes in order to compete effectively. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing methods, evolving customer demand and uses of our services, frequent product and service introductions employing new methods and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing systems obsolete. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate and adapt to these changes. Any upgrades or expansions may require significant expenditures of funds and may also increase the probability that we will suffer system degradations and failures. We may not have sufficient funds to adequately update and expand our networks, and any upgrade or expansion attempts may not be successful and accepted by the marketplace and our customers. Any failure to adequately update and expand our systems and networks or to adapt our systems to evolving customer demands or emerging industry standards would have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on third-party software licenses. The loss of any of our key licenses could adversely affect our ability to provide our brokerage services. We license software from third parties, some of which is integral to our business. These licenses are generally terminable if we breach our obligations under the licenses or if the licensor gives us notice in advance of the termination. If any of these relationships were terminated, or if any of these third parties were to cease doing business, we may be forced to spend significant time and money to replace the licensed software. These replacements may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. A termination of any of these relationships could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights or may be prevented from using intellectual property necessary for our business. We rely primarily on trade secret, contract, copyright and trademark law to protect our proprietary information and methods. It is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information and methods without authorization or otherwise infringe on our rights. We may also face claims of infringement that could interfere with our ability to use information and methods that are material to our business operations. 20 In the future, we may have to rely on litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in substantial costs and the diversion of resources and the attention of management, any of which could negatively affect our business. Restrictions on our eligibility to borrow may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. A majority of our company’s ownership must be held by cooperatives in order to maintain our eligibility to borrow from CoBank, ACB. As a result of recent offerings, cooperatives that are our stockholders will be able to sell their common stock, which, in the future, may cause us to be ineligible to borrow from CoBank, ACB. It is uncertain whether we will be able to find substitute lines of credit on similar or better terms. We will be exposed to risks relating to the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As of August 31, 2008, we will be subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Sarbanes-Oxley”) and the SEC rules and regulations require an annual management report on our internal controls over financial reporting, including, among other matters, management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and an attestation report by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. There can be no assurance that our management will not conclude that there are material weaknesses in the company’s internal control over financial reporting. If management concludes that there are material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may be subject to investigation and sanctions by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC and our common stock may be subject to delisting by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. Moreover, if we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which may have a material adverse effect on our company. Our compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley may require significant expenses and management resources that would need to be diverted from our other operations and could require a restructuring of our internal controls over financial reporting. Any such expenses, time reallocations or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 