Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, including the financial statements and related notes, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. While these are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important, you should know that they are not the only risks or uncertainties facing us or which may adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks or uncertainties were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently know to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash from operations each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. Under the terms of our limited liability company agreement, we must pay our operations and maintenance expenses and set aside any cash reserve amounts before making a distribution to our unitholders. The amount of cash we can 26 Table of Contents distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of natural gas gathered and transported on our pipelines; • the amount and NGL content of the natural gas we process; • the price of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil; • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; • the level of our operating costs and the impact of inflation on those costs; • the weather in our operating areas; • the level of competition from other midstream energy companies; and • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the level of capital expenditures we make; • the cost of acquisitions, if any; • our debt service requirements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • restrictions on distributions contained in our senior secured revolving credit facility and the indenture governing our 81/8% Senior Notes due 2016 (“Senior Notes”); • our ability to make eligible working capital borrowings under our senior secured revolving credit facility to pay distributions; • prevailing economic conditions; and • the amount of cash reserves established by our Board of Directors for the proper conduct of our business. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and eligible working capital borrowings, and is not solely a function of profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. To the extent that we make acquisitions in the future and our acquisitions do not perform as expected, our future financial performance may be negatively impacted. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete acquisitions in the future or that if we do so, that we will achieve the desired profitability from them. In addition, failure to successfully assimilate future acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Any future acquisitions are likely to involve numerous risks, including: • operating a significantly larger combined organization and adding operations; • difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographic area; • the risk that natural gas reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed as anticipated; • the loss of significant producers or markets or key employees from the acquired businesses; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 27 Table of Contents • the failure to realize expected profitability or growth; • the failure to realize any expected synergies and cost savings; • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; and • coordinating or consolidating corporate and administrative functions. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. If we consummate any future acquisition, our capitalization and results of operation may change significantly, and you may not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating future acquisitions. Our acquisition of ScissorTail could expose us to potential significant liabilities. In connection with our acquisition of ScissorTail, we purchased all of the limited liability company interests of ScissorTail rather than just its assets. As a result, we purchased the liabilities of ScissorTail, including unknown and contingent liabilities. We performed due diligence in connection with our acquisition of ScissorTail and attempted to verify the representations of ScissorTail management, but there may be pending, threatened, contemplated or contingent claims against ScissorTail related to environmental, title, regulatory, litigation or other matters of which we are unaware. Although the former owners of ScissorTail agreed to indemnify us on a limited basis against some of these liabilities, a significant portion of these indemnification obligations expired on August 2, 2006 without any claims having been asserted by us. Accordingly, there is a risk that we could ultimately be liable for unknown obligations of ScissorTail, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Our substantial indebtedness could limit our operating flexibility and impair our ability to fulfill our debt obligations. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, we had: • total indebtedness of $255.0 million, including indebtedness associated with our Senior Notes and our senior secured revolving credit facility; and • availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility of approximately $170.0 million. Subject to the restrictions governing our existing indebtedness and other financial obligations, we may incur significant additional indebtedness and other financial obligations in the future. Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general company purposes or other purposes; • result in higher interest expense in the event of increases in interest rates to the extent that any of our debt is subject to variable rates of interest; • have a material adverse effect on us if we fail to comply with financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements and an event of default occurs as a result of that failure that is not cured or waived; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general company requirements; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to any competitors that have proportionately less debt. 28 Table of Contents If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations and other financial obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain such refinancing or equity capital or sell assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may reduce our operating flexibility. The indenture governing our outstanding Senior Notes contains various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of specified subsidiaries to, among other things: • sell assets; • pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our equity interests or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt, if any; • make investments; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred units; • create or incur certain liens; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • create unrestricted subsidiaries; and • enter into sale and leaseback transactions. Our senior secured revolving credit facility contains similar covenants as well as covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. The restrictive covenants in our indenture and in the senior secured revolving credit facility could limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. We may be unable to comply with these covenants. Any future breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the terms of the indenture or our senior secured revolving credit facility, which could result in acceleration of our debt and other financial obligations. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding or proceed against any collateral. Our future success depends on our ability to continually obtain new sources of natural gas supply, and any decrease in supplies of natural gas could adversely affect our revenues and operating income. Our gathering and transmission pipeline systems are connected to natural gas reserves and wells, for which the production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput levels on our pipeline systems and our processing plants, we must continually obtain new natural gas supplies. We may not be able to obtain additional contracts for natural gas supplies. The primary factors affecting our ability to connect new supplies of natural gas and attract new customers to our gathering and transmission lines include: (i) the level of successful drilling activity near our gathering systems and (ii) our ability to compete for the commitment of such additional volumes to our systems. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as natural gas prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of our operations, the amount of reserves underlying the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, rig availability, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. 29 Table of Contents We face strong competition in acquiring new natural gas supplies. Competitors to our pipeline operations include major interstate and intrastate pipelines, and other natural gas gatherers. Competition for natural gas supplies is primarily based on the location of pipeline facilities, pricing arrangements, reputation, efficiency, flexibility and reliability. Our major competitors for natural gas supplies and markets in our Texas Gulf Coast Pipelines segment include Enterprise Products Partners, Lobo Pipeline Company (an affiliate of ConocoPhillips), KMTP, DCP Midstream, Crosstex Energy, and HPL. Our Texas Gulf Coast Processing segment’s primary competitors are Enterprise Products Partners, ExxonMobil and DCP Midstream. The primary competitors in our Mid-Continent Operations segment include CenterPoint, DCP Midstream, Enogex, Enerfin, Cimmarron and MarkWest. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources than we have. If we are unable to maintain or increase the throughput on our pipeline systems because of decreased drilling activity in the areas in which we operate, decreased production from the wells connected to our systems or an inability to connect new supplies of gas and attract new customers to our gathering and transmission lines, then our business and financial results or our ability to achieve our growth strategy could be materially adversely affected. Please read Item 1 “Business — Mid-Continent Operations Natural Gas Supply” and Item 1 “Business — Texas Gulf Coast Natural Gas Supply” in this Annual Report for more information on our access to natural gas suppliers. If KMTP’s Laredo-to-Katy pipeline becomes unavailable to transport natural gas to or from our Houston Central Processing Plant for any reason, then our cash flow and revenue could be adversely affected. Our ability to contract for natural gas supplies in the Texas Gulf Coast region will often depend on our ability to deliver gas to our Houston Central Processing Plant and downstream markets. If we are unable to deliver natural gas to this processing plant or to downstream markets, then our ability to contract for natural gas supplies could be hindered, and our cash flow and revenue would likely be adversely affected. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 45% of the total natural gas delivered by our Texas Gulf Coast Pipelines segment was delivered to KMTP. We deliver this natural gas to KMTP in order to transport it to our Houston Central Processing Plant, which straddles KMTP’s Laredo-to-Katy pipeline. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 76% of the natural gas volumes processed or conditioned at our Houston Central Processing Plant were delivered to the plant through the KMTP Laredo-to-Katy pipeline. Depending on the supply of residue gas at our processing plant and natural gas market conditions, we may sell natural gas to KMTP or to other shippers that transport natural gas through KMTP’s Laredo-to-Katy pipeline. Additionally, we may use KMTP’s Laredo-to-Katy pipeline to transport natural gas to our pipelines located in the Upper Gulf Coast Region of our Texas Gulf Coast Pipelines segment and to downstream markets. If KMTP’s pipeline were to become unavailable for any reason, the volumes transported to our Houston Central Processing Plant would be reduced substantially, and our cash flows and revenues from our processing business could be adversely affected. In addition, many producers that use our Texas Gulf Coast gathering systems have natural gas containing NGLs that must be conditioned or processed in order to meet downstream market quality specifications. If we were unable to ship such natural gas to our Houston Central Processing Plant for processing or conditioning, and, if required, treating, we would need to arrange for transportation through other pipelines that could provide these services. Alternatively, we might be required to lease smaller conditioning, and possibly treating, facilities in order to deliver natural gas to other pipelines having restrictive natural gas quality specifications. We generally do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves dedicated to our pipeline systems; therefore, volumes of natural gas transported on our pipeline systems in the future could be less than we anticipate, which may cause our revenues and operating income to be less than we expect. We generally do not obtain independent evaluations of natural gas reserves connected to our pipeline systems due to the unwillingness of producers to provide reserve information as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, we do not have estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of the reserves connected to our pipeline systems is less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, then the volumes of natural gas transported on our pipelines in the future could be less than we anticipate. A decline in the volumes of natural gas transported on our pipeline systems may cause our revenues to be less than we expect. 30 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and counterparties, and a general increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers are a major concern in our business. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Any increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could adversely impact our liquidity. Our profitability depends upon prices and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond our control and have been volatile. Our profitability is affected by prevailing NGL and natural gas prices and we are subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. The profitability of our Texas Gulf Coast Processing segment is affected by the relationship between natural gas prices and NGL prices. When natural gas prices are low relative to NGL prices, it is more profitable for us to process the natural gas than to condition it. When natural gas prices are high relative to NGL prices, we have the flexibility to condition natural gas at the Houston Central Processing Plant rather than to fully process it, but the resulting margins are less. Accordingly, if natural gas prices remain high relative to NGL prices for extended periods of time, then our results of operations could be adversely impacted. The margins we realize from purchasing and selling a portion of the natural gas that we deliver through our Texas Gulf Coast Pipelines segment decrease in periods of low natural gas prices because such gross margins are based primarily on a percentage of the index price. For the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 96% of the natural gas purchased by our Texas Gulf Coast Pipelines segment was purchased with a percentage of relevant index pricing component. Accordingly, a decline in the price of natural gas could have an adverse impact on the results of operations from our Texas Gulf Coast Pipelines segment. The profitability of our Mid-Continent Operations segment is affected primarily by the level of NGL and natural gas prices. Because we generally receive a percentage of the sales proceeds of any NGLs extracted from the natural gas we gather in our Mid-Continent Operations segment as well as a percentage of the sales proceeds of the residue gas remaining after the NGL extraction, our Mid-Continent Operations segment’s profitability increases with higher commodity prices and decreases with a fall in commodity prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, during the year ended December 31, 2006, the Houston Ship Channel, or HSC, natural gas index price ranged from a high of $8.68 per MMBtu to a low of $4.00 per MMBtu. A composite of the Oil Price Information Service, or OPIS, Mt. Belvieu monthly average NGL price based upon our average NGL composition during the year ended December 31, 2006 ranged from a high of approximately $1.126 per gallon to a low of approximately $0.865 per gallon. We seek to maintain a position that is substantially balanced between purchases and sales for future delivery obligations. However, we may not be successful in balancing our natural gas purchases and sales. In addition, a producer could fail to deliver contracted volumes or deliver in excess of contracted volumes, or a consumer could take more or less than contracted volumes. Any of these actions could cause an imbalance in our natural gas purchases and sales. If our purchases and sales of natural gas are not balanced, we will face increased exposure to commodity price risks, which could increase the volatility of our operating income. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon many factors beyond our control. These factors include demand for oil, natural gas and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • the availability of imported oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas and NGLs; 31 Table of Contents • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. A change in the characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies or a change in policy by those agencies may result in increased regulation of our assets, which may cause our revenues to decline and operating expenses to increase. Most of our Texas Gulf Coast pipelines are gathering systems that have been deemed non-utilities by the TRRC. Through our acquisition of ScissorTail, we acquired gathering systems in Oklahoma that are not subject to utility regulation by the OCC. Under Texas law, non-utilities in Texas are not subject to general rate regulation by the TRRC. Under Oklahoma law, non-utilities in Oklahoma (such as ScissorTail’s gathering systems) are not subject to general rate regulation by the OCC. Should the status of these non-utility assets change, they would become subject to general rate regulation by the TRRC or OCC, which could adversely affect the rates that we are allowed to charge our customers. Some of our intrastate natural gas transmission pipelines are subject to regulation as a common purchaser and as a gas utility by the TRRC. The TRRC’s jurisdiction over these pipelines extends to both rates and pipeline safety. The rates we charge for transportation services in Texas are deemed just and reasonable under Texas law unless challenged in a complaint. Should a complaint be filed or should regulation become more active, our business could be adversely affected. As a natural gas gatherer and intrastate pipeline company, we are exempt from FERC regulation under the Natural Gas Act of 1938, but FERC regulation still affects our business and the market for our products. FERC’s policies and practices across the range of its natural gas pipeline regulatory activities, including, for example, its policies on open access transportation, ratemaking, capacity release, and market center promotion, indirectly affect intrastate markets. In recent years, FERC has pursued pro-competitive policies in its regulation of interstate natural gas pipelines. However, we cannot assure you that FERC will continue this approach as it considers matters such as pipeline rates and rules and policies that may affect rights of access to natural gas transportation capacity. In addition, the rates, terms and conditions of some of the transportation services we provide on our pipelines are subject to FERC regulation under Section 311 of the Natural Gas Policy Act. Other state and local regulations also affect our business. Our Texas Gulf Coast gathering lines are subject to Texas ratable take and common purchaser statutes. The ScissorTail gathering facilities are subject to common purchaser statutes in Oklahoma. Ratable take statutes generally require gatherers to take, without undue discrimination, natural gas production that may be tendered to the gatherer for handling. Similarly, common purchaser statutes generally require gatherers to purchase without undue discrimination as to source of supply or producer. These statutes restrict our right as an owner of gathering facilities to decide with whom we contract to purchase or transport natural gas. Federal law leaves any economic regulation of natural gas gathering to the states. Texas and Oklahoma have adopted complaint-based regulation of natural gas gathering activities, which allows natural gas producers and shippers to file complaints with state regulators in an effort to resolve grievances relating to natural gas gathering access and rate discrimination. In this regard, in Oklahoma, gas gatherers are prohibited from charging any fee, or requiring any terms and conditions of service or both, for gathering (including gathering of gas purchased by the gatherer) which is unfair, unjust, unreasonable or unduly discriminatory, and upon the filing of a complaint of an aggrieved party, the OCC has the authority to remedy any such fee or terms and conditions of service, or both. However, such authority of the OCC does not extend to any contract while that contract is in effect. Please read Item IA “Business — Regulation.” Compliance with pipeline integrity regulations issued by the TRRC and OCC could result in substantial expenditures for testing, repairs and replacement. The TRRC and OCC regulations require periodic testing of all intrastate pipelines meeting certain size and location requirements. Our costs relating to compliance with the required testing and repairs under the TRRC 32 Table of Contents regulations was $1.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. No costs were incurred relating to the pipeline integrity testing requirements of the OCC for the year ended December 31, 2006. If our pipelines fail to meet the safety standards mandated by the TRRC or OCC regulations, then we may be required to repair or replace sections of such pipelines, the cost of which cannot be estimated at this time. Because we handle natural gas and other petroleum products in our pipeline and processing businesses, we may incur significant costs and liabilities in the future resulting from a failure to comply with new or existing environmental regulations or an accidental release of hazardous substances into the environment. The operation of our gathering systems, plants and other facilities is subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, including restricting the manner in which we dispose of substances, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination, and requiring capital expenditures to comply with control requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where substances and wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances or wastes into the environment. There is inherent risk of the incurrence of environmental costs and liabilities in our business due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions related to our operations, historical industry operations including releases of substances into the environment, and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines or processing facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage, and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, the possibility exists that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. Please read “Business — Environmental Matters.” Expanding our business by constructing new assets will subject us to risks that projects may not be completed on schedule, the costs associated with the projects may exceed our expectations and additional natural gas supplies may not be available following completion of the projects, which could cause our revenues to be less than anticipated. Our operating cash flows from our capital projects may not be immediate. One of the ways we may grow our business is through the construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation systems (including additional compression) and modifications at our existing processing plants. The construction of additions or modifications to our existing gathering and transportation systems and processing and treating facilities, and the construction of new gathering and processing facilities, involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and operational uncertainties beyond our control and require the expenditure of significant amounts of capital. These projects also involve numerous economic uncertainties including the impact of inflation on project costs and the availability of required resources. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Moreover, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, Southern Dome, our unconsolidated affiliate in our Mid-Continent Operations segment, has constructed a processing plant and pipelines to support anticipated future production in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma which were placed in service on April 28, 2006. The cost of the project was born by us and the other member of Southern Dome, with our share of the final construction costs expected to total approximately $14.2 million. The development of production dedicated to the Southern Dome Processing Plant and pipelines may occur over an extended period of time, and we may not receive any material increase in operating cash flow from that project for some time. If we experience unanticipated or extended delays 33 Table of Contents in generating operating cash flow from this or other projects, then we may need to reduce or reprioritize our capital budget to meet our capital requirements. We may also rely on estimates of future production in our decision to construct additions to our gathering and transportation systems, which may prove to be inaccurate because of the numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract enough throughput to achieve our expected investment return. If the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, it may have an adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, if we are unable to obtain new rights-of-way, then we may be unable to fully execute our growth strategy. The construction of additions to our existing gathering and transportation assets may require us to obtain new rights-of-way prior to constructing new pipelines. We may be unable to obtain such rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other attractive expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain new rights-of-way or to renew existing rights-of-way. If the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, then our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, increased rights-of-way costs could impair our ability to grow. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, our operations could be temporarily or permanently impaired, and our liabilities and expenses could be significant. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compression, treating, processing and transportation of natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to pipelines, pipeline blockages and damage to related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from motor vehicles, construction or farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; • operator error; and • fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. In addition, mechanical malfunctions, undetected ruptures in pipelines, faulty measurement or other errors may result in significant costs or lost revenues. Our operations are primarily concentrated in the Texas Gulf Coast region and in central and eastern Oklahoma, and a natural disaster or other hazard affecting any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operations. For example, although we did not suffer significant damage, Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita damaged gathering systems, processing facilities, and NGL fractionators along the Gulf Coast in August and September 2005, respectively, which curtailed or suspended the operations of various energy companies with assets in the region. There can be no assurance that insurance will cover all damages and losses resulting from these types of natural disasters. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. In accordance with typical industry practice, we do not have any property insurance on any of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. Our business interruption insurance covers only certain lost revenues arising from physical damage to our processing plants and certain pipeline facilities. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, our operations could be temporarily or permanently impaired, and our liabilities and expenses could be significant. 34 Table of Contents Due to our limited asset diversification, adverse developments in our gathering, transportation, processing and related businesses would have a significant impact on our results of operations. Substantially all of our revenues are generated from our gathering, dehydration, treating, conditioning, processing and transportation businesses, and as a result, our financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Furthermore, substantially all of our assets are located in Texas and Oklahoma. Due to our limited diversification in asset type and location, an adverse development in one of these businesses or in these areas would have a significantly greater impact on our financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained more diverse assets. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, we may experience materially higher compliance costs. In early 2005, we began a process to annually document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations, which require annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. In this regard, management has dedicated internal resources, engaged outside consultants and adopted a detailed work plan to (i) assess and document the adequacy of our internal control over financial reporting, (ii) take steps to improve control processes, where appropriate, (iii) validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and (iv) implement a continuous review and reporting process for internal control over financial reporting. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit of that assessment have resulted, and are likely to continue to result, in increased expenses. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Any failure to implement required new controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If compliance with policies or procedures deteriorate and we fail to correct any associated issues in the design or operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting or fail to prevent fraud, current and potential holders of our securities could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business. Risks Related to Our Structure Our limited liability company agreement prohibits a unitholder who acquires 15% or more of our common units without the approval of our Board of Directors from engaging in a business combination with us for three years. This provision could discourage a change of control that our unitholders may favor, which could negatively affect the price of our common units. Our limited liability company agreement effectively adopts Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Laws, or the DGCL. Section 203 of the DGCL as it applies to us prevents an interested unitholder, defined as a person who owns 15% or more of our outstanding units, from engaging in business combinations with us for three years following the time such person becomes an interested unitholder. Section 203 broadly defines “business combination” to encompass a wide variety of transactions with or caused by an interested unitholder, including mergers, asset sales and other transactions in which the interested unitholder receives a benefit on other than a pro rata basis with other unitholders. This provision of our limited liability company agreement could have an anti-takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our Board of Directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for our common units. 35 Table of Contents Our cap on certain general and administrative expenses expires on December 31, 2007. Once the cap expires, our pre-IPO investors will no longer be required to reimburse us for certain amounts in excess of the cap, which could materially reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Pursuant to our limited liability company agreement, for three years beginning on January 1, 2005, our pre-IPO investors agreed to reimburse us for our general and administrative expenses in excess of the following levels (subject to certain limitations): Year General and Administrative Expense Limitation 1 $ 1.50 million per quarter 2 $ 1.65 million per quarter 3 $ 1.80 million per quarter During this three-year period, the limitation on general and administrative expenses for any quarter will be increased by 10% of the amount by which EBITDA for that quarter exceeds $5.4 million. This limitation, or cap, on general and administrative expenses excludes non-cash expenses as well as expenses we may incur in connection with potential acquisitions and capital improvements. Once the cap expires, our pre-IPO investors will no longer be required to reimburse us for certain amounts in excess of the cap. As a result, all of our general and administrative expenses will be paid by us, which could materially reduce the cash available for distributions to our unitholders. For a detailed discussion of our cap on general and administrative expenses, please read Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation — How We Evaluate Our Operations — General and Administrative Expenses.” Distributions to our pre-IPO investors may be insufficient to allow them to reimburse us for all of our general and administrative expenses in excess of the cap, which could materially reduce the cash available for distributions to our unitholders. Our pre-IPO investors have agreed to reimburse us on a quarterly basis for our general and administrative expenses in excess of stated levels for a period of three years beginning on January 1, 2005, subject to certain limitations. Pursuant to our limited liability company agreement, these reimbursement obligations are currently limited solely to the amount of distributions attributable to the 5,557,378 common and subordinated units owned by our pre-IPO investors immediately prior to our IPO. As a result of the conversion of our subordinated units to common units effective February 14, 2007, these quarterly obligations will not exceed the amount of distributions we pay on 5,557,378 common units for the quarter for which the obligations are incurred. Based on our current quarterly distribution rate of $0.80 per unit, these distributions would total, in the aggregate, $4.4 million quarterly and $17.8 million annually. If the distributions attributable to these common units are insufficient to reimburse us for all of the excess general and administrative expense, then amounts not reimbursed will be paid by us, which could have a material adverse effect on the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We may issue additional common units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. We may issue an unlimited number of limited liability company interests of any type, including common units, without the approval of our unitholders. Our limited liability company agreement does not give the unitholders the right to approve our issuance at any time of equity securities ranking junior to the common units. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • your proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit will be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. 36 Table of Contents Our limited liability company agreement provides for a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If, at any time, any person owns more than 90% of the common units then outstanding, such person has the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units then outstanding at a price not less than the then-current market price of the common units. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may therefore not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur tax liability upon a sale of your units. Certain of our investors may sell units in the public market, which could reduce the market price of our outstanding common units. Pursuant to our limited liability company agreement and the Stakeholder’s Agreement dated July 30, 2004 among us and our pre-IPO investors, we agreed to register for sale units received by affiliates of our management, Credit Suisse and EnCap Investments in connection with our IPO, including 2,038,252 common units received upon the closing of the IPO and 3,519,126 common units to be issued upon the conversion of our subordinated units. Effective February 14, 2007, our 3,519,126 subordinated units converted to common units on a one-for-one basis as a result of the satisfaction of the financial tests required for conversion of the subordinated units into common units, as set forth in our limited liability company agreement. We also agreed to register (i) 6,203,216 common units issued to private investors in connection with our acquisition of ScissorTail and (ii) 1,418,440 common units issued to private investors in December 2005 and January 2006. Pursuant to these obligations, we registered an aggregate of 7,260,908 of these common units under a registration statement on Form S-3, which was declared effective by the SEC on January 26, 2006. Additionally, we have registered an additional 1,418,440 common units under a registration statement on Form S-3, which was declared effective by the SEC on April 28, 2006. Simultaneously with the filing of this Annual Report with the SEC, we have registered under a registration statement on Form S-3 the 3,519,126 common units that were issued on February 14, 2007 upon the conversion of the subordinated units. If investors holding these units were to dispose of a substantial portion of their units in the public market, it could temporarily reduce the market price of our outstanding common units. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for tax purposes or we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss or deduction would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders and therefore would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Current law or our business may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. For example, we will be subject to a new entity level tax on the portion of our income that is generated in Texas beginning in our tax year ending December 31, 2007. Specifically, the Texas margin tax will be imposed at a maximum effective rate of 37 Table of Contents 0.7% of our federal gross income apportioned to Texas. Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas, or any other state, will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our limited liability company agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may disagree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. A unitholder will be required to pay taxes on the share of our income allocated to you even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income, you will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, regardless of the amount of any distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our units. 38 Table of Contents We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units and for certain other reasons, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the technical termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. While we would continue our existence as a Delaware limited liability company, our technical termination would, among other things result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. As a result of investing in our common units, you may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where you do not live. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently do business and own assets in Texas and Oklahoma. Although Texas does not currently impose a personal income tax, Oklahoma does and as we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may do business or own assets in other jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns that may be required of such unitholder. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in the common units. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 