Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business and Investments Economic downturns and the volatility of oil and natural gas prices could impair our portfolio companies’ operations and ability to satisfy obligations to their respective lenders, including us, which could negatively impact our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. The conditions and overall strength of the national, regional and international economies, including interest rate fluctuations, changes in capital markets and changes in the prices of their primary commodities and products will generally affect our portfolio companies. These factors could adversely impact the results of operations of our portfolio companies. Our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic downturns and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets are likely to increase and the value of our portfolio is likely to decrease during these periods. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic downturns could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and decreases in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in decisions by lenders not to extend credit to us. Additionally, oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and a decline in oil and natural gas prices could significantly affect the business, financial condition and results of operations of our portfolio companies and their ability to meet financial commitments. These events could prevent us from making additional investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, termination of its loans and foreclosure on the assets securing such loans, which could trigger cross-defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt securities that we hold. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might recharacterize our debt holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to that of other creditors. This could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. Capital markets have recently been in a period of disruption and instability. These market conditions have materially and adversely affected debt and equity capital markets in the United States, which has had, and may in the future have, a negative impact on our business and operations. Beginning in 2007, the U.S. capital markets entered into a period of disruption as evidenced by a lack of liquidity in the debt capital markets, significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk in the broadly syndicated credit market and the failure of major financial institutions. Despite actions of the U.S. federal government, these events contributed to worsening general economic conditions that materially and adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and financial services firms in particular. While these conditions have improved, there can be no assurance that they will not worsen in the future. If these adverse market conditions return, we and other companies in the financial services sector may have to access, if available, alternative markets for debt and equity capital in order to grow. Equity capital may be difficult to raise because, subject to some limited exceptions, as a BDC, we are generally not able to issue additional shares of our common stock at a price less than net asset value without first obtaining approval for such issuance from our stockholders and our independent directors. In addition, our ability to incur indebtedness (including by issuing preferred stock) is limited by applicable regulations such that our asset coverage, as defined in the Investment Company Act, must equal at least 200% immediately after each time we incur indebtedness. The debt capital that will be available, if at all, may be at a higher cost and on less favorable terms and conditions in the future. Any inability to raise capital could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, recent market conditions have made, and may in the future make, it difficult to extend the maturity of or refinance our existing indebtedness and any failure to do 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS so could have a material adverse effect on our business. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if required. As a result, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have recorded our investments. Capital markets volatility also affects our investment valuations. While most of our investments are not publicly traded, applicable accounting standards require us to assume as part of our valuation process that our investments are sold in a principal market to market participants (even if we plan on holding an investment through its maturity). As a result, volatility in the capital markets can adversely affect our valuations. Given the recent extreme volatility and dislocation in the capital markets, many BDCs have faced, and may in the future face, a challenging environment in which to raise capital. As a result of the recent significant changes in the capital markets affecting our ability to raise capital, the pace of our investment activity has slowed. In addition, significant changes in the capital markets, including the recent extreme volatility and disruption, has had, and may in the future have, a negative effect on the valuations of our investments and on the potential for liquidity events involving our investments. An inability to raise capital, and any required sale of our investments for liquidity purposes, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Economic recessions or downturns could impair our portfolio companies and harm our operating results. The U.S. and foreign financial markets have been experiencing a high level of volatility, disruption and distress, which was exacerbated by the failure of several major financial institutions in late 2008. Despite actions of the United States federal government and foreign governments, these events contributed to worsening general economic conditions that materially and adversely impacted the broader financial and credit markets and reduced the availability of debt and equity capital for the market as a whole and financial services firms in particular. While these conditions appear to be improving, they could continue for a prolonged period of time or worsen in the future both in the U.S. and globally. Many of our portfolio companies will generally be affected by the conditions and overall strength of the national, regional and local economies, including interest rate fluctuations, changes in the capital markets and changes in the prices of their primary commodities and products and, in turn, may be unable to satisfy their financial obligations (including their loans payable to us) over the coming months. Many of our portfolio companies may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to repay our loans during these periods. Therefore, our non-performing assets may increase and the value of our portfolio may decrease during these periods if we are required to write down the values of our investments. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing investments and harm our operating results. A portfolio company’s failure to satisfy financial or operating covenants imposed by us or other lenders could lead to defaults and, potentially, acceleration of the time when the loans are due and foreclosure on its secured assets, which could trigger cross defaults under other agreements and jeopardize our portfolio company’s ability to meet its obligations under the debt that we hold and the value of any equity securities we own. We may incur expenses to the extent necessary to seek recovery upon default or to negotiate new terms, which may include the waiver of certain financial covenants, with a defaulting portfolio company. In addition, if one of our portfolio companies were to go bankrupt, even though we may have structured our interest as senior debt or preferred equity, depending on the facts and circumstances, including the extent to which we actually provided managerial assistance to that portfolio company, a bankruptcy court might re-characterize our debt or equity holding and subordinate all or a portion of our claim to those of other creditors. High oil and natural gas prices may increase the availability of alternative sources of capital and reduce demand for our targeted investments. During periods of higher oil and natural gas prices, energy companies may have less financial need for borrowing than in a lower commodity price environment. At higher commodity price levels, borrowers may use the additional cash flow to reduce outstanding debt under senior secured facilities, which typically makes 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS future borrowing capacity available to such borrowers. In addition, to the extent senior lenders base borrowing capacity on reserve value calculations, higher commodity prices typically increase reserve values, thereby creating additional borrowing capacity. Because interest rates under senior secured facilities will generally be lower than the interest rates of our targeted investments, energy companies may have the ability to borrow additional amounts under their senior debt facilities and this ability may reduce the demand for our targeted investments. As a result, high commodity prices may have the effect of reducing the number of energy companies seeking financing similar to our targeted investments or causing us to achieve lower total returns on our targeted investments. Our ability to grow will depend on our ability to raise capital. Periodically, we will need to access the capital markets to raise cash to fund new investments. Unfavorable economic conditions could increase our funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. An inability to access the capital markets successfully could limit our ability to grow our business and fully execute our business strategy and could decrease our earnings, if any. With certain limited exceptions, we are only allowed to borrow amounts or issue debt securities or preferred stock such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after such borrowing, which, in certain circumstances, may restrict our ability to borrow or issue debt securities or preferred stock. The amount of leverage that we employ will depend on our investment adviser’s and our Board of Directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing or issuance of debt securities or preferred stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current credit facility or obtain another line of credit at all or on terms acceptable to us. In addition to issuing securities to raise capital as described above, we may in the future seek to securitize our loans to generate cash for funding new investments. To securitize loans, we may create a wholly owned subsidiary and contribute a pool of loans to the subsidiary. This could include the sale of interests in the subsidiary on a non-recourse basis (except for customary repurchase obligations for breach of representations and warranties) to purchasers whom we would expect to be willing to accept a lower interest rate to invest in investment grade loan pools, and we would expect that we would retain a subordinated interest in the assets and participate (most likely on a first loss basis) in losses related to the securitized assets to the extent of that interest. However, we will base the exact structure and provisions of any securitization upon then-current market conditions and may vary from the description in this prospectus. An inability to securitize our loan portfolio successfully could limit our ability to grow our business, fully execute our business strategy and decrease our earnings, if any. Moreover, the successful securitization of our loan portfolio might expose us to losses, as the residual loans in which we do not sell interests will tend to be those that are riskier and more apt to generate losses. The 1940 Act may also impose restrictions on the structure of any securitization. We have no present plans to securitize any of our loans, but believe the availability of this option will provide us with increased flexibility in the future to raise additional capital. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which we, raise additional capital. We may issue debt securities or preferred stock, which we refer to collectively as “senior securities,” and/or borrow money from banks or other financial institutions, up to the maximum amount permitted by the 1940 Act. The provisions of the 1940 Act permit us, as a BDC, to incur indebtedness or issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each such incurrence or issuance. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test, which may prohibit us from paying dividends and could prevent us from maintaining our status as a RIC or may prohibit us from repurchasing shares of our common stock. If we cannot satisfy this test, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2010, given our total assets of $292 million and total debt of $50 million, our asset coverage for senior securities was 584%. We are not generally able to issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. We may, however, sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at a price below the current net asset value per share of the common stock if our board of directors determines that such sale is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders, and, in certain instances, our 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS stockholders approve such sale. Any such sale would be dilutive to existing stockholders. In any such case, the price at which we issue or sell our securities may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our board of directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any commission or discount). If our common stock trades at a discount to net asset value, this restriction could adversely affect our ability to raise capital. We operate in a highly competitive market for investment opportunities. A large number of entities compete with us to make the types of investments that we make in energy companies. We compete with public and private funds, commercial and investment banks, commercial financing companies, and, to the extent they provide an alternative form of financing, private equity funds. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. For example, some competitors may have a lower cost of funds and access to funding sources that are not available to us. In addition, some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and establish more relationships than us. Furthermore, many of our competitors are not subject to the regulatory restrictions that the 1940 Act imposes on us as a business development company. The competitive pressures that we face may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, because of this competition, we may not be able to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities from time to time, and we may not be able to identify and make investments that are consistent with our investment objectives. We do not seek to compete solely based on the interest rates we offer to prospective portfolio companies. However, some of our competitors may make loans with interest rates comparable to or lower than the rates we offer. We may lose investment opportunities if we do not match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structures. If we match our competitors’ pricing, terms and structures, we may experience decreased net interest income or capital gains and increased risk of credit loss, and the value of our shares or the amount of dividends paid may decline. Investing in privately held companies may be riskier than investing in publicly traded companies due to the lack of available public information. We invest primarily in privately held companies, which may be subject to higher risk than investments in publicly traded companies. Generally, little public information exists about these companies, and we are required to rely on the ability of our management team to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential risks and returns involved in investing in these companies. If we are unable to uncover all material information about these companies, we may not make a fully informed investment decision, and we may lose some or all of the money we invest in these companies. These factors could subject us to greater risk than investments in publicly traded companies and negatively affect our investment returns, which could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. Many of our portfolio investments are not publicly traded and, as a result, there is uncertainty as to the value of our portfolio investments. Large percentages of our portfolio investments (other than our short-term cash investments) are, and will continue to be, in the form of securities that are not publicly traded. The fair value of securities and other investments that are not publicly traded may not be readily determinable. We value these securities quarterly at fair value in accordance with procedures as determined in good faith by our Board of Directors. However, we may be required on a more frequent basis to value our securities to reflect significant events affecting the value of our securities. The types of factors we may consider in fair value pricing of an investment include the nature and realizable value of any collateral, the portfolio company’s earnings and ability to make payments, the markets in which the portfolio company does business, comparison to publicly traded companies, discounted cash flow and other relevant factors. Because such valuations, and particularly valuations of private securities and private companies, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate during short periods of time and may be based on estimates, our determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have been used if a ready market for these securities existed. As a result, we may not be able to dispose of our holdings at a price equal to or greater than our determined fair value. Our net asset 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS value could be adversely affected if our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments are materially higher than the values that we ultimately realize upon the disposal of such securities. In addition, the subjective nature of such valuations may cause the shares of our common stock to trade at a discount to our net asset value. Our equity investments may lose all or part of their value, causing us to lose all or part of our investment in those companies. The equity interests in which we invest may not appreciate or may decline in value. Accordingly, we may not be able to realize gains from our equity interests, and any gains that we do realize on the disposition of any equity interests may not be sufficient to offset any other losses we experience. As a result, our equity interests may decline in value, causing us to lose all or part of our equity investment in those companies, and may negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. The energy industry is subject to many risks. We concentrate our investments in the energy industry. The revenues, income (or losses) and valuations of energy companies can fluctuate suddenly and dramatically due to any one or more of the following factors: Commodity Pricing Risk. In general, commodity prices directly affect energy companies, such as the market prices of crude oil, natural gas, coal and wholesale electricity, especially for those who own the underlying energy commodity. In addition, the volatility of commodity prices can affect other energy companies due to the impact of prices on the volume of commodities produced, transported, processed, stored or distributed and on the cost of fuel for power generation companies. The volatility of commodity prices can also affect energy companies’ ability to access the capital markets in light of market perception that their performance may be directly tied to commodity prices. Historically, energy commodity prices have been cyclical and exhibited significant volatility. Some of our portfolio companies may not engage in hedging transactions to minimize their exposure to commodity price risk. Those companies that engage in such hedging transactions remain subject to market risks, including market liquidity and counterparty creditworthiness. Regulatory Risk. Changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect the profitability of energy companies. Federal, state and local governments heavily regulate the businesses of energy companies in diverse matters, such as the way in which energy assets are constructed, maintained and operated and the prices energy companies may charge for their products and services. Such regulation can change over time in scope and intensity. For example, a regulatory agency may declare a particular by-product of an energy process as hazardous, which can unexpectedly increase production costs. Moreover, many state and federal environmental laws provide for civil penalties as well as regulatory remediation, thus adding to the potential liability an energy company may face. Production Risk. The volume of crude oil, natural gas or other energy commodities available for producing, transporting, processing, storing, distributing or generating power may materially impact the profitability of energy companies. A significant decrease in the production of natural gas, crude oil, coal or other energy commodities, due to the decline of production from existing facilities, import supply disruption, depressed commodity prices, political events, OPEC actions or otherwise, could reduce revenue and operating income or increase operating costs of energy companies and, therefore, their ability to pay debt or dividends. Demand Risk. A sustained decline in demand for crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products and electricity could materially affect revenues and cash flows of energy companies. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include a recession or other adverse economic conditions, increases in the market price of the underlying commodity, higher taxes or other regulatory actions that increase costs, or shifts in consumer demand for such products. Depletion and Exploration Risk. A portion of an energy company’s assets may consist of natural gas, crude oil and/or coal reserves and other commodities that naturally deplete over time. Depletion could have a material adverse impact on such company’s ability to maintain its revenue. Further, estimates of energy reserves may not be accurate and, even if accurate, reserves may not be produced profitably. In addition, exploration of energy resources, especially of oil and natural gas, is inherently risky and requires large amounts of capital. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Weather Risk. Unseasonable extreme weather patterns could result in significant volatility in demand for energy and power or may directly affect the operations of individual companies. This weather-related risk may create fluctuations in earnings of energy companies. Operational Risk. Energy companies are subject to various operational risks, such as failed drilling or well development, unscheduled outages, underestimated cost projections, unanticipated operation and maintenance expenses, failure to obtain the necessary permits to operate and failure of third-party contractors, such as energy producers and shippers, to perform their contractual obligations. In addition, energy companies employ a variety of means of increasing cash flow, including increasing utilization of existing facilities, expanding operations through new construction, expanding operations through acquisitions, or securing additional long-term contracts. Thus, some energy companies may be subject to construction risk, acquisition risk or other risks arising from their specific business strategies. Competition Risk. The energy companies in which we may invest will face substantial competition in acquiring properties, enhancing and developing their assets, marketing their commodities, securing trained personnel and operating their properties. Many of their competitors, including major oil companies, natural gas utilities, independent power producers and other private independent energy companies, may have financial and other resources that substantially exceed their resources. The businesses in which we may invest face greater competition in the production, marketing and selling of power and energy products brought about in part from the deregulation of the energy markets. Valuation Risk. We make targeted investments based upon valuations of our portfolio companies’ assets that are subject to uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves of oil, natural gas and coal and in projecting future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures, which are dependent upon many factors beyond our control. The estimates rely on various assumptions, including, for example, commodity prices, operating expenses, capital expenditures and the availability of funds, and are therefore inherently imprecise indications of future net cash flows. Actual future production, cash flows, taxes, operating expenses, development expenditures and quantities of recoverable reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the value of our investments. Financing Risk. Some of the portfolio companies in which we invest may rely on capital markets to raise money to pay their existing obligations. Any of the risk factors associated with energy companies described above, general economic and market conditions or other factors may affect their ability to access the capital markets on attractive terms. This may in turn affect their ability to satisfy their obligations with us. Climate Change. There may be evidence of global climate change. Climate change creates physical and financial risk and some of our portfolio companies may be adversely affected by climate change. For example, the needs of customers of energy companies vary with weather conditions, primarily temperature and humidity. To the extent climate changes affect weather conditions, energy use could increase or decrease depending on the duration and magnitude of any changes. Increased energy use due to weather changes may require additional investments by our portfolio companies in more pipelines and other infrastructure to serve increased demand. A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our portfolio companies’ financial condition through decreased revenues. Extreme weather conditions in general require more system backup, adding to costs, and can contribute to increased system stresses, including service interruptions. Potential lawsuits against or taxes or other regulatory costs imposed on greenhouse gas emitters could also affect energy companies, based on links drawn between greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. When we are a debt or minority equity investor in a portfolio company, we generally will not be in a position to control the entity, and management of the portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. We generally make debt and minority equity investments, and are therefore subject to the risks that a portfolio company may make business decisions with which we disagree. Further, the stockholders and management of such company may take risks or otherwise act in ways that do not serve our interests. Due to the lack of liquidity in the markets for our investments in privately held companies, we may not be able to dispose of our interests in our portfolio companies as readily as we would like. As a result, a portfolio company may make decisions that could decrease the value of our portfolio holdings. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS The lack of liquidity in our investments may adversely affect our business. We generally make investments in private companies. Substantially all of these investments will be subject to legal and other restrictions on resale or otherwise are less liquid than publicly traded securities. The illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need arises. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the value at which we have previously recorded our investments. In addition, we may face other restrictions on our ability to liquidate an investment in a portfolio company to the extent that we have material non-public information regarding such portfolio company. We may experience fluctuations in our quarterly results. We could experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to a number of factors, including changes in the fair values of our portfolio investments, the interest rate payable on the debt securities we acquire, the default rate on such securities, the level of our expenses, variations in, and the timing of, the recognition of realized and unrealized gains or losses, the degree to which we encounter competition in our markets and general economic conditions. Because of these factors, you should not rely on results for any period as being indicative of performance in future periods. We may choose to invest a portion of our portfolio in investments that may be considered highly speculative, which could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause a loss of part of your investment. Our investments are generally in the form of debt instruments, including senior and subordinated loans, combined in one facility, sometimes with an equity component, and subordinated loans, sometimes with equity components. We may also invest in preferred stock and other equity securities. We would likely make these types of investments in energy companies that possess assets that do not produce sufficient current cash flow at inception of our investment to amortize the principal throughout the life of a loan. For example, we could make such an investment in a company that owns proved non-producing oil and natural gas reserves and requires capital to finance development drilling to initiate the production of the reserves and generate cash flow. Some of these investments may be of a highly speculative nature and may lose some or all of their value, which could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of part of your investment. We fund a portion of our investments with borrowed money, which magnifies the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and may increase the risk of investing in us. Borrowings, also known as leverage, magnify the potential for gain or loss on amounts invested and, therefore, increase the risks associated with investing in our securities. We currently borrow under our Investment Facility and in the future may borrow or issue senior debt securities. Our current and future debt securities are and may be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. We, and indirectly our stockholders, bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock. Our lenders have fixed dollar claims on our consolidated assets that are superior to the claims of our common stockholders or any preferred stockholders. If the value of our consolidated assets increases, then leveraging would cause the net asset value to increase more sharply than it would have had we not leveraged. Conversely, if the value of our consolidated assets decreases, leveraging would cause net asset value to decline more sharply than it otherwise would have had we not leveraged. Similarly, any increase in our consolidated income in excess of consolidated interest payable on the borrowed funds would cause our net income to increase more than it would without the leverage, while any decrease in our consolidated income would cause net income to decline more sharply than it would have had we not borrowed. Such a decline could negatively affect our ability to make common stock dividend payments. Leverage is generally considered a speculative investment technique. We intend to continue borrowing under the Investment Facility in the future, and we may increase the size of the Investment Facility or issue debt securities or other evidence of indebtedness. Our ability to service our debt depends largely on our financial performance and is subject to prevailing economic conditions and competitive pressures. The amount of leverage that we employ 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS at any particular time will depend on our manager’s and our board of directors’ assessment of market and other factors at the time of any proposed borrowing. Changes in interest rates may expose us to additional risks. General interest rate fluctuations may have a negative impact on our investments and investment opportunities and, accordingly, may have a material adverse effect on investment objectives and our rate of return on invested capital. Because we may borrow money to make investments, our net investment income depends upon the difference between the rate at which we borrow funds and the rate at which we invest these funds. As a result, there can be no assurance that a significant change in market interest rates will not have a material adverse effect on our net investment income. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 36% of the investments at fair value in our portfolio were at fixed rates, while approximately 64% were at variable rates. Trading prices for debt that pays a fixed rate of return tend to fall as interest rates rise. Trading prices tend to fluctuate more for fixed-rate securities that have longer maturities. Although we have no policy governing the maturities of our investments, under current market conditions we expect that we will invest in a portfolio of debt generally having maturities of three to seven years, but may have longer maturities. This means that, to the extent we fund longer term fixed rate investments with shorter term floating rate borrowings, we will be subject to greater risk (other things being equal) than a fund invested solely in shorter term securities. A decline in the prices of the debt we own could adversely affect the trading price of our shares. Failure to extend our Investment Facility, the revolving period of which is currently scheduled to expire on August 31, 2012, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position and our ability to pay expenses and make distributions. The revolving period for our Investment Facility with a syndicate of lenders is currently scheduled to expire on August 31, 2012. If the participant banks do not renew or extend the Investment Facility by August 31, 2012, we will not be able to make further borrowings under the facility after such date and the outstanding principal balance on that date will be due and payable. If we are unable to extend our facility or find a new source of borrowing on acceptable terms, we will be required to pay down the amounts outstanding under the facility through one or more of the following: (1) principal collections on our securities pledged under the facility, (2) at our option, interest collections on our securities pledged under the facility and cash collections on our securities not pledged under the facility, or (3) possible liquidation of some or all of our loans and other assets, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position and may force us to decrease or stop paying certain expenses and making distributions until the facility is repaid. In addition, our stock price could decline significantly, we would be restricted in our ability to acquire new investments and, in connection with our year-end audit, our independent registered accounting firm could raise an issue as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We may not have sufficient funds to make follow-on investments. Our decision not to make a follow-on investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment or may result in a missed opportunity for us. After our initial investment in a portfolio company, the company may request additional funds or we may have the opportunity to increase our investment in a successful situation, for example, the exercise of a warrant to purchase common stock. There is no assurance that we will make, or will have sufficient funds to make, follow-on investments. Any decision we make not to make a follow-on investment or any inability on our part to make such an investment may have a negative impact on a portfolio company in need of such an investment or may result in a missed opportunity for us to increase our participation in a successful operation and may dilute our equity interest or otherwise reduce the expected yield on our investment. We may in the future determine to fund a portion of our investments with preferred stock, which would magnify the potential for gain or loss and the risks of investing in us in the same way as our borrowings. Because preferred stock is another form of leverage and the dividends on any preferred stock we issue must be cumulative, preferred stock has the same risks to our common stockholders as borrowings. Payment of such dividends and repayment of the liquidation preference of such preferred stock must take preference 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS over any dividends or other payments to our common stockholders. Preferred stockholders are not subject to any of our expenses or losses and are not entitled to participate in any income or appreciation in excess of their stated preference. Our Board of Directors may change most of our operating policies and strategies without prior notice or stockholder approval, the effects of which may be adverse. Our Board of Directors has the authority to modify or waive most of our current operating policies and our strategies without prior notice and without stockholder approval. We cannot predict the effect any changes to our current operating policies and strategies would have on our business, operating results and value of our stock. However, the effects might be adverse, which could negatively affect our ability to pay you dividends and cause you to lose all or part of your investment. In the event that our Board of Directors determines that we cannot economically pursue our investment objective under the 1940 Act, they may at some future date decide to withdraw our election to be treated as a business development company and convert us to a management investment company or an operating company not subject to regulation under the 1940 Act, or cause us to liquidate. These changes would require the approval of a requisite percentage of our Board of Directors and the holders of a majority of our shares. We may choose to waive or defer enforcement of covenants in the debt securities held in our portfolio, which may cause us to lose all or part of our investment in these companies. We generally structure the debt investments in our portfolio companies to include customary business and financial covenants placing affirmative and negative obligations on the operation of each company’s business and its financial condition. However, from time to time we may elect to waive breaches of these covenants, including our right to payment, or waive or defer enforcement of remedies, such as acceleration of obligations or foreclosure on collateral, depending upon the financial condition and prospects of the particular portfolio company. These actions may reduce the likelihood of us receiving the full amount of future payments of interest or principal and be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of the underlying collateral as many of these companies may have limited financial resources, may be unable to meet future obligations and may go bankrupt. This could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. We may concentrate our portfolio investments in a limited number of portfolio companies, which would magnify the effect if one of those companies were to suffer a significant loss. This could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. We are a closed-end, non-diversified management investment company under the 1940 Act, which means we are not limited by the 1940 Act in the proportion of our assets that may be invested in the securities of a single issuer. A consequence of this concentration is that the aggregate returns we initially realize may be adversely affected if a small number of our investments perform poorly or if we need to write down the value of any one such investment. Beyond the applicable federal income tax diversification requirements, we do not have fixed guidelines for diversification, and our investments could be concentrated in relatively few portfolio companies. Financial difficulty on the part of any single portfolio company will expose us to a greater risk of loss than would be the case if we were a “diversified” company holding numerous investments. To the extent that we take large positions in the securities of a small number of portfolio companies, our net asset value and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate as a result of changes in the financial condition or in the market’s assessment of such portfolio companies to a greater extent than that of a diversified investment company. These factors could negatively affect our ability to pay dividends and cause the loss of all or part of your investment. In addition, we concentrate our investments in the energy industry. Consequently, this concentration exposes us to the risks of adverse developments affecting the energy industry to a greater extent than if we dispersed our investments over a variety of industries. See “The energy industry is subject to many risks.” 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our principal investment strategy is to invest in subordinated or mezzanine securities, which may be junior to other debts incurred by the portfolio companies. As a result, the holders of such debt may be entitled to payments of principal or interest prior to us, preventing us from obtaining the full value of our investment in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. We invest a substantial amount of our assets in subordinated debt securities and mezzanine investments issued by our portfolio companies. The portfolio companies will usually have or we may permit them to incur, other debt that ranks equally with, or senior to, the securities in which we invest. By their terms, such debt instruments may entitle the holders to receive payment of interest or principal on or before the dates on which we are entitled to receive payments in respect of the securities in which we invest. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a portfolio company, holders of debt instruments ranking senior to our investment in that portfolio company would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before we receive any distribution in respect of our investment. After repaying such senior creditors, the portfolio company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying its obligation to us. In the case of debt ranking equally with securities in which we invest, we would have to share on an equal basis any distributions with other creditors holding such securities in the event of an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of the relevant portfolio company. An event such as an insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a relevant portfolio company may prevent us from obtaining the full value of our investment. Our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged. Some of our portfolio companies may be highly leveraged, which may have adverse consequences to these companies and to us as an investor. These companies may be subject to restrictive financial and operating covenants and the leverage may impair these companies’ ability to finance their future operations and capital needs. As a result, these companies’ flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to take advantage of business opportunities may be limited. Further, a leveraged company’s income and net assets will tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than if borrowed money were not used. If we fail to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, investor confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of our securities. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We reported a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, which resulted in material misstatements in certain of our historical financial statements, that required us to restate those financial statements. Management subsequently implemented new control processes and procedures, and that material weakness has since been remediated. However, we cannot assure you that additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, and cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated thereunder. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. Failure to deploy new capital may reduce our return on equity. Until we identify new investment opportunities, we intend to either invest the net proceeds of future offerings in interest-bearing deposits or other short-term instruments or use the net proceeds from such offerings to reduce then-outstanding obligations under our credit facility. We cannot assure you that we will be 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS able to find enough appropriate investments that meet our investment criteria or that any investment we complete using the proceeds from an offering will produce a sufficient return. If we fail to invest any new capital effectively our return on equity may be negatively impacted, which could reduce the price of the shares of our common stock. We may invest a portion of our assets in foreign securities. Investing in foreign securities typically involves more risks than investing in U.S. securities. These risks can increase the potential for losses by us and negatively affect our stock price. Foreign securities may be issued and traded in foreign currencies. As a result, changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies may affect their values and the U.S. dollar. For example, if the value of the U.S. dollar goes up compared to a foreign currency, a loan payable in that foreign currency will go down in value because it will be worth fewer U.S. dollars. The political, economic, and social structure of some foreign countries may be less stable and more volatile than those in the U.S. Investments in these countries may be subject to the risks of internal and external conflicts, currency devaluations, foreign ownership limitations and tax increases. A government may take over assets or operations of a company or impose restrictions on the exchange or export of currency or other assets. Some countries also may have different legal systems that may make it difficult for us to vote proxies, exercise stockholder rights, and pursue legal remedies with respect to foreign investments. Diplomatic and political developments, including rapid and adverse political changes, social instability, regional conflicts, terrorism and war, could affect the economies, industries and securities and currency markets, and the value of our investments, in non-U.S. countries. These factors are extremely difficult, if not impossible, to predict and to take into account with respect to our investments in foreign securities. Brokerage commissions and other fees generally are higher for foreign securities. Government supervision and regulation of foreign stock exchanges, currency markets, trading systems and brokers may be less than in the U.S. The procedures and rules governing foreign transactions and custody (holding of our assets) may involve delays in payment, delivery or recovery of money or investments. Foreign companies may not be subject to the same disclosure, accounting, auditing and financial reporting standards and practices as U.S. companies. Thus, there may be less information publicly available about foreign companies than about most U.S. companies. Certain foreign securities may be less liquid (harder to sell) and more volatile than many U.S. securities. This means we may at times be unable to sell foreign securities at favorable prices. Dividend and interest income from foreign securities may be subject to withholding taxes by the country in which the issuer is located, and we may not be able to pass through to our stockholders foreign tax credits or deductions with respect to these taxes. We may be subject to the risks associated with the ethanol industry. The ethanol industry is subject to many risks that may adversely affect the market price of ethanol. For example, overcapacity in the ethanol industry may result in a decrease in the market price of ethanol if the demand for ethanol does not grow at the same pace as increases in supply. In addition, the ethanol industry is highly competitive, and other companies presently in the market, or that are about to enter the market, could adversely affect the market price of ethanol. Moreover, because corn is the principal raw material used to produce ethanol, the cost and supply of corn directly affects ethanol companies. Changes in the price and supply of corn are subject to and determined by market forces over which we have no or little control, including overall supply and demand, government programs and policies, weather, and other factors. Furthermore, because federal and state government policies primarily drive growth and demand for ethanol, a change in government policies favorable to ethanol may cause demand for ethanol to decline. These favorable government policies include the national renewable fuels standard, and various federal ethanol tax incentives that assist the ethanol industry. The continuation of these policies is uncertain, which means that demand for ethanol may decline if these policies change or are discontinued. A decline in the demand of ethanol is likely to cause lower ethanol prices. In addition, tariffs on imported ethanol, which currently effectively limit imported ethanol into the United States, could be reduced or eliminated, which may in turn negatively affect the demand for domestic ethanol and the price at which domestic ethanol is sold. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Related to Our Manager Our Manager and our management team have limited experience managing a BDC and a RIC, and we cannot assure you that their past experience will be sufficient to manage our company as a BDC and a RIC. The 1940 Act imposes numerous complex constraints on the operations of BDCs. In order to maintain our status as a BDC, the 1940 Act prohibits us from acquiring any assets other than “qualifying assets” unless, after giving effect to the acquisition, at least 70% of our total assets are qualifying assets. We refer to this requirement as the 70% test. The failure to comply with these provisions in a timely manner could prevent us from qualifying as a BDC or could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties, which could be material. Additionally, the RIC rules imposed by the Code require us to meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The limited experience of our management team in managing a portfolio of assets under such regulatory constraints may hinder its ability to take advantage of attractive investment opportunities and, as a result, achieve our investment objectives. Our management team may provide services to other investors, which could reduce the amount of time and effort that they devote to us, which could negatively affect our performance. Our investment advisory agreement does not restrict the right of our Manager, NGP, or any persons working on our behalf, to carry on their respective businesses, including providing advice to others with respect to the purchase of securities that would meet our investment objectives. Although the officers of our Manager devote full time to the management of our business, our investment advisory agreement does not specify a minimum time period that representatives of NGP who are serving as directors or members of our Manager’s investment committee must devote to managing our investments. Each of Messrs. Hersh and Albin (who serve as members of our Board of Directors), and Messrs. Quinn and Covington (who serve as members of our Manager’s investment committee) continue to have substantial responsibilities in connection with their roles managing other NGP-affiliated funds. Our portfolio companies may request managerial assistance from our Manager and its management team. The ability of these parties to engage in these other business activities, including managing assets for third parties, could reduce the time and effort they spend managing our portfolio, which could negatively affect our performance. Our future success depends upon the members of our management team and their access to investment professionals of our Manager’s affiliates and the loss of any of them could detrimentally affect our operations. We depend on the diligence, experience, skill and network of business contacts of our management team. We also depend, to a significant extent, on our Manager’s investment professionals and the information and deal flow generated by them in the course of their investment and portfolio management activities. Our management team evaluates, negotiates, structures, closes and monitors our investments. Our future success will depend on the continued service of our management team. The departure of any of the senior members of our management team, or of a significant number of the investment professionals of our Manager, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our investment objectives. We have not entered into employment agreements, nor do we have an employment relationship, with any of these individuals. There is competition for qualified professionals in our Manager’s industry. If our Manager is unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully implement our investment strategy and the value of your investment could decline. In addition, we can offer no assurance that our Manager will remain our Manager or that we will continue to have access to the investment professionals of our Manager or their information and deal flow. The loss of any member of our management team could detrimentally affect our operations. Our obligation to reimburse our Manager for certain expenses could result in a conflict of interest. In the course of our investing activities, we pay management and incentive fees to our Manager. Also, we reimburse our Manager and our Administrator for certain expenses they incur, such as those payable to third parties in monitoring our financial and legal affairs and investments and performing due diligence on our prospective investments. As a result, investors in our common stock will invest on a “gross” basis and receive 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS distributions on a “net” basis after expenses, resulting in, among other things, a lower rate of return than one might achieve through direct investments. Due to this arrangement, there may be times when our Manager has interests that differ from those of our stockholders, giving rise to a conflict that could negatively affect our investment returns and the value of your investment. We pay our Manager a base management fee based upon our total assets, which may lead our Manager to cause us to incur more debt than is prudent in order to maximize its compensation. We will pay our Manager a quarterly base management fee based on the value of our total assets (including assets acquired with borrowed funds). Accordingly, our Manager has an enhanced economic incentive to increase our leverage, including through the issuance of debt securities, convertible securities and preferred stock. Increased leverage will expose us to increased risk of loss, increased cost of issuing and servicing such senior securities, and subject us to any additional covenant restrictions imposed in an indenture or by the applicable lender, which could negatively affect our business and results of operation. We pay our Manager incentive compensation based on our portfolio’s performance. This arrangement may lead our Manager to recommend riskier or more speculative investments in an effort to maximize its incentive compensation. In addition to its base management fee, our Manager earns incentive compensation in two parts. The first part is payable quarterly and is equal to a specified percentage of the amount by which our net investment income exceeds a hurdle rate. The second part of the incentive fee is determined and payable in arrears as of the end of each calendar year and equals (1) 20% of (a) our net realized capital gain (realized capital gains less realized capital losses) on a cumulative basis from the closing date of our initial public offering to the end of such fiscal year, less (b) any unrealized capital depreciation at the end of such fiscal year, less (2) the aggregate amount of all capital gains fees paid to our Manager in prior years. For accounting purposes only, in order to reflect the theoretical capital gains incentive fee that would be payable for a given period as if all unrealized capital gains were realized, we will accrue a capital gains incentive fee as described above (in accordance with the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement), plus 20% of unrealized capital gains on investments held at the end of such period. It should be noted that the portion of the accruals for the capital gains incentive fees attributable to unrealized capital gains will not necessarily be payable under the Investment Advisory Agreement, and may never be paid based on the computation of capital gains incentive fees in subsequent periods. Amounts paid under the Investment AdvisoryAgreement will be consistent with the formula reflected in the investment advisory agreement. The way in which we determine the incentive fee payable to our Manager may encourage our Manager to use leverage to increase the return on our investments. Under certain circumstances, the use of leverage may increase the likelihood of default, which would adversely affect our stockholders because their interests would be subordinate to those of debtholders. In addition, our Manager receives the incentive fee based, in part, upon net capital gains realized on our investments. Unlike the portion of the incentive fee based on income, there is no hurdle rate applicable to the portion of the incentive fee based on net capital gains. As a result, our Manager may have a tendency to invest more in investments that are likely to result in capital gains as compared to income-producing securities. Other key criteria related to determining appropriate investments and investment strategies, including the preservation of capital, might be under-weighted if our Manager focuses exclusively or disproportionately on maximizing its income. Such a practice could result in our investing in more speculative securities than would otherwise be the case, which could result in higher investment losses. The payment of part of the incentive compensation on a quarterly basis may lead our Manager to accelerate or defer interest payable by our portfolio companies in a manner that could result in fluctuations in the timing and amount of dividends. Our Manager receives a quarterly incentive fee based, in part, on our net investment income, if any, for the immediately preceding fiscal quarter. To the extent our Manager exerts influence over our portfolio companies, the quarterly incentive fee may provide our Manager with an incentive to induce our portfolio companies to accelerate or defer payments for interest or other obligations owed to us from one fiscal quarter to another. This could result in greater fluctuations in the timing and amount of dividends that we pay. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may be obligated to pay our Manager incentive compensation even if we incur a loss. The investment advisory agreement entitles our Manager to receive incentive compensation for each fiscal quarter in an amount equal to a percentage of the excess of our net investment income for that quarter above a hurdle rate. In addition, the investment advisory agreement further provides that our net investment income for incentive compensation purposes excludes unrealized capital losses that we may incur in the fiscal quarter, even if such capital losses result in a net loss on our statement of operations for that quarter. The calculation of the incentive fee includes any deferred interest accrued we have not yet received. As a result, we may be paying an incentive fee on interest, the collection of which may be uncertain or deferred. Thus, we may be required to pay our Manager incentive compensation for a fiscal quarter even if there is a decline in the value of our portfolio or we incur a net loss for that quarter. While our management team currently does not provide advisory services to other investment vehicles that may have common investment objectives with ours, our management team may do so in the future and may face conflicts of interest in allocating investments. Our management team does not currently provide advisory services to other investment vehicles with common investment objectives to ours. However, they are not prohibited from doing so. In addition, the NGP-affiliated funds are not precluded from making investments in securities like our targeted investments, although they have not traditionally focused on such types of investments in the past. If our management team does provide such services to other investment vehicles in the future, or if the focus of the NGP-affiliated funds were to change to include securities like our targeted investments, our management team might allocate investment opportunities to other entities, and thus might divert attractive investment opportunities away from us. In addition, our executive officers and directors, and the members of our management team, serve or may serve as officers, directors or principals of entities that operate in the same or a related line of business as we do or of investment funds managed by our affiliates. These multiple responsibilities might create conflicts of interest for our management team and NGP if they are presented with opportunities that might benefit us and their other clients, investors or stockholders. Our Manager’s liability is limited under the investment advisory agreement, and we have agreed to indemnify our Manager against certain liabilities, which may lead our Manager to act in a riskier manner on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. Our Manager has not assumed any responsibility to us other than to provide the services described in the investment advisory agreement, and it is not responsible for any action of our Board of Directors in declining to follow our Manager’s advice or recommendations. Pursuant to the investment advisory agreement, our Manager, its partners and, among others, their respective partners, officers and employees are not liable to us for their acts under the investment advisory agreement, absent willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties. We have agreed to indemnify, defend and protect our Manager and its managing members, officers and employees with respect to all expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, demands, charges and claims arising from acts of our Manager not constituting willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard in the performance of their duties. These protections may lead our Manager to act in a riskier manner when acting on our behalf than it would when acting for its own account. We are a different vehicle from any other NGP-affiliated fund. Our investment strategies differ from those of other funds (including any NGP-affiliated fund) that are, or have been, managed by NGP or its affiliates. Investors in NGP Capital Resources Company do not own any interest in NGP or in any other NGP-affiliated fund. The historical performance of NGP is not indicative of the results that our company will achieve, and you should not rely upon such historical performance in purchasing our common stock. The rate of return we target on investments is lower than that of NGP’s private equity funds, and as a result, our expected rate of return is lower than returns sought by NGP’s private equity funds. We can provide no assurance that we will replicate the historical or future performance of NGP or its affiliated funds, and we caution you that our investment returns may be substantially lower than the returns achieved by those funds. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Legal and Tax Risks A failure on our part to maintain our status as a BDC would significantly reduce our operating flexibility. Failure to continue to qualify as a business development company may cause us to be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the 1940 Act, which would significantly decrease our operating flexibility. We will be subject to corporate-level income tax if we are unable to qualify as a RIC. To qualify as a RIC under the Code, we must meet certain source-of-income, asset diversification and annual distribution requirements. The annual distribution requirement for a RIC is satisfied if we distribute at least 90% of our “investment company taxable income” (which generally consists of ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses) and net tax-exempt interest to our stockholders on an annual basis. Because we use debt financing, we are subject to certain asset coverage ratio requirements under the 1940 Act as a BDC, and financial covenants under our existing loan and credit agreements that could, under certain circumstances, restrict us from making distributions necessary to qualify as a RIC. If we are unable to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and, thus, may be subject to corporate-level income tax. To qualify as a RIC, we must also meet certain asset diversification requirements at the end of each calendar quarter. Failure to meet these tests may result in our having to dispose of certain investments quickly in order to prevent the loss of RIC status. Because most of our investments will be in private companies, we could make such dispositions at disadvantageous prices that may result in substantial losses. If we fail to qualify as a RIC for any reason at any time in the future and we remain or become subject to corporate income tax, the resulting corporate taxes could substantially reduce our net assets, the amount of income available for distribution and the amount of our distributions. In addition, our distributions would be taxable to our stockholders as ordinary dividends. Such a failure would likely have a material adverse effect on our stockholders and us. For example, we failed to qualify as a RIC for our first taxable year ended on December 31, 2004. We may have difficulty paying our required distributions if we recognize income before, or without, receiving cash representing such income. If we are unable to pay required distributions, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. Federal income tax rules require us to include certain amounts in income that we have not yet received in cash, such as original issue discounts or payment-in-kind interest. Examples of original issue discounts are warrants, property-based equity participation rights or loan discount points we may receive in connection with the purchase of a loan. Payment-in-kind interest represents contractual interest added to the loan balance and due at the end of the loan term. We include such original issue discount or increases in loan balances from payment-in-kind arrangements in income before we receive any corresponding cash payments. These amounts could be significant relative to our company’s overall investment activities. We also may be required to include certain other amounts in income that we do not receive in cash. Since in certain cases we may recognize income before or without receiving cash representing such income, we may have difficulty meeting the tax requirement to distribute at least 90% of the sum of our “investment company taxable income” (which generally consists of ordinary income and realized net short-term capital gains in excess of realized net long-term capital losses, if any, reduced by deductible expenses) and net tax-exempt interest, if any, to our stockholders on an annual basis, to maintain our status as a RIC. Accordingly, we may have to sell some of our investments at times we would not consider advantageous, raise additional debt or equity capital, borrow funds or reduce new investment originations to meet these distribution requirements. If we are not able to obtain cash from other sources, we may fail to qualify as a RIC and thus be subject to corporate-level income tax. Regulations governing our operation as a BDC affect our ability to, and the way in which, we raise additional capital. We have elected to be treated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. The 1940 Act imposes numerous restrictions on our activities, including restrictions on the nature of our investments, our use of borrowed funds, our 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS issuance of securities, options, warrants, or rights. Such restrictions may prohibit the purchase of certain investments that would otherwise be suitable for investment or render such purchases inadvisable. The provisions of the 1940 Act permitted us, as a BDC, to issue senior securities only in amounts such that our asset coverage, as defined in the 1940 Act, equals at least 200% after each issuance of senior securities. If the value of our assets declines, we may be unable to satisfy this test. If that happens, we may be required to sell a portion of our investments and, depending on the nature of our leverage, repay a portion of our indebtedness at a time when such sales may be disadvantageous and result in unfavorable prices. We generally cannot issue and sell our common stock at a price below net asset value per share. However, we may sell our common stock, or warrants, options or rights to acquire our common stock, at prices below the current net asset value of the common stock (i) in connection with a rights offering to our existing stockholders, (ii) if our Board of Directors determines that such sale is in the best interests of our company and its stockholders, and our stockholders approve such sale or (iii) under such circumstances as the SEC may permit. In any such case, the price at which we may issue and sell our securities may not be less than a price that, in the determination of our Board of Directors, closely approximates the market value of such securities (less any distributing commission or discount). If our common stock trades at a discount to net asset value, this restriction could adversely affect our ability to raise capital. Because there are no judicial and few administrative interpretations of the provisions of the 1940 Act pertaining to business development companies, there is no assurance that such provisions will be interpreted or administratively implemented in a manner consistent with our investment objectives and intended manner of operation. In the event that our Board of Directors determines that we cannot economically pursue our investment objective under the 1940 Act, they may at some future date decide to withdraw our election to be regulated as a BDC and convert us to a management investment company or an operating company not subject to regulation under the 1940 Act, or cause us to liquidate. These changes would require the approval of a requisite percentage of our Board of Directors and the holders of a majority of our shares. Changes in laws or regulations governing our operations and those of our portfolio companies, our Manager or its affiliates may adversely affect our business or cause us to alter our business strategy. We, our portfolio companies, and our Manager and its affiliates are subject to regulation by laws and regulations at the local, state and federal level. Our government may enact new legislation or new interpretations or adopt new rulings or regulations, including those governing the types of our permitted investments. These actions could retroactively harm our Manager, our stockholders and us. Such changes could result in material changes to our strategies and plans and may result in our investment focus shifting from the areas of expertise of our Manager to other types of investments in which our Manager may have less expertise or little or no experience. Thus, any such changes, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the value of your investment. For example, under current federal tax laws, our portfolio companies are entitled to certain deductions relating to their operations, including deductions for intangible drilling costs, manufacturing tax deductions and depletion deductions. The President’s budget for the fiscal year 2010 outlines proposals to eliminate several oil and gas federal income tax incentives, including the repeal of the manufacturing tax deduction, percentage depletion allowance and expensing of intangible drilling costs for oil and natural gas. It is not possible at this time to predict how any future legislation or new regulations adopted to address these proposals would impact our business or the business of our portfolio companies, but any such future laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of your investment. Certain regulations restrict our ability to enter into transactions with our affiliates. The 1940 Act prohibits us from knowingly participating in certain transactions with our affiliates without the prior approval of our independent directors and, in certain cases, the SEC. Any person that owns, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding voting securities is our affiliate for purposes of the 1940 Act, and the 1940 Act generally prohibits us from buying or selling any security from or to such affiliate, absent the prior approval of our independent directors and, in certain cases, the SEC. The 1940 Act also prohibits “joint” transactions with an affiliate, which could include investments in the same portfolio company (whether at the same or different times), without prior approval of our independent directors and, in certain cases, the 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS SEC. If a person acquires more than 25% of our voting securities, we must obtain prior approval from the SEC before buying or selling any security from or to such person, or entering into joint transactions with such person. Our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure and accounting requirements that could adversely affect our business and financial results. We are subject to changing rules and regulations of federal and state government as well as the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed. These entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and the Nasdaq Global Market, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements in response to laws enacted by Congress. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that require the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations. Prior to full implementation, it will be difficult to assess the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on the Company. Our efforts to comply with these requirements have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management’s time from other business activities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 