Item 1A. Risk Factors We believe the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are material to an understanding of our company. Any of the following risks as well as other risks and uncertainties discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects and cause the value of our stock to decline. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that are currently deemed immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. We rely on a limited number of partner agents, one of which accounts for a substantial portion of business. Our failure to recruit and retain partner agents could materially adversely affect our results. Our transition of our partner agents’ business may significantly delay our ability to generate revenue. We have only nine partner agents. We hope to enter into additional partner agent relationships in the future. Our ability to recruit and retain partner agents may be negatively impacted by certain aspects of our business model, including our requirement that partner agents defer and make contingent a portion of their agency commissions and purchase, or commit to purchase, shares of our Class B Shares. Our ability to add new partner agents may be limited by our level of capital. In addition, several partner agents make up a significant portion of our written premiums. A lack of premium production from any one these partner agent may adversely affect our business. Similarly, a reliance on any one partner agent to produce premium may adversely affect our business. For the year ended December 31, 2008, our partner agent Risk Transfer Holdings, Inc., or RTH, produced approximately 44.7% of our total gross written premiums. Any deterioration of our relationship with RTH or decrease in RTH’s premium production could materially adversely affect our results in future periods. Our business is heavily concentrated in California and Florida. If our premiums are reduced in these states in the future, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. We currently write approximately 63.2% of our business in California and Florida. We may be unable to write in these states in the future due to regulatory prohibitions such as disapproval of policy forms and premium rates, inability to meet solvency standards or revocation of our licenses. We may also face competition that reduces our premiums in these states. A reduction in our premium volume in these states could have a material adverse effect on our business. We face competition from companies with greater financial resources, broader product lines, higher ratings and stronger financial performance than us, which may impair our ability to retain existing customers and maintain our profitability and financial strength. We compete with a large number of U.S. and non-U.S. insurers, insurance agencies and intermediaries, and diversified financial services companies such as Lincoln General Insurance Company, American International Group, Inc., CNA Financial Corporation, Travelers Companies, Inc., Zenith National Insurance Corp., National Interstate Corporation, RLI Corp., Zurich Financial Services, Liberty Mutual Holding Company, Inc, Navigators Insurance Co., and Swiss Re. Other newly formed and existing insurance companies also may be preparing to enter 15 2008 Form 10-K Specialty Underwriters’ Alliance, Inc. Table of Contents the same market segments in which we compete or raise new capital. Since we have limited operating history, our competitors have greater name and brand recognition than we have. Many of them also have greater financial strength and ratings assigned by independent ratings agencies and more (in some cases substantially more) capital and greater marketing and management resources than we have and may offer a broader range of products and more competitive pricing than we offer. Our competitive position is based on many factors, including our perceived financial strength, market conditions overall and in the property and casualty insurance business, ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, geographic scope of business, client relationships, premiums charged, contract terms and conditions, products and services offered (including the ability to design customized programs), speed of claims payment, reputation, experience and qualifications of employees and local presence. We choose types and lines of businesses (such as tow trucks and workers’ compensation) that do not require “A” level A.M. Best ratings or that can utilize the fronting relationships that we have established (such as public entities). As insurance capacity grows either as a result of limited loss events or new competitors entering the market, insurance companies may either begin or increase writing premiums in the specialty insurance markets thereby increasing competition for, and downward pricing pressure on, our products. We work with a limited number of partner agents, which enable us to provide them with customized approaches to their business and give them long-term (five years) exclusive arrangements. Our systems capability is designed for this type of business, which enables us to change and adapt quicker to changes in the marketplace. Since we are a relatively new company, we may not be able to compete successfully on many, or any, of these bases. If competition limits our ability to write new business at adequate rates, our return on capital may be adversely affected. In addition, a number of new, proposed or potential legislative or industry developments could further increase competition in our industry. In certain states, state-sponsored entities provide property insurance in catastrophe-prone areas or other “alternative markets” types of coverage. Furthermore, the growth of services offered over the Internet may lead to greater competition in the insurance business. New competition from these developments could cause the supply and/or demand for insurance to change, which could adversely affect our underwriting results. Our secure category rating of “B+” (Good) from A.M. Best may place us at a competitive disadvantage or cause us to incur additional expenses. A future downgrade in our ratings could affect our competitive position with customers, and our rating may put us at a disadvantage with higher-rated carriers. Competition in the types of insurance business that we underwrite is based on many factors, including the perceived financial strength of the insurer and ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. A.M. Best is generally considered to be a significant rating agency with respect to the evaluation of insurance companies. A.M. Best’s ratings are based on a quantitative evaluation of a company’s performance with respect to profitability, leverage and liquidity and a qualitative evaluation of spread of risk, investments, reinsurance programs, reserves and management. Insurance ratings are used by customers, reinsurers and reinsurance intermediaries as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. Our secure category rating of “B+” (Good) from A.M. Best is the sixth highest of 15 rating levels and indicates A.M. Best’s opinion of our financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations to our policyholders. The rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our securities. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain this rating. If we experience a ratings downgrade, we may experience a substantial loss of business as policyholders might purchase insurance from companies with higher claims-paying and financial strength ratings instead of from us. Certain financial institutions and banks require property owners with loans to be insured by insurers with at least an “A–” rating by A.M. Best. Certain other insureds choose to insure their own property and casualty risks only with such higher-rated insurers. Also, due to financial responsibility laws, some states and the federal government require certain regulated entities to purchase mandatory insurance from insurers holding a minimum of “A–” rating by A.M. Best. Some agents may be unwilling or unable to write certain lines of business such as property, long-tail liability lines and automobile liability with insurers that are not rated at least “A–” by A.M. Best. Although we have entered into a fronting arrangement under which policies may be nominally written by a higher rated insurer to allow our partner agents to produce business in the public entity and non-profit organization programs, there can be no assurances that this arrangement will continue to be available at a reasonable price or acceptable to independent agents, and each policy written using the fronting arrangement will increase our acquisition costs relating to that policy. If we are not able to continue this fronting arrangement, we may lose access to certain types of customers. 16 2008 Form 10-K Specialty Underwriters’ Alliance, Inc. Table of Contents We may misevaluate the risks we seek to insure. If we misevaluate these risks, our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We were formed to provide commercial lines insurance to specialty program markets through our operating subsidiary. The market for commercial lines insurance to specialty programs differs significantly from the standard market. In the standard market, insurance rates and forms are highly regulated, products and coverages are largely uniform and have relatively predictable exposures and companies tend to compete for customers on the basis of price. In contrast, the specialty market provides coverage for risks that do not fit the underwriting criteria of most standard carriers. Our success depends on the ability of our underwriters to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses that we insure. Underwriting for specialty program lines requires us to make assumptions about matters that are inherently unpredictable and beyond our control, and for which historical experience and probability analysis may not provide sufficient guidance. Such matters include, but are not limited to the effects of future inflation on our claim trends, future law changes in jurisdictions where we do business, judicial interpretations regarding policy coverage, the predictability and frequency of catastrophic events, and medical protocol changes. If we fail to adequately evaluate the risks to be insured, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, since our claims experience could be significantly different than what we assumed in our pricing, resulting in reduced underwriting profits or underwriting losses. Our actual insured losses may be greater than our loss reserves, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operation. Our success depends upon our ability to assess accurately the risks associated with the businesses that we insure. Significant periods of time often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss to an insurer and payment by the insurer of that loss. As we write insurance business and recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, we establish reserves as balance sheet liabilities. These reserves represent estimates of amounts needed to pay reported losses and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expense. Loss reserves are only an estimate of what an insurer anticipates the ultimate costs of claims to be and do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Estimating loss reserves is a difficult and complex process involving many variables and subjective judgments, particularly for new companies, such as ours, that have limited loss development experience. As part of our reserving process, we review historical data as well as actuarial and statistical projections and consider the impact of various factors such as: • trends in claim frequency and severity; • changes in operations; • emerging economic and social trends; • inflation; and • changes in the regulatory and litigation environments. This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate basis for predicting future events. There is no precise method, however, for evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, and actual results are likely to differ from original estimates. In addition, unforeseen losses, the type or magnitude of which we cannot predict, may emerge in the future. To the extent our loss reserves are insufficient to cover actual losses or loss adjustment expenses, we will have to add to these loss reserves and incur a charge to our earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of underwriting and cash flows. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We expect that our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our ability to write new business successfully and to establish premium rates and reserves at levels sufficient to cover our losses. Maintaining adequate capital consistent with business objectives and regulatory requirements is critical to any insurer’s future. We believe that our current level of capital is sufficient, but may need to be augmented to further expand our business strategy, enter new business lines, and manage our expected growth or to deal with higher than expected expenses or poorer than expected results. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. If we are able to raise capital through equity financings, our common stockholder’s interest in our company could be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and 17 2008 Form 10-K Specialty Underwriters’ Alliance, Inc. Table of Contents privileges that are senior to those of our current common stockholders. If we cannot obtain additional adequate capital, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Current difficult conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and the economy generally. The stress experienced by global financial markets that began in the second half of 2007 continued and substantially increased during 2008. The volatility and disruption in the global financial markets have reached unprecedented levels. The availability and cost of credit has been materially affected. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, depressed home prices and increasing foreclosures, falling equity market values, declining business and consumer confidence and the risks of increased inflation and unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown and fears of a severe recession. The global fixed-income markets are experiencing a period of both extreme volatility and limited market liquidity conditions, which has affected a broad range of asset classes and sectors. As a result, the market for fixed income instruments has experienced decreased liquidity, increased price volatility, credit downgrade events and increased probability of default. These events and the continuing market upheavals have had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on us. Our revenues could decline in such circumstances, the cost of meeting our obligations to our customers may increase, and our profit margins could erode. In addition, in the event of a prolonged economic downturn, we could incur significant losses in our investment portfolio. The demand for our insurance products could be adversely affected in an economic downturn. Our policyholders may choose to defer or stop paying insurance premiums. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval in a timely manner, our ability to generate revenue could be delayed. We must successfully receive approval of our rates and forms in order to issue policies in certain jurisdictions. A delay in our ability to receive timely approval could lead to a significant delay in our ability to generate revenues. The availability of reinsurance that we use to limit our exposure to risks may be limited, and counterparty credit and other risks associated with our reinsurance arrangements may result in losses that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. To limit our risk of loss, we purchase reinsurance. The availability and cost of reinsurance protection is subject to market conditions, which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain, or in the future renew, adequate protection at cost-effective levels. For our workers’ compensation business, our reinsurers are responsible for losses between $1 million and $10 million due to any single occurrence under a policy and for losses in excess of $10 million up to $35 million for a multiple loss occurrence. For our non-workers’ compensation casualty business, we do not write policies above $1 million and therefore do not need reinsurance protection for single loss occurrences. For this business, our reinsurers are responsible between $1 million and $5 million of losses for a multiple loss occurrence. As a result of market conditions and other factors, we may not be able to successfully mitigate our exposure to loss by purchasing reinsurance to the extent we would desire. Further, we are subject to credit risk with respect to our reinsurance arrangements because the ceding of risk to reinsurers does not relieve us of our liability to the clients or companies we insure. Our failure to establish adequate reinsurance arrangements or the failure of our reinsurance arrangements to protect us from overly concentrated risk exposure could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The occurrence of severe catastrophic events may have a material adverse effect on us. We underwrite property and casualty insurance which covers catastrophic events. Therefore, we have large aggregate exposures to natural and man-made disasters, such as hurricane, typhoon, windstorm, flood, earthquake, acts of war, acts of terrorism and political instability. We expect that our loss experience generally will include infrequent events of great severity. Although we may attempt to exclude losses from terrorism and other similar risks from some coverages we write, we may not be successful in doing so. The risks associated with natural and man-made disasters are inherently unpredictable, and it is difficult to predict the timing of such events with 18 2008 Form 10-K Specialty Underwriters’ Alliance, Inc. Table of Contents statistical certainty or estimate the amount of loss any given occurrence will generate. The extent of losses from a catastrophe is a function of both the total amount of insured exposure in the area affected by the event and the severity of the event. While we attempt to limit our net exposure in any area and to any one catastrophe, we may not be able to do so. Therefore, the occurrence of losses from catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. These losses could adversely affect our net worth and reduce our stockholders’ equity and statutory surplus of our operating subsidiary (which is the amount remaining after all liabilities, including loss reserves, are subtracted from all admitted assets, as determined under statutory accounting principles, or SAP). A decrease in statutory surplus would adversely affect our operating subsidiary’s ability to write new business. Increases in the values and geographic concentrations of insured property and the effects of inflation have resulted in increased severity of industry losses in recent years and we expect that those factors will increase the severity of catastrophe losses in the future. The effects of emerging claim and coverage issues on our business are uncertain. As industry practices and legal, judicial, social and other environmental conditions change, unexpected issues related to claims and coverage may emerge with respect to various segments of our business. These issues may adversely affect our business by either extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent or by increasing the number or size of claims. In some instances, the effects of these changes may not become apparent until some time after we have issued insurance contracts that are affected by the changes. As a result, the full extent of liability under our insurance contracts may not be known for many years after a contract is issued. An example of this is a growing trend of plaintiffs targeting property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claims-handling, insurance sales practices and other practices related to the conduct of business in our industry. The effects of these and other unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues are extremely hard to predict and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to losses if OneBeacon fails to honor its reinsurance obligations to us. Specialty Underwriters’ Alliance, Inc. acquired Potomac and subsequently renamed the company SUA Insurance Company. Prior to the acquisition, Potomac entered into a transfer and assumption agreement with OneBeacon, whereby all of its liabilities, including all direct liabilities under existing insurance policies, were ceded to and assumed by OneBeacon. The legal requirements to transfer insurance obligations from one insurer to another, sometimes referred to as a novation, vary from state to state, generally based on the state in which the policy was issued. In some states, if certain notifications are made to policyholders and they do not object to the transfer within certain periods of time, they are deemed to have agreed to the transfer. In other states, policyholders must consent to the transfer in writing. Additionally, in some states insurance regulatory approval is required in addition to policyholder consents. To the extent that the legal requirements for novation have been met with regards to specific policies, OneBeacon is directly liable to those policyholders for any claims arising from insured events under those policies, and SUA no longer has any obligation to those policyholders. Accordingly, SUA has extinguished any recorded liabilities to such policyholders and the related reinsurance recoverables, so no gain or loss has occurred. Where a novation has not been achieved, SUA continues to be directly liable to legacy policyholders for claims arising under their policies, but has reinsurance coverage from OneBeacon to reimburse SUA for any such claims. Thus, SUA should not experience any gains or losses with respect to such legacy policies unless OneBeacon fails to honor its reinsurance obligation. In the event of OneBeacon’s failure to pay, SUA might experience losses that could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. A significant amount of our invested assets may be adversely affected by market volatility and interest rate changes. We invest the premiums we receive from customers. Our investment portfolio consists of highly rated, liquid fixed income securities. The fair market value of these assets and the investment income from these assets will fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. Because we classify all of our invested assets as available for sale, changes in the market value of our securities will be reflected in our consolidated balance sheet. In addition, market fluctuations will affect the value of our investment portfolio and could adversely affect our liquidity. Our investment results and, therefore, our financial condition may be impacted by changes in the financial condition of the entities in which we invest, as well as changes in interest rates, government monetary policies, general economic conditions and overall market conditions. 19 2008 Form 10-K Specialty Underwriters’ Alliance, Inc. Table of Contents Our investment portfolio contains interest rate-sensitive instruments, such as bonds, which may be adversely affected by changes in interest rates. Because of the unpredictable nature of losses that may arise under insurance policies, our liquidity needs are substantial and may increase at any time. Increases in interest rates during periods when we sell investments to satisfy liquidity needs may result in losses. Changes in interest rates also could have an adverse effect on our investment income and results of operations and may expose us to prepayment risks on certain fixed income investments. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we attempt to take measures to manage the risks of investing in a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to mitigate interest rate sensitivity effectively. Our mitigation efforts include maintaining a high quality portfolio with a relatively short duration to reduce the effect of interest rate changes on book value. Despite our mitigation efforts, a significant increase in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our book value. Our holding company structure and certain regulatory and other constraints affect our ability to pay dividends and make other payments. We are a holding company. As a result, we do not have, and do not expect to have, any significant operations or assets other than our ownership of the shares of our subsidiary. Dividends and other permitted distributions from our operating subsidiary are our primary source of funds to pay dividends, if any, to stockholders and to meet ongoing cash requirements, including debt service payments, if any, and other expenses. The inability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends in an amount sufficient to enable us to meet our cash requirements at the holding company level could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The ability of our operating subsidiary to pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders is subject to statutory and regulatory restrictions under Illinois law, including restrictions imposed as a matter of administrative policy, which are applicable generally to any insurance company in its state of domicile that limit such payments or distributions without prior approval by regulatory authorities. Illinois law provides that no dividend or other distribution may be declared or paid at any time except out of earned surplus, rather than contributed surplus. A dividend or other distribution may not be paid if the surplus of the domestic insurer is at an amount less than that required by Illinois law for the kind or kinds of business to be transacted by such insurer, or when payment of a dividend or other distribution by such insurer would reduce its surplus to less than such amount. Additionally, if insurance regulators determine that payment of a dividend or any other payments to an affiliate would, because of the financial condition of the paying insurance company or otherwise, be hazardous to such insurance company’s policyholders, the regulators may prohibit such payments that would otherwise be permitted without prior approval. Illinois law provides that a domestic insurer which is a member of a holding company system may not pay any extraordinary dividend nor make any other extraordinary distribution to its security holders until 30 days after the director of the Illinois Division of Insurance, or the Director, has received notice of the declaration thereof and has not within such period disapproved the payment unless the Director approves such payment within the 30-day period. Illinois law defines an extraordinary dividend or distribution as “any dividend or distribution of cash or other property whose fair market value, together with that of other dividends or distributions, made within the period of 12 consecutive months, ending on the date on which the proposed dividend is scheduled for payment or distribution, exceeds the greater of: (a) 10% of the company’s surplus as regards policyholders as of the 31st day of December next preceding, or (b) the net income of the company for the 12-month period ending the 31st day of December next preceding, but does not include pro rata distributions of any class of the company’s own securities.” We are subject to extensive regulation, which may adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. If we do not comply with these regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including fines, suspensions and withdrawals of licenses, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive governmental regulation and supervision. Most insurance regulations are designed to protect the interests of policyholders rather than stockholders and other investors. These regulations, generally administered by a department of insurance in each jurisdiction in which we do business or expect to do business, relate to, among other things: • approval of policy forms and premium rates; • standards of solvency, including risk-based capital measurements; 20 2008 Form 10-K Specialty Underwriters’ Alliance, Inc. Table of Contents • licensing of insurers and their agents; • restrictions on the nature, quality and concentration of investments; • restrictions on the ability of our insurance company subsidiary to pay dividends to us; • restrictions on transactions between insurance company subsidiaries and their affiliates; • restrictions on the size of risks insurable under a single policy; • requiring certain methods of accounting; • periodic examinations of our operations and finances; • prescribing the form and content of records of financial condition required to be filed; and • requiring reserves for unearned premium, losses and other purposes. For example, our operating subsidiary is subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by the laws of the jurisdictions in which it is licensed to transact an insurance business. As of December 31, 2008, the capital and surplus of our operating subsidiary was approximately $93.9 million. If our operating subsidiary does not maintain the required minimum capital and surplus of any jurisdiction in which it is licensed, it could be subject to regulatory action in such jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, the suspension or revocation of its license to transact insurance business in such jurisdiction. No jurisdiction in which our operating subsidiary is licensed has minimum capital and surplus requirements in excess of $35 million for the lines of insurance for which our operating subsidiary is licensed. Additionally, if our operating subsidiary does not maintain the required minimum capital and surplus for Illinois, its state of domicile, (which currently is $2.5 million) it could be placed into receivership in Illinois. Also, any new minimum capital and surplus requirements adopted in the future may require us to increase the capital and surplus of our operating subsidiary, which we may not be able to do. In addition, regulatory authorities have relatively broad discretion to deny or revoke licenses for various reasons, including the violation of regulations. We base some of our practices on our interpretations of regulations or practices that we believe are generally followed by the industry. These practices may turn out to be different from the interpretations of regulatory authorities. If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or otherwise penalize us. These actions could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Further, changes in the level of regulation of the insurance industry or changes in laws or regulations themselves or interpretations by regulatory authorities could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. In recent years, the state insurance regulatory framework in the United States has come under increased federal scrutiny, and some state legislators have considered or enacted laws that may alter or increase state authority to regulate insurance companies and insurance holding companies. Moreover, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, which is an association of the senior insurance regulatory officials of all 50 states and the District of Columbia, and state insurance regulators regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations, interpretations of existing laws and the development of new laws, which may be more restrictive or may result in higher costs to us than current statutory requirements. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and regulations under Delaware law could prevent or delay transactions that stockholders may favor and entrench current management. We are incorporated in Delaware. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as Delaware corporate law, contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable, including a provision that authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock with such voting rights, dividend rates, liquidation, redemption, conversion and other rights as our board of directors may fix and without further stockholder action. The issuance of preferred stock with voting rights could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. This can frustrate a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. Takeover attempts generally include offering stockholders a premium for their stock. Therefore, preventing a takeover attempt may cause our stockholders to lose an opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. 21 2008 Form 10-K Specialty Underwriters’ Alliance, Inc. Table of Contents Delaware law also prohibits a corporation from engaging in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. This provision may prevent changes in our management or corporate structure. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors is permitted to and may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. We completed our initial public offering in November 2004, and we do not have a significant presence in the Market. You may have difficulty selling your Common Stock because of the limited trading volume for such shares. Our Common Stock began trading on the Nasdaq Global Market in November 2004. As a relatively new public company, there may be less coverage of our Common Stock by securities analysts. In addition our Common Stock has limited trading volumes. One or both of these factors could result in price volatility and serve to depress the liquidity and market price of our Common Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 