Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks described below before making a decision to buy our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you might lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. We currently depend on two customers for substantially all of our revenue and the loss of, or a significant reduction in, orders from either of these customers would significantly reduce our revenue and adversely impact our operating results. Two customers account for substantially all of our revenue. Inventec Appliances (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Inventec Appliances (Pudong) Co., Ltd. and Inventec Appliances Corp., which are affiliated with each other and which we refer to collectively as Inventec, accounted for approximately 56.7%, 89.3% and 84.6% of our revenue in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. In addition, during the first quarter of 2005 we began shipping in volume to Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., Ltd., or Hon Hai, which accounted for 36.3% of our revenue in 2005. The loss of sales to either of these customers would have a significant negative impact on our business. Because our sales to these customers are made pursuant to standard purchase orders rather than contracts, orders may be cancelled or reduced more readily than if we had long-term purchase commitments with these customers. Purchase orders can be cancelled or rescheduled on relatively short notice. Cancellations of customer orders could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses. In addition, changes in forecasts or the timing of orders from these customers expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory, particularly during end product transitions that require a new generation of our platforms. This in turn could cause our operating results to fluctuate. For example, we experienced a lower than expected number of orders from Inventec in the first quarter of 2003, which contributed to a significant temporary decrease in our revenue. We believe that nearly all of our platforms sold to these customers are incorporated into various models within the Apple iPod product family. Apple may choose to use platforms in addition to ours for its products, use a different platform than ours altogether or develop an in-house solution. Any of these events would significantly harm our business. Further, because such a large portion of our revenue is tied to the Apple iPod product family, our success depends on Apple’s continued success with these products. In addition, if either of these customers’ relationships with Apple is disrupted for inability to deliver sufficient products or for any other reason, it could have a significant negative impact on our business. We do not 8 Table of Contents know the terms of either of these customers’ business relationships with Apple. Apple may choose to work with other manufacturers. The loss by either of these customers of sales to Apple could also harm our business and financial position. There are a relatively small number of potential customers for our platforms and we expect this customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, our operating results will likely continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers, as well as the ability of these customers to sell products that incorporate our platforms. In addition, we may from time to time enter into customer agreements providing for exclusivity periods during which we may only sell a specified product to that customer or only sell a limited amount of a specified product to other customers. Except for Inventec and Hon Hai, our customer relationships have been developed over a short period of time and are generally in their preliminary stages. We cannot be certain that these customers will generate significant revenue in the future. If our relationships with our newer customers do not continue to develop, we may not be able to expand our customer base or maintain or increase our revenue. We depend on one product family for all of our revenue, and if sales of our platforms decline, our business and financial position will suffer. We have one product family, which currently consists of platforms primarily for feature-rich personal media players. Our platforms consist of a system-on-chip, firmware and software. We currently derive, and expect to continue to derive in the near term, all of our revenue from sales of our platforms. Continued market acceptance of our platforms is critical to our future success. Because we have only one product family, we do not have alternate sources of revenue if sales of our platforms decline. We do not expect to sustain our recent growth rate, and we may not be able to manage our future growth effectively. We have experienced significant growth in a short period of time. For example, our revenue has increased from $1.9 million in 2001 to $225.2 million in 2005. We will likely not achieve similar revenue growth rates in future periods. You should not rely on the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future operating performance. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, our financial results could suffer. Our recent expansion has placed, and any future expansion will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources. We continue to hire a significant number of additional employees to support an increase in research and development as well as increase our sales and marketing efforts. To continue to successfully manage our growth, we believe we must effectively continue to: • hire, train, integrate and manage additional qualified engineers for research and development activities, sales and marketing personnel, and financial and information technology personnel; • enhance our customer resource management and manufacturing management systems; • implement and improve additional and existing administrative, financial and operations systems, procedures and controls; • expand and upgrade our technological capabilities and organizational structure; and • manage multiple relationships with our customers, distributors, suppliers and other third parties. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new platforms and products, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures. 9 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop successful new platforms or other products to keep pace with rapid technological change, we will be unable to expand our business and our operating results and competitive position would be harmed. The consumer electronics market is characterized by rapidly changing technology. This requires us to continuously develop new platforms or other products and enhancements for existing platforms to keep pace with evolving industry standards and rapidly changing customer requirements. For example, although our platforms historically were used only in hard disk drive-based personal media players, in 2005 we began deriving revenue from flash memory-based applications and, in 2006, the Company recently announced a new technology platform targeted at the computer notebook market that enables a secondary display. In addition, our products have recently been designed into personal media players that utilize satellite radio capabilities. However, if personal media player capabilities are adopted by adjacent markets such as wireless and mobile phones, we may need to develop platforms that can operate with these devices. We may not have the technological capabilities to develop, or the financial resources necessary to fund, these future innovations. Even if we are able to develop future innovations, if our future innovations produce technology that is behind that of our competitors, we may lose customers. Similarly, if our future innovations are ahead of the then-current technological standards in our industry, customers may be unwilling to purchase our platforms until the consumer electronics market is ready to accept them. If we are unable to successfully define, develop and introduce competitive new platforms or other products and enhance existing platforms, we may not be able to compete successfully. In addition, if we, or our customers, are unable to manage product transitions, our business and results of operations would be negatively affected. Development of new platforms and products may also require us to obtain rights to use intellectual property that we currently do not have. If we are unable to obtain or license the necessary intellectual property on reasonable terms or at all, our product development may be delayed and the gross margins on our planned products may be less than anticipated, and our business and results of operations would be negatively affected. If our Preface technology platform does not achieve broad market acceptance or is not otherwise successful, our business and operating results may suffer. We recently announced our new technology platform, Preface™, initially targeted at the notebook computer market. This technology platform, using a secondary display, is designed to give notebook users access to data, music and photos. As of December 31, 2005, we have made only limited sample shipments of this platform and have not yet derived significant revenue from this platform. The success of our Preface technology platform depends on several factors, including, but not limited to, the market for notebook computers in general and the demand for notebook computers with the Preface technology platform by notebook computer manufacturers and consumers. Notebook computer manufacturers may choose to only include the Preface technology into their notebook designs in combination with notebooks planned for introduction with Microsoft’s Windows Vista. If the timing and introduction of Windows Vista or Windows Sideshow (a feature set in Microsoft Windows Vista) is delayed or does not happen when anticipated, then demand for Preface will be severely impaired. In addition, the development and introduction of a new technology platform such as Preface involves additional risks, including intellectual property risks as discussed above, the risk of product defects which in turn could harm our reputation, sales of our platforms and cause unexpected costs, and the reliance on third-party technology incorporated into the platform. If our Preface technology platform does not achieve market acceptance or is not otherwise successful, or if we encounter product defects or delays or other difficulties in the introduction, sales and marketing of this platform, our business and operating results may suffer. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict, and if we do not meet quarterly financial expectations, our stock price will likely decline. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and have in the past, and may in the future, fluctuate from quarter to quarter. It is possible that our operating results in some quarters will be below 10 Table of Contents market expectations or our guidance. This would likely cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly operating results are affected by a number of factors, including: • unpredictable volume and timing of customer orders, which are not fixed by contract but vary on a purchase order basis; • the loss of one or more key customers or the significant reduction or postponement of orders from these customers; • the timing of new product announcements or introductions by us, by Apple or by our competitors; • decreases in the overall average selling prices of our platforms; • changes in the relative sales mix of our platforms; • changes in our cost of finished goods; • the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of other components, such as hard disk drives or flash memory chips, used in our customers’ products; • our customers’ sales outlook, purchasing patterns and inventory adjustments based on consumer demands and general economic conditions; • unplanned additional expenses such as mask set revisions; • our effective tax rate and the use of available tax carryforwards; • product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions; and • our ability to successfully develop, introduce and sell new or enhanced platforms in a timely manner. We base our planned operating expenses in part on our expectations of future revenue, and a significant portion of our expenses is relatively fixed in the short term. As we are operating in a relatively new industry segment, we have limited historical financial data from which to predict future sales for our platforms. As a result, it is difficult for us to forecast our future revenue and budget our operating expenses accordingly. Our operating results would be adversely affected to the extent customer orders are cancelled or rescheduled. If revenue for a particular quarter is lower than we expect, we likely will be unable to proportionately reduce our operating expenses for that quarter, which would harm our operating results for that quarter. We have only recently achieved profitability and may incur losses in the future. We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue in the future to sustain profitability. At December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $14.0 million. Although we have achieved profitability in the past six quarters, we cannot be certain that we will sustain profitability in the future. To sustain profitability, we will need to continue to generate and grow our revenue to support an increase in expense levels. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis. If we do not sustain profitability or otherwise meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. Because the markets in which we compete are highly competitive and many of our competitors have greater resources than us, we may not be able to compete successfully and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. We face competition from a large number of competitors, including austriamicrosystems, Broadcom, Freescale Semiconductor, Intel, Samsung Semiconductor, Sharp, SigmaTel, Telechips, and Texas Instruments. We expect to face increased competition in the future. We may also face competition from some of our customers who have developed or may develop products or technologies internally which are competitive with our platforms, or who may enter into strategic relationships with or acquire existing semiconductor providers. In 11 Table of Contents addition, because our platforms are compatible with flash memory-based applications, we face competition from companies that produce platforms for both hard disk drive and flash memory-based applications. Many of our competitors have offered flash memory-specific products for some time and may have better established products or more expertise with flash memory-specific solutions. We may also face competition from companies whose products are included in end-products that also incorporate our platforms. Should these companies try to increase the presence of their products in such end-products to the detriment of our platforms, our business may be harmed. In addition, to the extent we move into adjacent markets such as wireless and mobile phones, we will face new competitors and the difficulty and cost of developing new technology. In addition, the consumer electronics market, which is the principal end-market for our platforms, has historically been subject to intense price competition. In many cases, low-cost, high-volume producers have entered this market and driven down gross margins. If a low-cost, high-volume producer should develop products that are competitive with our platforms, our sales and gross margins may suffer. For example, as the feature-rich personal media player market matures, the capabilities our platform solutions provide may be subject to commoditization, similar to the commoditization which has occurred in the more mature, non-feature-rich flash-based personal media player market. Similarly, we may lose existing customers if any of them go out of business or are unable to effectively compete in the highly competitive personal media player market. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, access to larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than us. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to changing customer demands or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products than we can. Our potential competitors may develop and introduce new products that have lower prices, provide superior performance, provide greater processing power or achieve greater market acceptance than our platforms. In addition, in the event of a manufacturing capacity shortage, these competitors may be able to obtain capacity when we are unable to do so. Our competitors may also be able to provide greater incentives to customers through rebates and marketing development funds and similar programs. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among existing competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share, which would harm our business. Some of our competitors with multiple product lines may bundle their products to lower prices or to offer a broader product portfolio or integrate processing capacity similar to or greater than ours into other products that we do not sell, which may make it difficult for us to gain or maintain market share. If we fail to compete successfully, our business would suffer and we may lose or be unable to gain market share. We believe that nearly all of our platforms sold to Inventec and Hon Hai are incorporated into various models within the Apple iPod product family. As a result, our business is also affected by competition in the market for personal media players. If competing products are not based on our platform solution it could harm our business and cause our revenue to decline. If we fail to adequately forecast demand for our platforms, we may incur product shortages or excess product inventory. Most of our revenue is derived from customers who require us to be able to provide products in excess of existing orders on relatively short notice. If these customers do not order more of our platforms than they forecast, then we could have excess inventory if we do not have other purchasers for this inventory. In this instance, we would be required to write-off excess inventory in accordance with our inventory policy. On the other hand, if we are unable to supply platforms at the levels required by Inventec or Hon Hai, our major customers, they are entitled to seek alternative supply arrangements to meet their needs. In the event of a supply shortage, we may be unable to meet the demands of our other customers. Any of these events could harm our operating results and our business. We may place binding manufacturing orders with our manufacturing logistics partners in advance of receiving purchase orders from our customers. Changes in forecasts or timing of orders expose us to risks of 12 Table of Contents inventory shortages or excess product inventory, particularly during end-product transitions. Obtaining additional supply in the face of increased demand or supply shortages may be costly or impossible, particularly in the short-term, which could prevent us from fulfilling orders. As a result, an incorrect forecast may result in substantial inventory that is aged and obsolete, which could result in write-downs of excess, aged or obsolete inventory. In addition, our platforms have rapidly declining average selling prices. Therefore, our failure to adequately estimate demand for our platforms could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. Because of the lengthy sales cycles for our platforms and the relatively fixed nature of a significant portion of our expenses, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue and may not ultimately achieve our forecasted sales for our platforms. Our sales cycles from design to manufacture of our platforms can typically take nine to 12 months. Sales cycles for our platforms are lengthy for a number of reasons, including: • our customers usually complete an in-depth technical evaluation of our platforms before they place a purchase order; • the commercial adoption of our platforms by original equipment manufacturers and original device manufacturers is typically limited during the initial release of their products to evaluate performance and consumer demand; • new product introductions often center around key trade shows and selling seasons and failure to deliver a product in a timely manner can seriously delay or cancel introduction; and • the development and commercial introduction of products incorporating complex technology frequently are delayed or canceled. As a result of our lengthy sales cycles, we may incur substantial expenses before we earn associated revenue because a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed and based on expected revenue. If customer cancellations or product changes occur, this could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our operating expenses. We are subject to the risk of supply problems with other components of the end products of our customers and if our customers cannot obtain sufficient supplies of these components, sales of our platforms could suffer. In addition to our platforms, the end products of our customers that are sold to consumers also incorporate other components outside of our control, such as hard disk drives or flash memory chips. If our customers cannot obtain sufficient supplies of these or other components, sales of our platforms could suffer because our customers may purchase fewer platforms from us than they would have otherwise purchased. For example, small form factor hard disk drive supply was constrained during 2003 and 2004. We believe that these supply constraints may have caused our customers to purchase fewer platforms than they might otherwise have purchased, thus negatively impacting our revenue. Although we cannot estimate the impact on our revenue from these supply constraints, we believe that future supply problems with the other components of the end products of our customers, including small form factor hard disk drives and flash memory chips, may negatively impact our business and revenue in the future. As a result, demand for our platforms depends on the availability of other components that we do not control. We depend on third-party service providers to implement certain aspects of the design of our semiconductors, and to manage our foundry, test, packaging, warehouse and shipping relationships. We primarily rely on third-party service providers, including eSilicon Corporation, or eSilicon, and LSI Logic Corporation, or LSI Logic, to implement certain aspects of the design of our semiconductors, and to 13 Table of Contents manage the manufacture, test, packaging, warehousing and shipping of our semiconductors. eSilicon and LSI Logic either provide these services directly or engage and manage other parties to provide them. As a result, we have significantly less control over certain aspects of the design and manufacture of our semiconductors and do not directly control our product delivery schedules, assembly and testing costs or quality assurance and control. We do not have long-term agreements with eSilicon or LSI Logic. We typically procure services from these suppliers on a purchase order basis. If the operations of eSilicon or LSI Logic were disrupted or their financial stability impaired, if eSilicon or LSI Logic were unable to properly manage the service providers that they retain for us or if they should choose not to devote capacity to our semiconductors in a timely manner, our business would suffer as we would be unable to produce finished platforms on a timely basis. Because we use manufacturing logistics partners who in turn use independent foundries and subcontractors to manufacture, assemble and test our semiconductors, we may face risks such as insufficient allocation of assembly and test capacity and limited control over the associated costs and semiconductor output, or yield. Damages to third-party facilities caused by natural or man-made disasters could result in the loss of production material and a disruption in the flow of material. In addition, the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry has periodically resulted in shortages of manufacturing assembly and test capacity and other disruptions of supply of raw materials incorporated into our SoCs, such as substrates. We may not be able to find sufficient suppliers at a reasonable price or at all if these disruptions occur. If we do not manage these risks adequately, our business and results of operations would be harmed. We have started to perform internally some of the services of our third-party service providers, we will need to devote a substantial amount of time and resources to this effort, and our relationships with such third-party service providers may be damaged. We have recently started to perform internally some of the services that our third-party service providers currently perform for us. These functions include direct engagements with foundries, setting up our own product and test engineering functions and managing the quality and failure analysis of our SoCs. In order to fully perform these services internally, we will need to incur a significant amount of expense to provide the necessary infrastructure to support these activities. We also will need to devote a substantial amount of time and resources to acquiring the necessary tools, implementing these activities into our overall company structure and hiring additional employees to manage the operations. In addition, we will most likely be required to invest a higher level of financial resources into inventory, increasing at a minimum our raw materials and work in process inventory levels. Because we have not previously performed such activities, we may not be able to successfully manage this process. This expansion could place significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and resources as we develop these capabilities in-house rather than relying on an experienced third-party provider. In addition, we may damage our relationships with our current third-party service providers if, on a larger scale, we begin performing some of their services internally. Any damage to these relationships could hinder our ability to procure our semiconductors on a timely and cost efficient basis, or at all, which could in turn harm our relationships with our customers and negatively affect our business and results of operations. Independent foundries manufacture the semiconductors used in our platforms, and any failure to obtain sufficient foundry capacity could significantly delay our ability to ship our platforms and damage our customer relationships. We do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility. Instead, we rely on third parties to manufacture our semiconductors. Two outside foundries, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, in Taiwan, and United Microelectronics Corporation, or UMC, in Taiwan, currently manufacture substantially all of our semiconductors, and no single foundry manufactures more than one model of our semiconductors. As a result, we face several significant risks, including: • lack of manufacturing capacity and higher wafer prices; 14 Table of Contents • limited control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and control, manufacturing yields and production costs; and • delays resulting from an inability to interchange production between different foundries. The ability of each foundry to provide us with semiconductors is limited by its available capacity. Neither we, nor our manufacturing logistics partners have a guaranteed level of production capacity with any of these foundries and it is difficult to accurately forecast our capacity needs. In addition, neither we nor our manufacturing logistics partners have long-term agreements with either of these foundries and place orders on a purchase order basis. We place our orders on the basis of our customers’ purchase orders and sales forecasts; however, the foundries can allocate capacity to the production of other companies’ products and reduce deliveries to our manufacturing logistics partners on short notice. It is possible that foundry customers that are larger and better financed than us or our manufacturing logistics partners, or that have long-term agreements with these foundries, may induce these foundries to reallocate capacity to them. Any reallocation could impair our ability to secure the supply of semiconductors that we need for our platforms. In addition, interruptions to the wafer manufacturing processes caused by a natural or man-made disaster could result in partial or complete disruption in supply until we or our manufacturing logistics partners are able to shift manufacturing to another fabrication facility. It may not be possible to obtain sufficient capacity or comparable production costs at another foundry. We might at any time decide to migrate our design methodology to a new third-party foundry which could result in increased costs, resources and development and customer qualification time for new or transferred products. Any reduction in the supply of semiconductors for our platforms could significantly delay our ability to ship our platforms and potentially damage our relationships with existing customers. If the foundries that manufacture our semiconductors do not achieve satisfactory yields or quality, our sales could decrease and our relationships with our customers and our reputation may be harmed. The manufacture of semiconductors is a highly complex process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yield and in some cases, cause production to be suspended or yield no output. The foundries that manufacture our semiconductors have from time to time experienced lower than anticipated manufacturing yields, including yields for our semiconductors. This often occurs during the production of new products or architectures or the installation and start-up of new process technologies or equipment. We may also experience yield problems as we migrate our manufacturing processes to smaller geometries. If the foundries that manufacture our semiconductors do not achieve planned yields, our product costs could increase, and product availability would decrease. Although to date we have not experienced unsatisfactory yields that have had a significant negative impact on our business, we believe we may face risks of unsatisfactory yields in the future. Our semiconductors are qualified with the foundries that manufacture our semiconductors, at which time a minimum acceptable yield is established. If actual yield is below the minimum, the foundry or our manufacturing logistics partner incurs the cost of the wafers. If actual yield is above the minimum, we may incur the cost of the wafers. The manufacturing yields for our new platforms tend to be lower initially. Our platform pricing is based on the assumption that an increase in manufacturing yields will continue, even with the increasing complexity of our semiconductors. Short product life cycles require us to quickly develop new platforms and to manufacture these platforms for short periods of time. In many cases, these short product life cycles will not lead to the higher manufacturing yields and declining costs typically associated with longer, high-volume manufacturing periods. As a result, if our foundries fail to deliver fabricated silicon wafers of satisfactory quality in the volume and at the price required, we will be unable to meet our customers’ demand for our platforms or to sell those platforms at an acceptable profit margin, which would adversely affect our sales and margins and damage our customer relationships. 15 Table of Contents Failure to comply with certain environmental regulations could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations governing the environment, including those restricting the presence of certain substances in electronic products and making producers of those products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which our customers may operate, including various European Union member countries. For example, the European Union has enacted the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive, which directs member states to enact laws, regulations, and administrative provisions to ensure that producers of electrical and electronic equipment are financially responsible for the collection, recycling, treatment, and environmentally sound disposal of certain products placed on the market after August 13, 2005, and from products in use prior to that date that are being replaced. In addition, the European Union has enacted the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or RoHS. RoHS prohibits the use of certain substances, including lead, in certain products put on the market after July 1, 2006. Similar legislation may be enacted in other locations where we sell our products, such as Japan. Our customers, regardless of their geographic locations, are likely to require full compliance with these regulations. We will need to ensure that we comply with such laws and regulations as they are enacted, and that our component suppliers also comply on a timely basis with such laws and regulations. If we are not in compliance with such legislation, our customers may refuse to purchase our products, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could incur substantial costs in connection with our compliance with such environmental laws and regulations, and we could also be subject to governmental fines and liability to our customers if we were found to be in violation of these laws. If we have to make significant capital expenditures to comply with environmental laws, or if we are subject to significant capital expenses in connection with a violation of these laws, our financial condition or operating results could suffer. The facilities of the independent foundries upon which we rely to manufacture our semiconductors are located in regions that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as geopolitical risk and social upheaval. The outside foundries and their subcontractors upon which we rely to manufacture all of our semiconductors are located in countries that are subject to earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as geopolitical risk and social upheaval. Two foundries, TSMC and UMC, both in Taiwan, currently manufacture substantially all of our semiconductors. Any earthquake or other natural disaster in Taiwan could materially disrupt these foundries’ production capabilities and could result in our experiencing a significant delay in delivery, or substantial shortage, of our platforms. In addition, some of these facilities are subject to risks associated with uncertain political, economic and other conditions in Asia, such as political turmoil in the region and the outbreak of epidemics such as avian flu or severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, which could disrupt the operation of these foundries and in turn harm our business. Increased instability in these regions may also negatively impact the desire of our employees and customers to travel and the reliability and cost of transportation, thus harming our business. Defects in our platforms could result in a decrease in customers and revenue, unexpected expenses and loss of market share. Our platforms are complex and must meet stringent quality requirements. Products as complex as ours may contain undetected hardware or software errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. For example, our platforms may contain errors that are not detected until after they are shipped because we cannot test for all possible scenarios. These errors could cause us to incur significant re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and significantly affect our customer relations and business reputation. If we deliver platforms with errors, defects or bugs, our credibility and the market acceptance and sales of our platforms could be harmed. Defects could also trigger 16 Table of Contents warranty obligations and lead to product liability as a result of lawsuits against us or against our customers. We have agreed to indemnify our customers in some circumstances against liability from defects in our platforms. A successful product liability claim against us could require us to make significant damage payments, which would negatively affect our financial results. In addition, we might incur additional costs to meet the specifications of our customers. We may not obtain sufficient patent protection, which could harm our competitive position and increase our expenses. Our success and ability to compete depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our proprietary technology. Our patent applications may not result in issued patents, and we cannot be certain that any issued patents will not be challenged, invalidated or declared unenforceable. Furthermore, any patents issued may provide only limited protection for our technology and the rights that may be granted under any future patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. For example, competitors could successfully challenge any issued patents or, alternatively, could develop similar technologies on their own or design around our patents. Also, patent protection in foreign countries may be limited or unavailable in areas where we would like to obtain this protection. It may be difficult for us to protect our intellectual property from misuse or infringement by other companies in these countries. For example, if our manufacturing logistics partners or the foundries which manufacture our semiconductors lose control of our intellectual property, it would be more difficult for us to take remedial measures because some of our foundries are located in countries that do not have the same protection for intellectual property that is provided in the United States. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights in some countries may harm our business. We also rely upon trademark, copyright and trade secret laws and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights, and, if these rights are not sufficiently protected, our ability to compete and generate revenue could suffer. We also rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, and contractual restrictions, such as confidentiality agreements and licenses, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We seek to protect our source and object codes for our software, and design code for our platforms, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws. We also typically require employees and consultants with access to our proprietary information to execute confidentiality agreements. The steps taken by us to protect our proprietary information may not be adequate to prevent misappropriation of our technology. In addition, our proprietary rights may not be adequately protected because: • laws and contractual restrictions may not prevent misappropriation of our technologies or deter others from developing similar technologies; and • policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and we may be unable to determine the extent of any unauthorized use. The laws of other countries in which we market our platforms, such as some countries in the Asia/Pacific region, may offer little or no protection for our proprietary technologies. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so. Any inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights could harm our ability to compete, generate revenue and to grow our business. Our intellectual property indemnification practices may adversely impact our business. We may be required to indemnify our customers and our third-party intellectual property providers for certain costs and damages of patent infringement in circumstances where our platforms are a factor creating the customer’s or these third-party providers’ infringement exposure. This practice may subject us to significant indemnification claims by our customers and our third-party providers. In some instances, our platforms are 17 Table of Contents designed for use in devices manufactured by our customers that comply with international standards, such as the MP3 compression standard. These international standards are often covered by patent rights held by third parties, which may include our competitors. The combined costs of identifying and obtaining licenses from all holders of patent rights essential to such international standards could be high and could reduce our profitability or increase our losses. The cost of not obtaining these licenses could also be high if a holder of the patent rights brings a claim for patent infringement. We are aware that some of our customers have received a notice from a third party seeking to grant a royalty bearing patent license to those customers and claiming that those customers’ manufacture and sale of products capable of decoding MP3 files violates patents which the third party has the right to enforce. In the contracts under which we distribute MP3 decoding products, we generally have agreed to indemnify our customers with respect to patent claims related to MP3 decoding technology. At least one of our key customers has requested indemnification relating to notices received from this third party. As we expand our technology platforms, we increase our exposure to claims for indemnification for patent infringement. For example, the Company has received a claim for indemnification from a customer based upon a notice of patent infringement received from a third party, unrelated to MP3 decoding products. We cannot assure you that additional claims for indemnification will not be made or that these claims would not harm our business, operating results or financial condition. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend and could result in our loss of significant rights. From time to time, we and our customers receive letters, including letters from various industry participants, alleging infringement of patents. Although we are not currently aware of any parties pursuing or intending to pursue infringement claims against us, we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to such claims in the future. In some cases, a company can avoid or settle litigation on favorable terms because it possesses patents that can be asserted against or licensed to the plaintiff. Due to the very limited number of patents that we hold (8 as of December 31, 2005), we would not be in a favorable bargaining position in these situations. Our third-party suppliers may also become subject to infringement claims, which in turn could negatively impact our business. We may also initiate claims to defend our intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert management’s attention from our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, our customers or our third-party intellectual property providers, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, develop non-infringing technology, stop selling products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis could harm our business. Also, we may be unaware of pending patent applications that relate to our platforms. Parties making infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction, which could prevent us from selling our platforms or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing intellectual property which could have a material negative effect on our business. Parties making infringement claims may also be able to bring an action before the International Trade Commission that could result in an order stopping the importation into the United States of our platforms. Our platforms incorporate third-party technology and if we were unable to continue to use this technology or if this technology is delayed or has defects, our business could suffer. We incorporate into our platforms third-party technology which we obtain pursuant to license and other agreements. We rely on third-party technology in our platforms and there may not be suitable alternate sources for this technology if we were to lose rights to use this technology. If these license or other agreements were terminated by the third parties or we otherwise lost rights to use this technology, this termination or loss could materially harm our business. In addition, if such third-party technology is delayed or has defects, we may not be able to incorporate it into our platforms and our business could suffer. 18 Table of Contents We have significant international activities and customers, and plan to continue these efforts, which subject us to additional business risks, including logistical complexity, political instability and currency fluctuations. Our sales to the Asia/Pacific region, including Japan, accounted for approximately 99.0%, 99.1% and 98.5% of our revenue in 2005, 2004 and 2003. We anticipate that a significant amount of our revenue will continue to be represented by sales to customers in that region. A large percentage of our sales outside the United States are made to original design manufacturer customers in Asia, who may ultimately sell their products to original equipment manufacturers outside of Asia. We also maintain an engineering facility in India, where we conduct a significant portion of our engineering activities, and may expand our international operations, such as in Asia. Increased instability in the Asia/Pacific region may adversely impact the desire of our employees and customers to travel, as well as the reliability and cost of transportation, which in turn would harm our business. Risks we face in conducting business internationally include: • multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations, export and import restrictions, employment laws, regulatory requirements and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; • difficulties and costs in staffing and managing foreign operations such as our engineering facility in India, as well as cultural differences; • trade restrictions or high tariffs that favor local competition in some countries; • laws and business practices favoring local companies; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights, for example, in China; • inadequate local infrastructure; • financial risks, such as longer sales and payment cycles, greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange and rate fluctuations; • failure by us or our customers to gain regulatory approval for use of our platforms; and • political and economic instability, including wars, acts of terrorism, political unrest, a recurrence of avian flu or SARS outbreaks in Asia, boycotts, curtailments of trade and other business restrictions. Specifically, in the Asia/Pacific region, we face risks associated with a recurrence of avian flu or SARS, tensions between countries in that region, such as political tensions between China and Taiwan and the ongoing discussions with North Korea regarding its nuclear weapons program, potentially reduced protection for intellectual property rights, government-fixed foreign exchange rates, relatively uncertain legal systems and developing telecommunications infrastructures. In addition, some countries in this region, such as China, have adopted laws, regulations and policies which impose additional restrictions on the ability of foreign companies to conduct business in that country or otherwise place them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to domestic companies. To date, all of our sales to international customers and purchases of components from international suppliers have been denominated in U.S. dollars. As a result, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could make our platforms more expensive for our international customers, thus potentially leading to a reduction in our sales and profitability. Furthermore, many of our competitors are foreign companies that could benefit from such a currency fluctuation, making it more difficult for us to compete with those companies. To date, we have not experienced any significant reductions in sales and profitability as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. However, we believe that we may have continued risks associated with such currency fluctuations in the future. 19 Table of Contents Our business will suffer if we cannot meet increases in demand due to seasonality. Because our platforms are designed for use in consumer electronic products, such as personal media players, our business is subject to seasonality, with increased revenue typically in the third and fourth quarters of each year, when customers place orders to meet year-end holiday demand, and lower revenue in the first and second quarters of each year. However, our recent revenue growth makes it difficult for us to accurately assess the impact of seasonal factors on our business. If we or our customers are unable to forecast the impact of seasonality on the end user demand for portable media players, our sales and operating results would suffer. The average selling prices of our platforms have historically decreased and will likely do so in the future, which could harm our revenue and gross profits. The average selling price of consumer electronics products historically have declined significantly over a product’s life. As a result, in the past, we have reduced the average selling prices of our platforms in anticipation of future competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and other factors. We expect that we will have to similarly reduce prices in the future for mature products. In addition, a reduction in our average selling prices to one or more customers could also impact our average selling prices to other customers. A decline in overall average selling prices would harm our gross margins, and we have and may in the future enter into agreements providing for maximum prices that would limit our gross margins. Our financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volumes, reducing our costs, adding new features to our existing platforms or developing new or enhanced platforms or products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross margins. Because competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry, we may not be able to recruit and retain necessary personnel, which could negatively impact the development and sales of our platforms. We rely heavily on the services of our key executive officers, including Gary Johnson, our President and Chief Executive Officer. In addition, our technical personnel represent a significant asset and serve as the source of our technological and product innovations. We believe our future success will depend upon our ability to retain these key employees and our ability to attract and retain other skilled managerial, engineering and sales and marketing personnel. Any of our current employees, including our senior management, may terminate their employment with us at any time. In addition, we have an engineering facility in India, where the employee turnover rate has traditionally been significantly higher than in the United States. The competition for qualified personnel is intense in our industry. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining sufficient numbers of qualified personnel to support our anticipated growth. The loss of any of our key employees or our inability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including engineers, could delay the development and introduction of, and negatively impact our ability to sell, our platforms. We may also incur increased operating expenses and be required to divert the attention of other senior executives to recruit replacements for the loss of any key personnel. Our headquarters are located in California and, as a result, are subject to earthquakes and other catastrophes. Our business operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our facilities, computer systems and personnel, which are primarily located in San Jose, California. San Jose is situated on or near known earthquake fault zones. Should an earthquake or other catastrophe, such as a fire, flood, power loss, communication failure or similar event, disable our facilities, we do not have readily available alternative facilities from which to conduct our business. Changes in our tax rates could affect our future results. Our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in the mix of our earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and 20 Table of Contents liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. These factors may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The outcomes of these examinations, if they occur, could result in an adjustment to our tax provision, which could harm our net income and financial condition. Changes to financial accounting standards may affect our results of operations and cause us to change our business practices. We prepare our financial statements to conform with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in those policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before a change is announced. Changes to those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, accounting policies affecting many aspects of our business, including rules relating to employee stock option grants, have recently been revised. The Financial Accounting Standards Board and other agencies have made changes to U.S. GAAP that will require us, starting in our first quarter of 2006, to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. We will have significant and ongoing accounting charges resulting from option grant and other equity incentive expensing that will reduce our overall net income. In addition, since we historically have used equity-related compensation as a component of our total employee compensation program, the accounting change could make the use of equity-related compensation less attractive to us and therefore make it more difficult to attract and retain employees. We are exposed to risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate their internal controls. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires our management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting, commencing with our annual report for the year ended December 31, 2005. As a result, we are experiencing increased expense and have devoted additional management resources to Section 404 compliance. We have completed our assessment and obtained our independent registered public accounting firm’s attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. In future years, if we fail to timely complete this assessment, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot timely attest to our assessment, we could be subject to regulatory sanctions and a loss of public confidence in our internal control. In addition, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to timely meet our regulatory reporting obligations. In the future, if our chief executive officer, chief financial officer or independent registered public accounting firm determines that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective as defined under Section 404, investor perceptions of our company may be adversely affected and could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. The demand for personal media players is affected by general economic conditions, which could impact our business. The United States and international economies have from time to time experienced a period of slow economic growth. In particular, terrorist acts and similar events, turmoil in the Middle East or war in general, and rising oil prices could contribute to a slowdown of the market demand for luxury consumer electronic products, including demand for personal media players. If the economic growth slows down as a result of the recent economic, political and social turmoil, or if there are further terrorist attacks in the United States or elsewhere, we may experience decreases in the demand for our platforms, which may harm our operating results. Our business has been adversely affected by previous economic downturns. For example, during the global economic 21 Table of Contents downturn in 2002 to 2003, demand for many semiconductor and consumer electronics products suffered as consumers delayed purchasing decisions or changed or reduced their discretionary spending. As a result, demand for our products suffered and we had to implement headcount reductions and restructuring initiatives to align our corporate spending with a slower than anticipated revenue growth during that timeframe. If the personal media player market does not continue to grow, our operating results will suffer. Our platforms are primarily designed for use in feature-rich personal media players that aim to provide consumers with the ability to capture, store and play audio, photo or video content. The success of our platforms depends in part on consumers’ desire to purchase personal media players that integrate a variety of media, as well as on other companies’ willingness to design and produce personal media players and provide the necessary content. The continued growth of the personal media player market will depend in part on: • their price; • their functionality and quality; • the availability of downloadable content; • consumer demands and preferences; • support for a broad range of digital media compression standards; and • the development of digital rights management standards to enable the sophisticated protection of the intellectual property rights of others. If the personal media player market fails to continue to grow for any reason, we may not be able to generate significant revenue from the sales of our platforms, and our financial results would suffer. In addition, if competing devices such as mobile phones become able to perform many of the functions of personal media players, such competing devices may reduce the market for personal media players. If we are unable to adapt our platforms for incorporation into these devices, our sales and financial results would suffer. We currently sell platforms primarily for feature-rich personal media players and sales of our platforms may decline if consumer preferences shift away from such feature-rich devices. One of the main competitive advantages of feature-rich personal media players is that they provide the consumer with a variety of media content and feature options. Our business strategy assumes that a substantial portion of consumers will want personal media players that provide a large number of features and access to a very large number of songs or photos or to very memory intensive content, such as video. If consumers are unwilling to carry very large libraries of music or photos or very memory-intensive content, or are unwilling to pay the higher costs associated with more feature-rich devices, then demand for our platforms may decrease, which would negatively affect the sales of our platforms and our revenue for those platforms accordingly. The industry standards in the personal media player market are continually evolving, and our success depends on our ability to adapt our platforms to meet these changing industry standards. Our ability to compete depends on our ability to adapt our platforms to support relevant industry standards, such as compression algorithms, digital rights management and delivery standards. We may be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our platforms to address relevant standards. If our platforms do not meet relevant industry standards for a significant period of time, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins. 22 Table of Contents The emergence of alternative models for downloading digital music content may impact our business in ways we cannot anticipate. Currently, most purchased music content is available through a pay-per-download model in which consumers purchase and own the song file, which they can download and play on their personal media player. In 2004, Microsoft introduced its digital rights management software, which is designed to provide personal media players access to music content on a subscription basis in which consumers can pay a subscription fee to rent, rather than own, the song file. We cannot predict the impact on our business should this or other similar technology or other content distribution models become widely adopted. In addition, to the extent other providers of digital content or providers of platforms or components for personal media players take market share away from Apple’s iPod and iTunes products and services, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our ability to expand our business depends on the availability of digital content. The demand for portable audio and video products may be adversely impacted by the adoption or enforcement of limits on file sharing and downloadable music and video or new copy protection techniques. It is still unclear how the access and distribution of video content will be regulated. Owners of digital content rights may seek to restrict uses of digital content, attempt to block new functionalities through lawsuits or additional regulation, or attempt to renegotiate terms of existing licenses, any of which could limit the availability of digital content. If music or video content is not readily available, the demand for personal media players that use our platforms may decline, which in turn could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price may decline because of stock market fluctuations that affect the prices of technology stocks. A decline in our stock price may lead to securities class action litigation against us that could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and harm our business. The stock market has experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations that have adversely affected the market prices of common stock of technology companies. These broad market fluctuations may reduce the market price of our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock may be affected by other factors outside our control such as developments or announcements affecting our industry, Apple or our competitors. For example, during the time in which our common stock has been publicly traded, the sale prices of our common stock as reported on The NASDAQ National Market ranged from $33.45 on November 29, 2004 to $15.59 on April 22, 2005. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against a company after periods of volatility in the market price of its securities, and in the future, we may be a target of similar litigation. Any lawsuits to which we become a party, whether ultimately resolved in our favor or not, may not be resolved quickly, and coverage limits of our insurance or our ability to pay such amounts may not be adequate to cover the fees and expenses and any ultimate resolution associated with such litigation. The size of these payments, if any, individually or in the aggregate, could seriously impair our cash reserves and financial condition. The defense of these lawsuits also could result in continued diversion of our management’s time and attention away from business operations, which could cause our financial results to decline. A failure to resolve definitively any future material litigation in which we are involved or in which we may become involved in the future, regardless of the merits of the respective cases, could also cast doubt as to our prospects in the eyes of customers, potential customers, analysts and investors, which could cause our revenues and stock price to decline. In addition, the anti-takeover provisions we have adopted in the past, such as prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, or may adopt in the future, may be perceived negatively by the market causing a decline in our stock price or litigation against us. 23 Table of Contents Our ability to raise capital in the future when needed could prevent us from executing our growth strategy. We believe that our existing cash and short-term investments and additional amounts available under our bank line of credit will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. The timing and amount of our working capital and capital expenditure requirements may vary significantly depending on numerous factors, including: • market acceptance of our platforms; • the need to adapt to changing technologies and technical requirements; • the existence of opportunities for expansion; and • access to and availability of sufficient management, technical, marketing and financial personnel. If our capital resources are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity securities or debt securities or obtain other debt financing. The sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Additional debt would result in increased expenses and could result in covenants that would restrict our operations. There is no assurance that financing, if required, will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may be unable to consummate future potential acquisitions or investments or successfully integrate acquired businesses or investments or foreign operations with our business, which may disrupt our business, divert management’s attention and slow our ability to expand the range of our technologies and products. We intend to continue to expand the range of our technologies and products, and we may acquire or make investments in additional complementary businesses, technologies or products, if appropriate opportunities arise. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates at reasonable prices or on reasonable terms, or consummate future acquisitions or investments, each of which could slow our growth strategy. We have no prior history or experience in investing in or acquiring and integrating complementary businesses and therefore may have difficulties completing such transactions or realizing the benefits of such transactions, or they may have a negative effect on our business. Such investments or acquisitions could require us to devote a substantial amount of time and resources and could place a significant strain on our management and personnel. To finance any acquisitions, we may choose to issue shares of our common stock, which would dilute your interest in us. Any future acquisitions by us also could result in significant write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. If securities or industry analysts downgrade their recommendations regarding our stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock is influenced by research and reports published by industry or securities analysts regarding us, our business or our industry. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Delaware law and our corporate charter and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. These provisions include the following: • the right of the board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors; 24 Table of Contents • the prohibition of cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • the requirement for advance notice for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting; • the ability of the board of directors to alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval; • the ability of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock with terms set by the board of directors, which rights could be senior to those of common stock; • the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or amend or repeal the provisions of our certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors and the ability of stockholders to take action; • the required approval of holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to remove directors without cause; and • the elimination of the right of stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders and to take action by written consent. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us. These provisions in our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and under Delaware law could discourage potential takeover attempts and could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than they would without these provisions. In addition, we may adopt additional antitakeover measures in the future, including the adoption of a stockholder rights plan. We incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also expect these rules and regulations to make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 