Item 1A. Risk Factors Rising interest rates may hurt our profits and asset values. If interest rates rise, our net interest income would likely decline in the short term since, due to the generally shorter terms of interest-bearing liabilities, interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, increases more quickly than interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investments. In addition, a continuation of rising interest rates may hurt our income because of reduced demand for new loans, the demand for refinancing loans and the interest and fee income earned on new loans and refinancings. While we believe that modest interest rate increases will not significantly hurt our interest rate spread over the long term due to our high level of liquidity and the presence of a significant amount of adjustable-rate mortgage loans in our loan portfolio, interest rate increases may initially reduce our interest rate spread until such time as our loans and investments reprice to higher levels. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, and in particular our securities portfolio. Generally, the value of fixed-rate securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as separate components of equity. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale resulting from increases in interest rates therefore could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. A larger percentage of our loans are collateralized by real estate and further disruptions in the real estate market may result in losses and hurt our earnings. Approximately 95.3% of our loan portfolio at June 30, 2013 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. The declining economic conditions have caused a decrease in demand for real estate, which has resulted in an erosion of some real estate values in our markets. Further disruptions in the real estate market could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline further, it will become more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values, we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Strong competition within our market areas could hurt our profits and slow growth. Although we consider ourselves competitive in our market areas, we face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in our earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability will depend upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market areas. 18 The distressed economy in First Federal of Hazard’s market area could hurt our profits and slow our growth. First Federal of Hazard’s market area consists of Perry and surrounding counties in eastern Kentucky. The economy in this market area has been distressed in recent years due to the decline in the coal industry on which the economy has been dependent. While the region has seen improvement in the economy from the influx of other industries, such as health care and manufacturing, and the competition provided by new methods of extracting natural gas has recently hurt the coal industry. As a consequence, the economy in First Federal of Hazard’s market area continues to lag behind the economies of Kentucky and the United States and First Federal of Hazard has experienced insufficient loan demand in its market area. While First Federal of Hazard will seek to use excess funds to purchase loans from First Federal of Frankfort, we expect the redeployment of funds from securities into loans to take several years. Moreover, the slow economy in First Federal of Hazard’s market area will limit our ability to grow our asset base in that market. Regulation of the financial services industry is undergoing major changes and future legislation could increase our cost of doing business or harm our competitive position. In 2010 and 2011, in response to the financial crisis and recession that began in 2008, significant regulatory and legislative changes resulted in broad reform and increased regulation impacting financial institutions. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) has created a significant shift in the way financial institutions operate. The Dodd-Frank Act also creates a new federal agency to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the statute are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased regulatory burden and compliance costs. Any future legislative changes could have a material impact on our profitability, the value of assets held for investment or collateral for loans. Future legislative changes could require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses and potentially expose us to additional costs, liabilities, enforcement action and reputational risk. In addition to the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the federal regulatory agencies have taken stronger supervisory actions against financial institutions that have experienced increased loan losses and other weaknesses as a result of the recent economic crisis. The actions include entering into written agreements and cease and desist orders that place certain limitations on operations. Federal bank regulators have also been using with more frequency their ability to impose individual minimal capital requirements on banks, which requirements may be higher than those required under the Dodd-Frank Act or that would otherwise qualify First Federal of Hazard and First Federal of Frankfort as being “well capitalized” under applicable prompt corrective action regulations. If we were to become subject to a supervisory agreement or higher individual minimum capital requirements, such action may have a negative impact on our ability to execute our business plans, as well as our ability to grow, pay dividends or engage in mergers and acquisitions and may result in restrictions in our operations. Additionally, in early July 2013, the Federal Reserve approved revisions to their capital adequacy guidelines and prompt corrective action rules that implement the revised standards of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, commonly called Basel III, and address relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. Basel III and the regulations of the federal banking agencies require bank holding companies and banks to undertake significant activities to demonstrate compliance with the new and higher capital standards, Compliance with these rules will impose additional costs on Kentucky First, First Federal of Hazard and First Federal of Frankfort. 19 We expect that our return on equity will be low compared to other companies as a result of our high level of capital. Return on average equity, which equals net income divided by average equity, is a ratio used by many investors to compare the performance of a particular company with other companies. For the year ended June 30, 2013, our return on average equity was 4.70%. We also intend to continue managing excess capital through our stock repurchase program, which has been successful, given relatively low market prices of the Company’s common stock. However, this program could be curtailed or rendered less effective if the market price of our stock increases, or if the Company’s liquid funds are deployed elsewhere. Our goal of generating a return on average equity that is competitive with other publicly-held subsidiaries of mutual holding companies, by increasing earnings per share and book value per share, without assuming undue risk, could take a number of years to achieve, and we cannot assure that our goal will be attained. Consequently, you should not expect a competitive return on average equity in the near future. Failure to achieve a competitive return on average equity might make an investment in our common stock unattractive to some investors and might cause our common stock to trade at lower prices than comparable companies with higher returns on average equity. Additional annual employee compensation and benefit expenses may reduce our profitability and stockholders’ equity. We will continue to recognize employee compensation and benefit expenses for employees and executives under our benefit plans. With regard to the employee stock ownership plan, applicable accounting practices require that the expense be based on the fair market value of the shares of common stock at specific points in the future, therefore we will recognize expenses for our employee stock ownership plan when shares are committed to be released to participants’ accounts. We will also recognize expenses for restricted stock awards and options over the vesting periods of those awards. In addition, employees of both subsidiary Banks participate in a defined-benefit plan through Pentegra. Costs associated with the defined-benefit plans could increase or legislation could be enacted that would increase the Banks’ obligations under the plan or change the methods the Banks use in accounting for the plans. Those changes could adversely affect personnel expense and the Company’s balance sheet. First Federal MHC owns a majority of our common stock and is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders, including preventing sale or merger transactions you may like or a second-step conversion by First Federal MHC. First Federal MHC owns a majority of our common stock and, through its Board of Directors, is able to exercise voting control over most matters put to a vote of stockholders. As a federally chartered mutual holding company, the board of directors of First Federal MHC must ensure that the interests of depositors of First Federal of Hazard are represented and considered in matters put to a vote of stockholders of Kentucky First. Therefore, the votes cast by First Federal MHC may not be in your personal best interests as a stockholder. For example, First Federal MHC may exercise its voting control to prevent a sale or merger transaction in which stockholders could receive a premium for their shares, prevent a second-step conversion transaction by First Federal MHC or defeat a stockholder nominee for election to the Board of Directors of Kentucky First. However, implementation of a stock-based incentive plan will require approval of Kentucky First’s stockholders other than First Federal MHC. Federal Reserve Board regulations would likely prevent an acquisition of Kentucky First other than by another mutual holding company or a mutual institution. There may be a limited market for our common stock which may lower our stock price. Although our shares of common stock are listed on the Nasdaq Global Market, there is no guarantee that the shares will be regularly traded. If an active trading market for our common stock does not develop, you may not be able to sell all of your shares of common stock on short notice and the sale of a large number of shares at one time could temporarily depress the market price. 20 Our ability to pay dividends is subject to the ability of First Federal of Hazard and First Federal of Frankfort to make capital distributions to Kentucky First and the waiver of dividends by First Federal MHC. Our long-term ability to pay dividends to our stockholders is based primarily upon the ability of the Banks to make capital distributions to Kentucky First, and also on the availability of cash at the holding company level in the event earnings are not sufficient to pay dividends according to the cash dividend payout policy. Under Office of the Comptroller of the Currency safe harbor regulations, the Banks may each distribute to Kentucky First capital not exceeding net retained income for the current calendar year and the prior two calendar years. First Federal MHC owns a majority of Kentucky First’s outstanding stock. First Federal MHC has historically waived its right to dividends on the Kentucky First common shares it owns, in which case the amount of dividends paid to public stockholders is significantly higher than it would be if First Federal MHC accepted dividends. First Federal MHC is not required to waive dividends, but Kentucky First expects this practice to continue, subject to member and regulatory approval annually. First Federal MHC is required to obtain a waiver from the Federal Reserve Board allowing it to waive its right to dividends. The Federal Reserve Board in 2011 issued regulations that govern the activities of Kentucky First and First Federal MHC and the regulations were implemented in the fourth quarter of 2011. Under Section 239.8(d) of the Federal Reserve Board’s Regulation MM governing dividend waivers, a mutual holding company may waive its right to dividends on shares of its subsidiary if the mutual holding company gives written notice of the waiver to the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Board does not object. For a company such as First Federal MHC that waived dividends prior to December 1, 2009, the Federal Reserve Board may not object to a dividend waiver if such waiver would not be detrimental to the safety and soundness of the savings association subsidiary and the board of directors of the mutual holding company expressly determines that such dividend waiver is consistent with the board’s fiduciary duties to the members of the mutual holding company. To address concerns with respect to the conflict of interest created by dividend waivers, Regulation MM requires the board of directors of the mutual holding company to adopt a resolution that describes the conflict of interest that exists because of a director’s ownership of stock in the subsidiary declaring the dividends and any actions the mutual holding company board have taken to eliminate the conflict of interest, such as the directors’ waiving their right to receive dividends. Also, the resolution must contain an affirmation that a majority of the mutual members eligible to vote have, within the 12 months prior to the declaration date of the dividend, voted to approve the waiver of dividends. Federal MHC has received Federal Reserve Board approval to waive quarterly dividends totaling $0.40 per share annually beginning with the dividend paid on September 28, 2012 and continuing through the dividend payable in the 3rd quarter of 2014. It is expected that First Federal MHC will continue to waive future dividends, except to the extent dividends are needed to fund First Federal MHC’s continuing operations, subject to the ability of First Federal MHC to obtain regulatory approval of its requests to waive dividends and to its ability to obtain member approval of dividend waivers. We cannot predict whether members will continue to approve annual dividend waiver requests or whether the Federal Reserve Board will grant future dividend waiver requests and, if granted, there can be no assurance as to the conditions, if any, the Federal Reserve Board will place on future dividend waiver requests by grandfathered mutual holding companies such as First Federal MHC. If First Federal MHC is unable to waive the receipt of dividends, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders may be substantially impaired and the amounts of any such dividends may be significantly reduced. With respect to the merger of CKF Bancorp, Inc. and Kentucky First may be unable to successfully integrate CKF Bancorp, Inc.’s operations and retain CKF Bancorp, Inc.’s employees. The merger between Kentucky First and CKF Bancorp, Inc., which was completed on December 31, 2012, involved the integration of two companies that previously operated independently. The difficulties of combining the operations of the two companies include: · integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds; · combining different corporate cultures; and · retaining key employees. 21 The ongoing process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of the business and the loss of key personnel. The integration of the two companies requires the experience and expertise of certain key employees of CKF Bancorp, Inc. who are expected to be retained by Kentucky First. Kentucky First may not be successful in retaining these employees for the time period necessary to successfully integrate CKF Bancorp, Inc.’s operations with those of Kentucky First. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the merger and the integration of the two companies’ operations could have an adverse effect on the business and results of operations of Kentucky First in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 