Item 1A. Risk Factors This report and other documents we file with the SEC contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about us, our future performance, our business or others acting on our behalf, our beliefs and our management’s assumptions. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties facing our business. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. Our business is also subject to the risks that affect many other companies, such as general economic conditions and geopolitical events. Further, additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Our success is primarily dependent on audience acceptance of our films, which is extremely difficult to predict and, therefore, inherently risky. We cannot predict the economic success of any of our motion pictures because the revenue derived from the distribution of a motion picture (which does not necessarily directly correlate with 13 the production or distribution costs incurred) depends primarily upon its acceptance by the public, which cannot be accurately predicted. The economic success of a motion picture also depends upon the public’s acceptance of competing films, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure-time activities, general economic conditions and other tangible and intangible factors, all of which can change and cannot be predicted with certainty. Furthermore, part of the appeal of CG (“computer-generated”) animated films such as ours may be due to their relatively recent introduction to the market. We cannot assure you that the introduction of new animated filmmaking techniques, an increase in the number of CG animated films or the resurgence in popularity of older animated filmmaking techniques will not adversely affect the popularity of CG animated films. In general, the economic success of a motion picture is dependent on its theatrical performance, which is a key factor in predicting revenue from other distribution channels and is largely determined by our ability to produce content and develop stories and characters that appeal to a broad audience and by the effective marketing of the motion picture. If we are unable to accurately judge audience acceptance of our film content or to have the film effectively marketed, the commercial success of the film will be in doubt, which could result in costs not being recouped or anticipated profits not being realized. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any particular feature film will generate enough revenue to offset its distribution, fulfillment services and marketing costs, in which case we would not receive any net revenues for such film from Paramount. In the past, some of our films have not recovered their production costs, after recoupment of marketing, fulfillment services and distribution costs, in an acceptable timeframe or at all. Our business is currently substantially dependent upon the success of a limited number of film releases each year and the unexpected delay or commercial failure of any one of them could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Historically our business plan has been to release two animated feature films per year. In 2009, we announced that, beginning in 2010, we expect to release five animated feature films every two years. The unexpected delay in release or commercial failure of just one of these films could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations in both the year of release and in the future. Historically, feature films that are successful in the domestic theatrical market are generally also successful in the international theatrical, home entertainment and television markets, although each film is different and there is no way to guarantee such results. If our films fail to achieve domestic box office success, their international box office and home entertainment success and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, we can make no assurances that the historical correlation between domestic box office results and international box office and home entertainment results will continue in the future. In fact, over the last several years domestic theatrical results and foreign theatrical results have become less directly correlated than in the past. While we have generally seen growth in our foreign theatrical results, it has come in countries where the home entertainment market is not as robust as in the United States or Western Europe. 14 Our home entertainment business is currently experiencing significant changes as a result of rapid technological change and shifting consumer preferences and behavior. We cannot predict the effect that these changes and shifting preferences will have on the revenue from and profitability of our films. During the last 10 years, a significant amount of our revenues and profitability have resulted from sales of DVDs in the home entertainment market. Since 2005, there has been a general decline in both the number of DVD units sold and the profitability of such units, and such decline accelerated during 2010. We believe that this decline is a result of various technological advances and changes in consumer preferences and behavior. Consumers (especially children) are spending an increasing amount of time on the Internet and mobile devices, and technology in these areas continues to evolve rapidly. In addition, consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time-delayed or on-demand basis from the Internet, on their televisions and on handheld or portable devices. As a result, we cannot assure you that consumers will continue to use the DVD format for their home entertainment. We must adapt our businesses to changing consumer behavior and preferences and exploit new distribution channels or find new and enhanced ways to deliver our films in the home entertainment market. There can be no assurances that we will be able to do so or that we will be able to achieve historical revenues or margin levels in such business. During 2010, three large retailers, Walmart, Target and Best Buy, accounted for approximately 53% of the Company’s domestic DVD sales. If these and other retailers’ support of the DVD format decreases, the Company’s results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our operating results fluctuate significantly. We continue to expect significant fluctuations in our future quarterly and annual operating results because of a variety of factors, including the following: • the potential varying levels of success of our feature films and other entertainment; • the timing of the domestic and international theatrical releases and home entertainment release of our feature films; • our distribution arrangements with Paramount, which cause us to recognize significantly less revenue from a film in the period of a film’s initial theatrical release than we would absent these agreements; and • the timing of development expenses and varying levels of success of our new business ventures. We currently operate principally in one business, the production of animated family entertainment, and our lack of a diversified business could adversely affect us. Unlike most of the major studios, which are part of large diversified corporate groups with a variety of other operations, we currently depend primarily on the success of our feature films and other properties. For example, unlike us, many of the major studios are part of corporate groups that include television networks and cable channels that can provide stable sources of earnings and cash flows that offset fluctuations in the financial performance of their feature films. We, on the other hand, currently derive substantially all of our revenue from a single source—our animated family entertainment—and our lack of a diversified business model could adversely affect us if our feature films or other properties fail to perform to our expectations. 15 The Company has recently developed and is currently in the process of developing a number of projects that are not feature films, which will involve upfront and ongoing expenses and may not ultimately be successful. As part of the Company’s plan of diversifying its revenue sources, the Company has recently produced and is currently developing a number of projects that are not feature films. These projects include several live shows, animated television specials and series and an online virtual world. Some of these new businesses are inherently riskier than the Company’s traditional animated feature film business. These projects also require varying amounts of upfront and ongoing expenditures, some of which are or may be significant, and may place a strain on the Company’s management resources. While the Company currently believes that it has adequate sources of capital to fund these development and operating expenditures, there can be no assurances that such resources will be available to the Company. Further, to the extent that the Company needs to hire additional personnel to develop or oversee these projects, the Company may be unable to hire talented individuals. Finally, we cannot provide any assurances that all or any of these projects will ultimately be completed or, if completed, successful. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Shrek The Musical touring show and the Kung Fu Panda online virtual world did not achieve the operating results that had been expected. As a result, during the fourth quarter of 2010, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $11.9 million related to the online virtual world and $7.9 million related to the touring show. Animated films are expensive to produce and the uncertainties inherent in their production could result in the expenditure of significant amounts on films that are abandoned or significantly delayed. Animated films are expensive to produce. The production, completion and distribution of animated feature films is subject to a number of uncertainties, including delays and increased expenditures due to creative problems, technical difficulties, talent availability, accidents, natural disasters or other events beyond our control. Because of these uncertainties, the projected costs of an animated feature film at the time it is set for production may increase, the date of completion may be substantially delayed or the film may be abandoned due to the exigencies of production. In extreme cases, a film in production may be abandoned or significantly modified (including as a result of creative changes) after substantial amounts have been spent, causing the write-off of expenses incurred with respect to the film. Animated films typically take longer to produce than live-action films, which increases the uncertainties inherent in their production and distribution. Animated feature films typically take three to four years (or longer) to produce after the initial development stage, as opposed to an average of 12 to 18 months for live-action films. The additional time that it takes to produce and release an animated feature film increases the risk that our films in production will fall out of favor with target audiences and that competing films will be released in advance of or concurrently with ours, either of which risks could reduce the demand for or popular appeal of our films. 16 The production and marketing of animated feature films and other properties is capital-intensive and our capacity to generate cash from our films may be insufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements. The costs to develop, produce and market a film are substantial. In 2010, for example, we spent approximately $323.1 million to fund production costs (excluding overhead expense) and to make contingent compensation and residual payments. For the year ending December 31, 2011, we expect our commitments to fund production costs (excluding overhead expense) and to make contingent compensation and residual payments (on films released to date) will be approximately $397.0 million. Although we retain the right to exploit each of the films that we have previously released, the size of our film library is insubstantial compared to the film libraries of the major United States (“U.S.”) movie studios, which typically have the ability to exploit hundreds of library titles. Library titles can provide a stable source of earnings and cash flows that offset fluctuations in the financial performance of newly released films. Many of the major studios use these cash flows, as well as cash flows from their other businesses, to finance the production and marketing of new feature films. We are not able to rely on such cash flows and are required to fund our films in development and production and other commitments with cash retained from operations, the proceeds of films that are generating revenue from theatrical, home entertainment and ancillary markets and borrowings under our $125 million revolving credit facility. If our films fail to perform, we may be forced to seek substantial sources of outside financing. Such financing may not be available in sufficient amounts for us to continue to make substantial investments in the production of new animated feature films or may be available only on terms that are disadvantageous to us, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our growth or our business. The costs of producing and marketing our feature films have steadily increased and may increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for a film to generate a profit or compete against other films. The production and marketing of theatrical feature films require substantial capital and the costs of producing and marketing feature films have generally increased in recent years. These costs may continue to increase in the future, which may make it more difficult for our films to generate a profit or compete against other films. Historically, production costs and marketing costs have risen at a rate faster than increases in either domestic admission to movie theaters or admission ticket prices. A continuation of this trend would leave us more dependent for revenue from other media, such as home entertainment, television, international markets and new media. Our decision to produce all of our films in stereoscopic 3D may lead to decreased profitability of our films. We released our first 3D film, Monsters vs. Aliens in 2009. We expect that all of our future films will also be released in stereoscopic 3D. The Company has implemented a number of changes to its production processes in order to produce stereoscopic 3D films. These changes have increased the costs of producing our films, which may make it more difficult for a film to generate a profit. There are currently a limited number of movie theaters that are capable of screening films in stereoscopic 3D. Additionally, other entertainment companies are planning to release films in stereoscopic 3D, which has increased the competition for 3D screens. While the number of 3D-capable movie theaters has increased significantly and we believe will continue to increase over time, the costs to theater 17 owners of purchasing 3D screening equipment may slow this increase, especially if theater owners are concerned about the availability of sufficient 3D titles to justify the expense. Finally, there have been limited sales of televisions and DVD players capable of displaying stereoscopic 3D images. While we believe that consumers find the 3D movie experience to be at least as enjoyable as the two-dimensional experience, there can be no assurances that a sufficient number of consumers will be willing to pay higher prices for stereoscopic 3D films and DVDs, which may make it more difficult for us to recover the higher production costs. We compete for audiences based on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The number of animated and live-action feature films released by competitors, particularly the major U.S. motion picture studios, may create an oversupply of product in the market and may make it more difficult for our films to succeed. In particular, we compete directly against other animated films and family-oriented live-action films. Oversupply of such products (especially of high-profile “event” films such as ours) may become most pronounced during peak release times, such as school holidays, national holidays and the summer release season, when theater attendance has traditionally been highest. Although we seek to release our films during peak release times, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to release all of our films during those times and, therefore, may miss potentially higher gross box-office receipts. In addition, a substantial majority of the motion picture screens in the U.S. typically are committed at any one time to only 10 to 15 films distributed nationally by major studio distributors. If our competitors were to increase the number of films available for distribution and the number of exhibition screens (especially screens capable of showing 3D films) remained unchanged, it could be more difficult for us to release our films during optimal release periods. Changes in the United States, global or regional economic conditions could adversely affect the profitability of our business. Beginning in 2008, the global economy began experiencing a significant contraction, with an almost unprecedented lack of availability of business and consumer credit. This decrease and any future decrease in economic activity in the U.S. or in other regions of the world in which we do business could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in a number of ways. Any decline in economic conditions may reduce the performance of our theatrical and home entertainment releases and purchases of our licensed consumer products, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. We may also experience increased returns by the retailers that purchase our home entertainment releases. Further, bankruptcies or similar events by retailers, theater chains, television networks, other participants in our distribution chain or other sources of revenue may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced or otherwise cause our revenues to decrease. In periods of generally increasing prices, or of increased price levels in a particular sector such as the energy sector, we may experience a shift in consumer demand away from the entertainment and consumer products we offer, which could also adversely affect our revenues and, at the same time, increase our costs. 18 The seasonality of our businesses could exacerbate negative impacts on our operations. Our business is normally subject to seasonal variations based on the timing of theatrical motion picture and home entertainment releases. Release dates are determined by several factors, including timing of vacation and holiday periods and competition in the market. Also, revenues in our consumer products business are influenced by both seasonal consumer purchasing behavior and the timing of animated theatrical releases and generally peak in the fiscal quarter of a film’s theatrical release. Accordingly, if a short-term negative impact on our business occurs during a time of high seasonal demand (such as natural disaster or a terrorist attack during the time of one of our theatrical or home entertainment releases), the effect could have a disproportionate effect on our results for the year. Strong existing film studios competing in the CG animated film market and the entrance of additional competing film producers could adversely affect our business in several ways. CG animation has been successfully exploited by a growing number of film studios since the first CG animated feature film, Toy Story, was released by Pixar in 1995. In the past several years, a number of studios have entered the CG animated film market, thus increasing the number of CG animated films released per year. There are no substantial technological barriers to entry that prevent other film producers from entering the field. Furthermore, advances in technology may substantially decrease the time that it takes to produce a CG animated feature film, which could result in a significant number of new CG animated films or products. The entrance of additional companies into the CG animated feature film market could adversely impact us by eroding our market share, increasing the competition for CG animated film audiences and increasing the competition for, and cost of, hiring and retaining talented employees, particularly CG animators and technical staff. Our success depends on certain key employees. Our success greatly depends on our employees. In particular, we are dependent upon the services of Jeffrey Katzenberg, our other executive officers and certain creative employees such as directors and producers. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our employees. We have entered into employment agreements with Mr. Katzenberg and with all of our top executive officers and production executives. However, although it is standard in the motion picture industry to rely on employment agreements as a method of retaining the services of key employees, these agreements cannot assure us of the continued services of such employees. The loss of the services of Mr. Katzenberg or a substantial group of key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our scheduled releases of animated feature films and other projects may place a significant strain on our resources. We have established multiple creative and production teams so that we can simultaneously produce several animated feature films. In the past, we have been required, and may continue to be required, to expand our employee base, increase capital expenditures and procure additional resources and facilities in order to accomplish the scheduled releases of our entertainment projects. This growth and expansion has placed, and continues to place, a significant strain on our resources. 19 We cannot provide any assurances that any of our projects will be released as targeted or that this strain on resources will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on Paramount for the distribution and marketing of our feature films and related products. In January 2006, we entered into the Paramount Agreements, pursuant to which Paramount and certain of its affiliates are responsible for the worldwide distribution and servicing of all of our films in substantially all audio-visual media. If Paramount fails to perform under either of the Paramount Agreements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business reputation, operating results or financial condition. In addition, our grant of distribution and servicing rights to Paramount is expressly subject to certain existing sub-distribution, servicing and license agreements previously entered into by Old DreamWorks Studios. Pursuant to the Paramount Agreements, we will continue to license to Old DreamWorks Studios those distribution and servicing rights in and to existing and future films, to the extent necessary for Old DreamWorks Studios to comply with such existing sub-distribution, servicing and license agreements, including the existing sub-distribution, servicing and licensing agreements that Old DreamWorks Studios has entered into with other third-party distributors and service providers. Upon expiration of our existing agreements, all distribution and servicing rights that are subject to such agreements will be automatically granted to Paramount for the remainder of the term of the Paramount Agreements. We cannot assure you that, upon expiration of such agreements, Paramount will be able to replace such sub-distribution, servicing and license agreements on terms as favorable as Old DreamWorks Studios’ existing sub-distribution, servicing and license agreements. For a description of the terms of the Paramount Distribution Agreement and the Paramount Fulfillment Services Agreement, see “Item 1—Business—Distribution and Servicing Arrangements—How We Distribute, Promote and Market Our Films.” Although the Paramount Agreements obligate Paramount to distribute and service our films, Paramount is able to terminate the agreements upon the occurrence of certain events of default, including a failure by us to deliver to Paramount a minimum number of films over specified time periods. We are also able to terminate the agreements upon the occurrence of certain events of default. If Paramount fails to perform under the Paramount Agreements or the agreements are terminated, we may have difficulty finding a replacement distributor and service provider, in part because our films could continue to be subject to the terms of the existing sub-distribution, servicing and licensing agreements that Old DreamWorks Studios, Paramount or both have entered into with third-party distributors and service providers that we have approved. We cannot assure you that, as a result of existing agreements or for other reasons, we will be able to find a replacement distributor or service provider on terms as favorable as those in the Paramount Agreements. Furthermore, in the event that the Paramount Agreements were terminated, depending on the arrangement that we negotiated with a replacement distributor or fulfillment services provider, we could be required to directly incur distribution, servicing and marketing expenses related to our films, which under the Paramount Agreements are incurred by Paramount. Because we would expense those costs as incurred, significant fluctuations in our operating results could result. 20 Paramount provides us with certain services, which, if terminated, may increase our costs in future periods. Under the terms of the Paramount Distribution Agreement, Paramount and certain of its affiliates have agreed to provide us with a variety of services, including music licensing, music creative, music business affairs, archiving of film materials, casting, the calculation and administration of residuals and contingent compensation for our motion pictures, and compiling, preparing and checking credits to be accorded on our films and working and complying with MPAA rules and regulations (including obtaining the MPAA rating for all of our motion pictures). Paramount has the right to terminate a service Paramount is providing under the Paramount Distribution Agreement if we are in breach of a material provision related to such service. If any of the services provided to us by Paramount is terminated, we will be required to either enter into a new agreement with Paramount or another services provider or assume the responsibility for these functions ourselves. If we were to enter into a new agreement with Paramount regarding any such terminated services, hire a new services provider or assume such services ourselves, the economic terms of the new arrangement may be less favorable than our current arrangement with Paramount, which may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are dependent on Paramount for the timely and accurate reporting of financial information related to the distribution of our films. The amount of our net revenue and associated gross profit recognized in any given quarter or quarters from all of our films depends on the timing, accuracy and amount of information we receive from Paramount, our third party distributor and service provider. Although we obtain from Paramount the most current information available to recognize our revenue and determine our film gross profits, Paramount may make subsequent revisions to the information that it has provided, which could have a significant impact on us in later periods. In addition, if we fail to receive accurate information from Paramount or fail to receive it on a timely basis, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We face risks relating to the international distribution of our films and related products. In recent years, we have derived approximately 49% of our feature film revenue from the exploitation of our films in territories outside of the United States. Additionally, some of our newer non-feature film businesses are being or are expected to be conducted, at least partially, outside of the U.S. As a result, our business is subject to risks inherent in international trade, many of which are beyond our control. These risks include: • fluctuating foreign exchange rates. For a more detailed discussion of the potential effects of fluctuating foreign exchange rates, please see “Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” herein; • laws and policies affecting trade, investment and taxes, including laws and policies relating to the repatriation of funds and withholding taxes and changes in these laws; • differing cultural tastes and attitudes, including varied censorship laws; • differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; 21 • financial instability and increased market concentration of buyers in foreign television markets; • the instability of foreign economies and governments; and • war and acts of terrorism. Piracy of motion pictures, including digital and Internet piracy, may decrease revenue received from the exploitation of our films. Unauthorized copying and piracy are prevalent in various parts of the world, including in countries where we may have difficulty enforcing our intellectual property rights. Motion picture piracy is made easier by technological advances and the conversion of motion pictures into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high-quality unauthorized copies of motion pictures. The increased consumer acceptance of entertainment content delivered electronically and consumer acquisition of the hardware and software for facilitating electronic delivery may also lead to greater public acceptance of unauthorized content. The proliferation of unauthorized copies and piracy of these products has an adverse affect on our business because these products reduce the revenue we receive from our legitimate products. Under our agreements with Paramount, Paramount is substantially responsible for enforcing our intellectual property rights with respect to all of our films subject to the Paramount Agreements and is required to maintain security and anti-piracy measures consistent with the highest levels it maintains for its own motion pictures in each territory in the world. Other than the remedies we have in the Paramount Agreements, we have no way of requiring Paramount to take any anti-piracy actions, and Paramount’s failure to take such actions may result in our having to undertake such measures ourselves, which could result in significant expenses and losses of indeterminate amounts of revenue. Even if applied, there can be no assurance that the highest levels of security and anti-piracy measures will prevent piracy. While we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”) and the accompanying rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement it require us to include in our Form 10-K an annual report by our management regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report includes, among other things, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that cannot be remediated in a timely manner, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. While we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls in future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, and, as a result, the degree of compliance of our internal control over financial reporting with the applicable 22 policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2011 (or if our independent auditors disagree with our conclusion), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. We could be adversely affected by strikes and other union activity. Along with the major U.S. film studios, we employ members of IATSE on many of our productions. We are currently subject to collective bargaining agreements with IATSE, the Local 839 of IATSE (the Animation Guild and Affiliated Optical Electronic and Graphic Arts), the Local 700 of IATSE (the Motion Picture Editors Guild) and SAG. In 2009, as a result of our development of an online virtual world, we became a signatory to a collective bargain agreement with AFTRA. We may also become subject to additional collective bargaining agreements. A strike by one or more of the unions that provide personnel essential to the production of our feature films could delay or halt our ongoing production activities. Such a halt or delay, depending on the length of time involved, could cause a delay of the release date of our feature films and thereby could adversely affect the revenue that the films generate. In addition, strikes by unions with which we do not have a collective bargaining agreement (such as the 2008 strike by the Writers Guild of America) can have adverse effects on the entertainment industry in general and, thus, indirectly on us. Business interruptions could adversely affect our operations. Our operations are vulnerable to outages and interruptions due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events beyond our control. In addition, our two studios are located in California—one in Southern California and one in Northern California. These areas in California have in the past and may in the future be subject to earthquakes as well as electrical blackouts as a consequence of a shortage of available electrical power. Although we have developed certain plans to respond in the event of a disaster, there can be no assurance that they will be effective in the event of a specific disaster. In the event of a short-term power outage, we have installed UPS (uninterrupted power source) equipment designed to protect our CG animation rendering equipment and other sensitive equipment. A long-term power outage, however, could disrupt our operations. Prices for electricity have in the past risen dramatically and may increase in the future. An increase in prices would increase our operating costs, which could in turn adversely affect our profitability. Although we currently carry business interruption insurance for potential losses (including earthquake-related losses), there can be no assurance that such insurance will be sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur or that such insurance may continue to be available on affordable terms. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Potential acquisitions could negatively affect our operating results. From time to time, we may enter into discussions regarding acquisition opportunities, both in connection with our traditional animation business or new types of businesses. To the extent that we consummate acquisitions, there can be no assurance that such acquisitions will be successfully integrated by us or that such acquisitions will not adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify 23 acquisition candidates available for sale at reasonable prices or consummate any acquisition or that any discussions will result in an acquisition. Any such acquisitions may require significant additional capital resources and there can be no assurance that we will have access to adequate capital resources to effect such future acquisitions. A variety of uncontrollable events may reduce demand for our entertainment products or otherwise adversely affect our business. Demand for our products and services is highly dependent on the general environment for entertainment and other leisure activities. The environment for these activities can be significantly adversely affected in the U.S. or worldwide as a result of variety of factors beyond our control, including terrorist activities, military actions, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters or health concerns. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Similarly, an outbreak of a particular infectious disease could negatively affect the public’s willingness to see our films in theatres. Finally, the ongoing effects of global climate change could adversely affect our business. Various proposals have been discussed at the federal and state level to limit the carbon emissions of business enterprises, which if enacted could result in an increase in our costs of operations. The effects of climate change could also have unpredictable effects on consumer movie attendance patterns. To be successful, we must continue to attract and retain qualified personnel and our inability to do so would adversely affect the quality of our films. Our success continues to depend to a significant extent on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train and retain qualified creative, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for the caliber of talent required to make our films, particularly for our film directors, producers, writers, animators, creative and technology personnel, will continue to intensify as other studios, some with substantially larger financial resources than ours, build their in-house animation or special-effects capabilities. The entrance of additional film studios into the animated film industry or the increased production capacity of existing film studios will increase the demand for the limited number of talented CG animators and programmers. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying, attracting, hiring, training and retaining such qualified personnel in the future. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel in the future, particularly film directors, producers, animators, creative personnel and technical directors, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We depend on technology and computer systems for the timely and successful development of our animated feature films and related products. Because we are dependent upon a large number of software applications and hardware for the development and production of our animated feature films and other projects, an error or defect in the software, a failure in the hardware, a failure of our backup facilities or a delay in delivery of products and services could result in significantly increased production costs for a project. Moreover, if a software or hardware problem is significant enough, it could result in delays in one or more productions, which in turn could result in potentially significant delays in the release dates of our feature films or affect our ability to complete the production of a feature film or other project. 24 Significant delays in production and significant delays in release dates, as well as the failure to complete a production, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we must ensure that our production environment integrates the latest animation tools and techniques developed in the industry so that our projects remain competitive. To accomplish this, we can either develop these capabilities by upgrading our proprietary software, which can result in substantial research and development costs, or we can seek to purchase third-party licenses, which can also result in significant expenditures. In the event we seek to develop these capabilities internally, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in doing so. In the event we seek to obtain third-party licenses, we cannot guarantee that they will be available or, once obtained, will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our revenue may be adversely affected if we fail to protect certain of our proprietary technology or enhance or develop new technology. We depend on certain of our proprietary technology to develop and produce our animated feature films and other projects. We rely on a combination of patents, copyright and trade secret protection and non-disclosure agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. From time to time, we may have patent applications pending in the United States or other countries. We cannot provide any assurances that patents will issue from any of these pending applications or that, if patents do issue, any claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology or that they will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, to produce our projects we also rely on third-party software, which is readily available to others. Failure of our patents, copyrights and trade secret protection, non-disclosure agreements and other measures to provide protection of our technology and the availability of third-party software may make it easier for our competitors to obtain technology equivalent to or superior to our technology. If our competitors develop or license technology that is superior to ours or that makes our technology obsolete, we may be required to incur significant costs to enhance or acquire new technology so that our feature films and other projects remain competitive. Such costs could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we may be required to litigate in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, could effectively prevent us from using important technology and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us in the future. In addition to our proprietary technology, we also rely on certain technology that we license from third parties, including software that we use with our proprietary software. We cannot provide any assurances that these third-party technology licenses will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all or that the technology licenses will not result in intellectual property infringement claims by third parties. The loss of or inability to maintain any of these technology licenses could result in delays in project releases until equivalent technology could be identified, licensed and integrated to complete a given project. Any such delays or failures in project releases could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 25 Others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. One of the risks of the CG animated film production business is the possibility of claims that our projects and production techniques misappropriate or infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties with respect to their technology, software, previously developed films, stories, characters, copyrights, trademarks, other entertainment or intellectual property. We have received, and are likely to receive in the future, claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that infringement or misappropriation claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from such claims) will not be asserted or prosecuted against us, or that any assertions or prosecutions will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Regardless of the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we could incur significant costs and diversion of resources with respect to the defense thereof, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any claims or actions are asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license of a third-party’s intellectual property rights. We cannot provide any assurances, however, that under such circumstances a license would be available on reasonable terms or at all. We may incur significant write-offs if our feature films and other projects do not perform well enough to recoup production, marketing and distribution costs. We are required to amortize capitalized production costs over the expected revenue streams as we recognize revenue from the associated films or other projects. The amount of production costs that will be amortized each quarter depends on how much future revenue we expect to receive from each project. Unamortized production costs are evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a project-by-project basis. If estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized production costs, the unamortized production costs will be written down to fair value. In any given quarter, if we lower our previous forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual feature film or other project, we would be required to accelerate amortization of related costs. For instance, in the quarter ended December 31, 2006, we incurred a write-down of $108.6 million for a change in the estimated fair value of unamortized film costs for Flushed Away. Such accelerated amortization would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Our online virtual world business and other online activities are subject to a variety of laws and regulations relating to privacy and child protection, which, if violated, could subject us to an increased risk of litigation and regulatory actions. In March 2010, our online virtual world, Kung Fu Panda World, became commercially available. This virtual world, which is based on our 2008 theatrical release, Kung Fu Panda, is targeted primarily to children between the ages of seven and 13. We also use social media and other Internet websites to market our projects and connect with consumers. A variety of laws and regulations have been adopted over the last several years aimed at protecting children using the Internet. These laws include the federal Children’s Online Privacy and Protection Act of 1998 (“COPPA”). COPPA sets forth, among other things, a number of restrictions on what website operators can present to children under the age of 13 and what information can be collected from them. Kung Fu Panda World has been developed and created in manner that we believe complies with COPPA and other laws and regulations applicable to online virtual worlds. However, if the 26 Company’s virtual world or other online activities were to violate any applicable current or future laws and regulations, the Company could be subject to litigation and regulatory actions, including fines and other penalties. Additionally, the Company currently uses a subscription model to generate revenue from the virtual world, under which users pay for access through monthly or other periodic charges to their credit cards. Any unauthorized disclosure of our users’ credit card or other personally identifiable information could result in claims and lawsuits against us, as well as damage to our reputation as a family-friendly content provider. If our stock price fluctuates, you could lose a significant part of your investment. The market price of our Class A common stock may be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including those described above and the following: • changes in financial estimates by analysts; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, productions, acquisitions or capital commitments; • variations in quarterly operating results; • general economic conditions; • terrorist acts; • future sales of our common stock; and • investor perception of us and the filmmaking industry. Our stock price may also experience fluctuations as a result of the limited number of outstanding shares that are able to be sold in an unrestricted manner (often referred to as the “public float”). As a result of our limited public float, large transactions by institutional investors may result in increased volatility in our stock price. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to and disproportionate to the operating performance of movie studios. These broad market and industry factors may materially reduce the market price of our Class A common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Future sales of our shares, including sales that may occur in connection with follow-on offerings that we have agreed to effect for certain of our stockholders, may cause the market price of our Class A common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. Each of Jeffrey Katzenberg, David Geffen or entities controlled by them or their permitted transferees is able to sell shares in the public market from time to time without registering them, subject to certain limitations on the timing, amount and method of those sales imposed by Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, entities controlled by each of Jeffrey Katzenberg and David Geffen (and certain of their permitted transferees) have the right to cause us to register the sale of shares of Class A common stock beneficially owned by them. If any of Jeffrey Katzenberg, David Geffen or entities controlled by them or their respective permitted transferees were to sell a large number of their shares, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline significantly. In addition, the perception in the public markets that sales by them might occur could also adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. 27 Also, in the future, we may issue our securities in connection with investments and acquisitions. The amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding common stock. A few significant stockholders control the direction of our business. The concentrated ownership of our common stock and certain corporate governance arrangements will prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions. Jeffrey Katzenberg, David Geffen and entities controlled by them own 100% of our Class B common stock, representing approximately 13% of our common equity and approximately 69% of the total voting power of our common stock. Accordingly, Jeffrey Katzenberg and David Geffen or entities controlled by them generally have the collective ability to control (without the consent of our other stockholders) all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the nomination and election of directors, the determination of our corporate and management policies and the determination of the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. In addition, the disproportionate voting rights of the Class B common stock relative to the Class A common stock may make us a less attractive takeover target. The interests of our controlling and significant stockholders may conflict with the interests of our other stockholders. We cannot assure you that the interests of Jeffrey Katzenberg, David Geffen or entities controlled by them will coincide with the interests of the holders of our Class A common stock. For example, Jeffrey Katzenberg and David Geffen, or entities controlled by them, could cause us to make acquisitions that increase the amount of our indebtedness or outstanding shares of common stock or sell revenue-generating assets. Jeffrey Katzenberg and David Geffen may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides for the allocation of corporate opportunities between us, on the one hand, and certain of our founding stockholders, on the other hand, which could prevent us from taking advantage of certain corporate opportunities. So long as Jeffrey Katzenberg, David Geffen or entities controlled by them continue to collectively own shares of our Class B common stock with significant voting power, Jeffrey Katzenberg and David Geffen, or entities controlled by them, will continue to collectively be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Additionally, in connection with the Separation we entered into a tax receivable agreement with an affiliate of Paul Allen, who was previously a director and significant stockholder. As a result of certain transactions that entities controlled by Paul Allen engaged in, the tax basis of our assets was partially increased (the “Tax Basis Increase”) and the amount of tax we may pay in the future is expected to be reduced during the approximately 15-year amortization period for such increased tax basis. Under the tax receivable agreement, we are required to pay to such affiliate 85% of the amount of any cash savings in certain taxes resulting from the Tax Basis Increase and certain other related tax benefits, subject to repayment if it is determined that these savings should not have been available to us. During the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2010, we made payments (net of refunds) totaling $28.5 million and $26.9 million, respectively, to Mr. Allen’s affiliate. As of December 31, 28 2010, we have recorded a liability of $329.6 million to Mr. Allen’s affiliate. We expect that $27.5 million will become payable during the next 12 months (which is subject to the finalization of our 2010 tax returns) and the remainder will become payable over the next several years. The significant increase in the liability due to Mr. Allen’s affiliate as of December 31, 2010 was attributable to the reversal of a substantial portion of our valuation allowance held against our deferred tax assets during the year ended December 31, 2010. In addition, this liability may increase in the future to the extent that new deferred tax assets result in realized tax benefits that are subject to the tax receivable agreement. See Risk Factor entitled “Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results.” As a result of the tax receivable agreement, the interests of Paul Allen and entities controlled by him and the holders of our Class A common stock could differ. The actual amount and timing of any payments under the tax receivable agreement will vary depending upon a number of factors. The payments that may be made to Paul Allen’s affiliate pursuant to the tax receivable agreement could be substantial. For a further discussion of the tax receivable agreement, see Note 9 to our audited consolidated financial statements and “Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Provision for Income Taxes.” Anti-takeover provisions of our charter and by-laws, as well as Delaware law may reduce the likelihood of any potential change of control or unsolicited acquisition proposal that you might consider favorable. The anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. Additionally, provisions of our charter and by-laws could deter, delay or prevent a third-party from acquiring us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions include: • the division of our capital stock into Class A common stock, entitled to one vote per share, and Class B common stock, entitled to 15 votes per share, all of which Class B common stock will initially be owned or controlled by Jeffrey Katzenberg and David Geffen; • the authority of the board to issue preferred stock with terms as the board may determine; • the absence of cumulative voting in the election of directors; • following such time as the outstanding shares of Class B common stock cease to represent a majority of the combined voting power of the voting stock, prohibition on stockholder action by written consent; • limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals; • following such time as the outstanding shares of Class B common stock cease to represent a majority of the combined voting power of the voting stock, super-majority voting requirements for stockholders to amend the by-laws; and • stockholder super-majority voting requirements to amend certain provisions of the charter. 29 Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns could adversely affect our results. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Internal Revenue Service is currently auditing our tax returns for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008. Our California state tax returns for the period October 27, 2004 through December 31, 2004 and for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 are currently under examination by the California Franchise Tax Board. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. While we believe that we have adequately provided for our tax liabilities, including the outcome of these examinations, it is possible that the amount paid upon resolution of issues raised may differ from the amount provided. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, we concluded that it was more likely than not that our deferred tax assets were realizable and that substantially all of the related valuation allowance previously established was no longer needed. This conclusion was based upon our expectation of sufficient future taxable income to fully utilize these assets. However, as indicated by the above Risk Factor entitled “Our operating results fluctuate significantly,” there is no assurance that we will attain our future expected levels of taxable income or that a valuation allowance against new or existing deferred tax assets will not be necessary in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has received no written comments regarding its periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of its 2010 fiscal year and that remain unresolved. 