Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this report, including the financial statements and related notes, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of these risks or uncertainties were to occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We may not have sufficient cash after establishment of cash reserves to pay cash distributions at the current level. We may not have sufficient cash each quarter to pay distributions at the current level. Under our limited liability company agreement, we set aside any cash reserve necessary for the conduct of our business before making a distribution to our unitholders. The amount of cash we have available for distribution is more a function of our cash flow rather than of our net income, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. The amount of cash we can distribute principally depends upon the cash we generate from operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the amount of natural gas gathered and transported on our pipelines; • the amount and NGL content of the natural gas we process; • the fees we charge and the margins we realize for our services; • the fees we pay to third parties for their services; • the prices of natural gas, NGLs and crude oil; • the relationship between natural gas and NGL prices; • the level of our operating costs and the impact of inflation on those costs; and • the weather in our operating areas. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: • the amount of capital we spend on projects, the profitability of such projects and the timing of the associated cash flow; • our ability to borrow money and access capital markets; • the cost of any acquisitions we make; • the effectiveness of our hedging program and the creditworthiness of our hedging counterparties; • our debt service requirements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • restrictions on distributions imposed by our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our senior unsecured notes; • restrictions on distributions by entities in which we own interests; • the amount of cash reserves established by our Board of Directors for the proper conduct of our business; and • prevailing economic conditions. Some of the factors described above are beyond our control. If we decrease distributions, the market price for our units may be adversely affected. Our cash flow and profitability depend upon prices and market demand for natural gas and NGLs, which are beyond our control and have been volatile. Our cash flow and profitability are affected by prevailing NGL and natural gas prices, and we are subject to significant risks due to fluctuations in commodity prices. In the past, the prices of natural gas and NGLs have been extremely volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue. For example, natural gas prices at the Henry Hub in 27 Table of Contents Louisiana (which serves as the pricing point for natural gas futures contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange, or “NYMEX”) reached a low of $2.84 per MMBtu in September 2009 and ranged from $5.82 per MMBtu in January 2010 to $3.29 per MMBtu in November 2010. Based on average monthly Mt. Belvieu prices and our weighted-average product mix in Texas for 2010, NGL prices ranged from $50.61 per barrel in January 2010 to $38.26 per barrel in July 2010. We derive a majority of our gross margin from contracts with terms that are commodity price sensitive. As a result, our cash flow and profitability depend to a significant extent on the prices at which we buy and sell natural gas and at which we sell NGLs and condensate. The markets and prices for natural gas and NGLs depend upon many factors beyond our control. These factors include supply and demand for oil, natural gas, liquefied natural gas (“LNG”), nuclear energy, coal and NGLs, which fluctuate with changes in market and economic conditions and other factors, including: • the impact of weather on the demand for oil and natural gas; • the level of domestic oil and natural gas production; • storage levels for oil, natural gas, LNG and NGLs; • the availability of imported oil, natural gas, LNG and NGLs; • international demand for LNG, oil and NGLs; • actions taken by foreign oil and gas producing nations; • the availability of local, intrastate and interstate transportation systems for natural gas and NGLs; • the availability of downstream NGL fractionation facilities; • the availability and marketing of competitive fuels; • the impact of energy conservation efforts; and • the extent of governmental regulation and taxation. Changes in commodity prices may also indirectly impact our profitability by influencing drilling activity and well operations, and thus the volume of natural gas we gather and process. This volatility may cause our gross margin and cash flows to vary widely from period to period. We use commodity derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to commodity prices, but these instruments also are subject to inherent risks. Please read “— Our hedging activities do not eliminate our exposure to commodity price and interest rate risks and may reduce our cash flow and subject our earnings to increased volatility.” We may not be able to fully execute our business strategy if we encounter illiquid capital markets. Our business strategy contemplates pursuing capital projects and acquisitions, both in our existing areas of operations and in new regions where we believe growth opportunities are attractive and our business strategies could be applied. We regularly consider and enter into discussions regarding strategic projects or transactions that we believe will present opportunities to pursue our growth strategy. We will require substantial new capital to finance strategic acquisitions or to complete significant organic expansion or greenfield projects. Any limitations on our access to capital will impair our ability to execute our growth strategy. If capital becomes too expensive, our ability to develop or acquire accretive assets will be limited. We may not be able to raise the necessary funds on satisfactory terms, if at all. The primary factors influencing our cost of capital are market conditions and offering or borrowing costs such as interest rates or underwriting discounts. Illiquid capital markets could also limit investment and development by third parties, such as producers and end-users, which could indirectly affect our ability to fully execute our business strategy. 28 Table of Contents Our substantial indebtedness could limit our operating and financing flexibility and impair our ability to fulfill our obligations. We have substantial indebtedness. As of February 15, 2011 and in addition to liabilities related to our risk management activities, we had total indebtedness of $632.2 million, including our senior unsecured notes and our revolving credit facility, and available borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility was approximately $400 million. We may incur significant additional indebtedness and other financial obligations in the future. Our substantial indebtedness and other financial obligations could have important consequences to you. For example, these obligations could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to payments on our indebtedness and other financial obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general company requirements; • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt service requirements or comply with financial or other covenants in our debt agreements; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general company purposes or other purposes; • result in higher interest expense if interest rates increase; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a disadvantage relative to any competitors that have proportionately less debt. If we are unable to meet our debt service and other financial obligations or comply with our debt covenants, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our indebtedness, in which case our lenders could require us to suspend cash distributions, or seek additional equity capital or sell assets. We may be unable to obtain such refinancing or equity capital or sell assets on satisfactory terms, if at all. Failure to meet our debt service and other financial obligations could result in defaults under our debt agreements, which, if not cured or waived, would lead to acceleration of our debt and other financial obligations. If we were unable to repay those obligations, our lenders could initiate a bankruptcy proceeding or liquidation proceeding or proceed against any collateral. Restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness may reduce our operating flexibility. The indentures governing our outstanding senior unsecured notes contains various covenants that limit our ability and the ability of specified subsidiaries to, among other things: • sell assets; • pay distributions on, redeem or repurchase our equity interests or redeem or repurchase our subordinated debt, if any; • make investments; • incur or guarantee additional indebtedness or issue preferred units; • create or incur certain liens; • enter into agreements that restrict distributions or other payments from our restricted subsidiaries to us; • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • create unrestricted subsidiaries; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; and • enter into letters of credit. 29 Table of Contents Our revolving credit facility contains similar covenants, as well as covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial conditions. The restrictive covenants in our indentures and our revolving credit facility could limit our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to obtain future financings, make needed capital expenditures, withstand a future downturn in our business or in the economy in general, or conduct operations. In addition, Fort Union, in which we own a 37.04% interest, has debt outstanding under an agreement that includes, among other customary covenants and events of default, a limitation on its ability to make cash distributions. Fort Union can distribute cash to its members only if its ratio of net operating cash flow to debt service is not less than 1.25 to 1.00 and it is not otherwise in default under its credit agreement. If Fort Union fails to comply with this covenant or otherwise defaults under its credit agreement, it would be prohibited from distributing cash to us, and its lenders could accelerate its repayment obligations, both of which would adversely affect our cash flow. Our ability to obtain funding under our revolving credit facility could be impaired by conditions in the financial markets. We rely on our revolving credit facility to finance a significant portion of our capital expenditures. Our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility is subject to conditions in the financial markets, including the solvency of institutional lenders. Specifically, we would be unable to obtain adequate funding under our revolving credit facility if: • one or more of our lenders failed to meet its funding obligations; • at the time we draw on our revolving credit facility, any of the representations or warranties or certain covenants included in the agreement is false in any material respect and the lenders elected to refuse to provide funding; or • any lender refuses to fund its commitment for any reason, whether or not valid, and the other lenders elect not to provide additional funding to make up for the unfunded portion. If we are unable to access funds under our revolving credit facility, we would need to meet our capital requirements using other sources which, depending on economic conditions, may not be available on acceptable terms. If the cash generated from our operations or the funds we are able to obtain under our revolving credit facility or other sources of liquidity are not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, then we may need to delay or abandon expansion projects or other business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to obtain financing from sources other than our revolving credit facility is subject to conditions in the credit and capital markets. If we need to raise capital from a source other than our revolving credit facility, we cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to the extent required and on acceptable terms. Global market and economic conditions have been volatile in recent years, and the availability and cost of debt and equity capital are subject to general economic conditions and perceptions about the stability of financial markets and the solvency of counterparties. Adverse changes in these factors are likely to result in higher interest rates and deterioration in the availability and cost of debt and equity financing. If capital on acceptable terms is not available to us, we may be unable to fully execute our growth strategy, otherwise take advantage of business opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents We are exposed to the credit risk of our customers and other counterparties. A general increase in nonpayment and nonperformance by counterparties could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. Risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our counterparties are a major concern in our business. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers and other counterparties, such as our lenders and hedging counterparties. Many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity, all of which are subject to adverse changes in commodity prices and economic and market conditions. Since the most recent economic downturn, some of our customers have experienced a combination of lower cash flow due to commodity prices, reduced borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and reduced availability of debt or equity financing. These factors may result in a significant reduction in our customers’ liquidity and ability to pay or otherwise perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own credit, operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. Any increase in nonpayment and nonperformance by our counterparties, either as a result of financial and economic conditions or otherwise, could have an adverse impact on our operating results and could adversely affect our liquidity. Our hedging activities do not eliminate our exposure to commodity price and interest rate risks and may reduce our cash flow and subject our earnings to increased volatility. Our operations expose us to fluctuations in commodity prices, and our revolving credit facility exposes us to fluctuations in interest rates. We use derivative financial instruments to reduce our sensitivity to commodity prices and interest rates, and the degree of our exposure is related largely to the effectiveness and scope of our hedging activities. We have hedged only portions of our variable-rate debt and expected natural gas and NGL volumes. We continue to have direct interest rate and commodity price risk with respect to the unhedged portions, and our hedging strategies cannot offset volume risk. Our ability to enter into new derivative instruments is subject to general economic and market conditions. The markets for instruments we use to hedge our commodity price and interest rate exposure generally reflect conditions in the underlying commodity and debt markets, and to the extent conditions in underlying markets are unfavorable, our ability to enter into new derivative instruments on acceptable terms will be limited. In addition, to the extent we hedge our commodity price and interest rate risks using swap instruments, we will forego the benefits of favorable changes in commodity prices or interest rates. Our hedging activity may be ineffective or adversely affect our cash flow and liquidity, our earnings or both because, among other factors: • hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of volatile prices or when hedging into extended future periods; • our counterparty in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; and • available hedges may not correspond directly with the risks against which we seek protection. For example: • the duration of a hedge may not match the duration of the risk against which we seek protection; • variations in the index we use to price a commodity hedge may not adequately correlate with variations in the index we use to sell the physical commodity (known as basis risk); and • we may not produce or process sufficient volumes to cover swap arrangements we enter into for a given period. If our actual volumes are lower than the volumes we estimated when entering into a swap for the period, we might be forced to satisfy all or a portion of our derivative obligation without the benefit of cash flow from our sale or purchase of the underlying physical commodity. Our financial statements may reflect gains or losses arising from exposure to commodity prices or interest rates for which we are unable to enter into fully economically effective hedges. In addition, the standards for cash flow hedge accounting are rigorous. Even when we engage in hedging transactions that are effective economically, these 31 Table of Contents transactions may not be considered effective cash flow hedges for accounting purposes. Our earnings could be subject to increased volatility to the extent our derivatives do not continue to qualify as cash flow hedges, and, if we assume derivatives as part of an acquisition, to the extent we cannot obtain or choose not to seek cash flow hedge accounting for the derivatives we assume. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with our business. In July of 2010, the United States Congress adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation, known as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and entities, including us, that participate in that market. The financial reform legislation may require us to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade-execution requirements in connection with our derivative activities, although the application of those provisions to us is uncertain at this time pending promulgation of regulations by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission and the SEC. Even if we are not directly subject to such margin or clearing requirements, our counterparties may be subject to new capital, margin, clearing, and business conduct requirements imposed as a result of the new legislation, which may increase our transaction costs or make it more difficult to enter into hedging transactions on favorable terms. Accordingly, the new legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral, which could adversely affect our available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks we encounter, and reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse effect on us, our financial condition and our results of operations. We rely on third-party pipelines and other facilities in providing service to our customers. If one or more of these pipelines or facilities were to become capacity-constrained or unavailable, our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to provide service to our customers depends in part on the availability of third-party pipelines and other facilities, and because we do not own or operate these pipelines and facilities, their continuing operation or availability is not within our control. For example, we rely on Kinder Morgan’s Laredo-to-Katy pipeline to transport natural gas from many of our Texas gathering systems to, and Dow Hydrocarbon to take delivery of NGLs from, our Houston Central complex, and we rely on ONEOK Hydrocarbon to take delivery of NGLs from our Saint Jo plant and from several of our Oklahoma processing plants. We also depend on other third-party processing plants, pipelines and other facilities to provide our customers with processing, delivery, fractionation or transportation options. Like us, these third-party service providers are subject to risks inherent in the midstream business, including capacity constraints, natural disasters and operational, mechanical or other hazards. For example, we believe that NGL fractionation and transportation facilities on which we depend are subject to increasing capacity constraints. Also, some third-party pipelines have minimum gas quality specifications that at times may limit or eliminate our transportation options. If any of these pipelines and other facilities becomes unavailable or limited in its ability to provide services on which we depend, our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected. We would likely incur higher fees or other costs in arranging for alternatives. A prolonged interruption or reduction of service on Kinder Morgan, Dow Hydrocarbon, ONEOK Hydrocarbon or another pipeline or facility on which we depend could hinder our ability to contract for additional gas supplies. Because of the natural decline in production from existing wells, our success depends on our ability to continually obtain new supplies of natural gas and NGLs. Our pipeline systems and processing or fractionation facilities are connected to or dependent on natural gas fields and wells from which the production will naturally decline over time, which means that our cash flows 32 Table of Contents associated with these wells will also decline over time. To maintain or increase throughput volumes on our pipeline systems and inlet volumes at our processing plants, we must continually obtain new supplies of natural gas and NGLs. The primary factors affecting our ability to do so include the level of successful drilling activity near our gathering systems and our ability to compete for the attachment of such additional volumes to our systems. Fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect drilling and production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new natural gas reserves. Drilling activity generally decreases as natural gas prices decrease. We have no control over the level of drilling activity in the areas of our operations, the amount of reserves underlying the wells or the rate at which production from a well will decline. In addition, we have no control over producers or their drilling and production decisions, which are affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, drilling costs, rig availability, demand for hydrocarbons, the level of reserves, geological considerations, governmental regulations and the availability and cost of capital. We face strong competition in acquiring new natural gas supplies. Competitors to our pipeline operations include major interstate and intrastate pipelines, and other natural gas gatherers. Competition for natural gas supplies is primarily based on the location of pipeline facilities, pricing arrangements, reputation, efficiency, flexibility and reliability. A number of our competitors are larger organizations than we are. If we are unable to maintain or increase the throughput on our pipeline systems because of decreased drilling activity, decreased production from the wells connected to our systems or inability to connect new supplies of gas and attract new customers to our gathering and transmission lines, then our business, financial results and our ability to achieve our growth strategy could be materially adversely affected. To the extent that we make acquisitions in the future and our acquisitions do not perform as expected, our future financial performance may be negatively impacted. Our business strategy includes making acquisitions that we anticipate would increase the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. As a result, from time to time, we evaluate and pursue assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing operations or expand our operations into new regions where our growth strategy can be applied. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete acquisitions in the future or achieve the desired results from any acquisitions we do complete. In addition, failure to successfully integrate our acquisitions could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our acquisitions potentially involve numerous risks, including: • operating a significantly larger combined organization and adding operations; • difficulties in integrating the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, especially if the assets acquired are in a new business segment or geographic area; • the risk that natural gas reserves expected to support the acquired assets may not be of the anticipated magnitude or may not be developed on the anticipated timetable, or at all; • the loss of significant producers or markets or key employees from the acquired businesses; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • failure to realize expected profitability or growth; • failure to realize any expected synergies and cost savings; • exposure to increased competition; • coordinating geographically disparate organizations, systems and facilities; • coordinating or consolidating information technology, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other administrative or compliance functions; and • a decrease in liquidity and increased leverage as a result of using significant amounts of available cash or debt to finance an acquisition. 33 Table of Contents Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Because of these risks and challenges, even when we make acquisitions that we believe will increase our ability to distribute cash, those acquisitions may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per unit basis. This could result in lower distributions to our common unitholders and make compliance with financial covenants under our debt agreements more difficult, and, if an acquisition’s performance does not improve, could ultimately require us to record an impairment of our interest in the acquired company or assets. Although our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly following an acquisition, you may not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating future acquisitions. Our acquisitions could expose us to potential significant liabilities. We generally assume the liabilities of entities that we acquire and may assume certain liabilities relating to assets that we acquire, including unknown and contingent liabilities. We perform due diligence in connection with our acquisitions and attempt to verify the representations of the sellers, but there may be pending, threatened, contemplated or contingent claims related to environmental, title, regulatory, litigation or other matters of which we are unaware. We may have indemnification claims against sellers for certain of these liabilities, as well as for disclosed liabilities, but our indemnification rights generally will be limited in amount and duration. Our right to indemnification also will be limited, as a practical matter, to the creditworthiness of the indemnifying party. If our right to indemnification is inadequate to cover the obligations of an acquired entity or relating to acquired assets, or if our indemnifying seller is unable to meet its obligations to us, our liability for such obligations could materially adversely affect our cash flow, operations and financial condition. We generally do not obtain reservoir engineering reports evaluating reserves dedicated to our pipeline systems; therefore, volumes of natural gas transported on our pipeline systems in the future could be less than we anticipate, which may cause our revenues and operating income to be less than we expect. We generally do not obtain reservoir engineering reports evaluating natural gas reserves connected to our pipeline systems due to producers’ unwillingness to provide reserve information, as well as the cost of such evaluations. Accordingly, we do not have estimates of total reserves dedicated to our systems or the anticipated life of such reserves. If the total reserves or estimated life of reserves connected to our pipeline systems is less than we anticipate and we are unable to secure additional sources of natural gas, the volumes of natural gas that we gather and process would likely decline. A sustained decline in natural gas volumes would cause our revenues to be less than we expect, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions to you. Constructing new assets will subject us to risks that projects may not be completed on schedule or on budget and that anticipated natural gas supplies may not be available following completion of the projects. Our operating cash flows from our capital projects may not be immediate or meet our expectations. One of the ways we grow our business is by constructing additions or modifications to our existing pipelines (including additional compression) and processing plants. We may also construct new facilities, either near our existing operations or in new areas. Construction projects require significant amounts of capital and involve numerous regulatory, environmental, political, legal and operational uncertainties beyond our control. These projects also involve numerous economic uncertainties, including the impact of inflation on project costs and the availability of required resources. If we undertake these projects, they may not be completed on schedule, at the budgeted cost, or at all. Moreover, we may not receive any material increase in operating cash flow from a project for some time, particularly in the case of greenfield projects, or the cash flow we receive may not meet our expectations. We often rely on estimates of future production in deciding whether to construct additional or new facilities. These estimates may prove to be inaccurate because of the numerous technological, economic and other uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of future production. As a result, new facilities may not be able to attract sufficient volumes to 34 Table of Contents achieve our expected investment return. We also may construct assets in reliance on firm capacity commitments by third-party facilities downstream of our facilities. If such third-party facilities are not available when we expect them, we could be adversely affected. If we experience unanticipated or extended delays in generating operating cash flow from construction projects, we may need to reduce or reprioritize our capital budget in order to meet our capital requirements, and our cash flows and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain new rights-of-way, then we may be unable to fully execute our growth strategy. In addition, if the cost of renewing existing rights-of-way increases, it may have an adverse impact on our profitability. We generally obtain new rights-of-way before constructing or extending pipelines and renew expiring rights-of-way associated with our existing assets. We may be unable to obtain rights-of-way to connect new natural gas supplies to our existing gathering lines or capitalize on other expansion opportunities. Additionally, it may become more expensive for us to obtain or renew rights-of-way. Increasing costs or otherwise burdensome terms for new or renewed rights-of-way could impair our ability to grow or adversely affect our results of operations. Federal, state or local regulatory measures could adversely affect our business. Our pipeline transportation and gathering systems are subject to federal, state and local regulation. Most of our natural gas pipelines are gathering systems that are considered non-utilities in the states in which they are located. Several of our pipelines in Texas are subject to regulation as gas utilities by the TRRC. The states in which we operate have complaint-based regulation of natural gas gathering activities. Natural gas producers, shippers and other affected parties may file complaints with state regulators relating to natural gas gathering access and discrimination with regard to rates and terms of service, or, with respect to our gas utility pipelines in Texas, challenging the rates we charge for utility transportation service. Other state laws and regulations may not directly regulate our business, but may nonetheless affect the availability of natural gas for gathering, purchase, processing and sale, including state regulation of production rates and maximum daily production allowables from gas wells. A successful complaint, or new laws or regulatory rulings related to gathering, downstream quality specifications or natural gas utilities, could increase our costs or require us to alter our gathering or utility services charges and our business. To the extent that our intrastate transmission pipeline in Texas transports natural gas in interstate commerce, the rates, terms and conditions of that transportation service are subject to regulation by the FERC pursuant to Section 311 of the NGPA. If our Section 311 rates are successfully challenged, if we are unable to include all of our costs in the cost of service approved in a future rate case, or if FERC changes its regulations or policies or establishes more onerous terms and conditions applicable to Section 311 service, our margins relating to this activity would be adversely affected. We also have transportation contracts with interstate pipelines that are subject to FERC regulation. As a shipper on an interstate pipeline, we are subject to FERC requirements related to use of the interstate capacity. Any failure on our part to comply with the FERC’s regulations or an interstate pipeline’s tariff could result in the imposition of administrative civil and criminal penalties. Our physical purchases and sales of natural gas and NGLs, our gathering or transportation of these energy commodities, and any related hedging activities, must comply with applicable anti-market manipulation laws and related regulations enforced by the FERC and/or the CFTC. The FERC and the CFTC hold substantial enforcement authority under the anti-market manipulation laws and regulations, including the ability to assess civil penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation, to order disgorgement of profits and to recommend criminal penalties. Should we violate the anti-market manipulation laws and regulations, we could also be subject to related third-party damage claims by, among others, sellers, royalty owners and taxing authorities. These and other new laws and regulations or any administrative or judicial re-interpretations of existing laws, regulations or agreements could impose increased costs and administrative burdens on us, and our business, results 35 Table of Contents of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, laws and regulations affecting producers to whom we provide our services could have adverse effects on us to the extent they affect production in our operating areas. For instance, the U.S. Supreme Court is adjudicating a dispute between the States of Montana and Wyoming over water rights in two rivers that flow through both states. Montana is asserting that Wyoming uses too much water from the Tongue and Powder Rivers pursuant to the Yellowstone River Compact, an agreement that both states entered into in 1950. Montana argues that the Compact applies to groundwater, and that coal bed methane production in Wyoming, which involves the pumping of large quantities of groundwater, is depleting the two rivers in violation of the Compact. Montana has asked the Supreme Court to declare Montana’s right to, and to order Wyoming to deliver, the waters of these two rivers to Montana in accord with the Compact. In a February 2010 ruling on Wyoming’s motion to dismiss, the special master appointed by the Supreme Court concluded that the Compact protects Montana from at least some forms of groundwater pumping but left the question of the exact circumstances under which groundwater pumping violates the Compact to subsequent proceedings in the case. Any decision by the Supreme Court that effectively limits the amount of groundwater pumped in connection with coal bed methane production in Wyoming may have significant adverse effects on natural gas production in affected areas of Wyoming and, correspondingly, on gathering services that Bighorn and Fort Union provide. A change in the characterization of some of our assets by federal, state or local regulatory agencies could adversely affect our business. Section 1(b) of the NGA provides that the FERC’s rate and service jurisdiction does not extend to facilities used for the production or gathering of natural gas. “Gathering” is not specifically defined by the NGA or its implementing regulations, and there is no bright-line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. Although some guidance is provided by case law, the process of determining whether facilities constitute gathering facilities for purposes of regulation under the NGA is fact-specific and subject to regulatory change. Additionally, our construction, expansion, extension or alteration of pipeline facilities may involve regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, including the possibility that physical changes to our pipeline systems may be deemed to affect their jurisdictional status. The distinction between FERC-regulated interstate natural gas transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services has been the subject of litigation from time to time, as has been the line between intrastate and interstate transportation services. Thus, the classification and regulation of some of our natural gas gathering facilities and our intrastate transportation pipeline may be subject to change based on future determinations by the FERC and/or the courts. Should any of our natural gas gathering or intrastate facilities be deemed to be jurisdictional under the NGA, we could be required to comply with numerous federal requirements for interstate service, including laws and regulations governing the rates charged for interstate transportation services, the terms and conditions of service, certification and construction of new facilities, the extension or abandonment of services and facilities, the maintenance of accounts and records, the initiation and discontinuation of services, the monitoring and posting of real-time system information and many other requirements. Failure to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders could result in substantial penalties and fines. It is also possible that our gathering facilities could be deemed by a relevant state commission or court, or by a change in law or regulation, to constitute intrastate pipelines subject to general state law and regulation of rates and terms and conditions of service. A change in jurisdictional status through litigation or legislation could require significant changes to the rates, terms and conditions of service on the affected pipeline, could increase the expense of providing service and adversely affect our business. The distinction between FERC-regulated common carriage of NGLs, and the non-jurisdictional intrastate transportation of NGLs, has also been the subject of litigation. To the extent any of our NGL assets is found to be subject to FERC jurisdiction, the FERC’s rate-making methodologies could limit our ability to set rates that we might otherwise be able to charge, could delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs and could subject us to potentially burdensome and expensive operational, reporting and other requirements. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, revenues and cash flow. 36 Table of Contents Federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs for producers and additional operating restrictions or delays affecting production of natural gas, which could adversely affect us. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons, particularly natural gas, from tight formations. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into formations to fracture the surrounding rock and stimulate production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. However, the EPA recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel additives under the Safe Drinking Water Act’s Underground Injection Control Program. While the EPA has yet to take any action to enforce or implement this newly asserted regulatory authority, industry groups have filed suit challenging the EPA’s recent decision. At the same time, legislation was proposed in the recently ended session of Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process, and such legislation could be introduced in the current session of Congress. Moreover, the EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities, with results of the study anticipated to be available by late 2012, and a committee of the U.S. House of Representatives is also conducting an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. In addition, some states have adopted, and other states are considering adopting, regulations that could restrict hydraulic fracturing in certain circumstances. For example, Wyoming, where we have natural gas gathering system operations, has adopted legislation requiring drilling operators conducting hydraulic fracturing activities in that state to publicly disclose the chemical used in the hydraulic fracturing process. If new federal or state laws or regulations that significantly restrict hydraulic fracturing are adopted, such legal requirements could reduce demand for our gathering and processing or fractionation services. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for our midstream services. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane, and other greenhouse gases (“GHGs”) present an endangerment to public heath and the environment because emissions of such gasses are contributing to the warming of the earth’s atmosphere and other climate changes, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act that require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles effective January 2, 2011 and thus triggered construction and operating permit review for GHG emissions from certain stationary sources. It is widely expected that facilities required to obtain permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to reduce those emissions according to “best available control technology” standards for GHG that have yet to be developed. These EPA rules could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified facilities. On November 30, 2010, the EPA published a final GHG emissions reporting rule relating to onshore oil and natural gas processing, transmission, storage, and distribution activities, which requires reporting beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. In addition, both houses of Congress have actively considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, and almost one-half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring either major sources of emissions or major producers of fuels to acquire and surrender emission allowances, with the number of allowances available for purchase reduced each year until the overall GHG emission reduction goal is achieved. These allowances would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. The adoption of any legislation or regulations that requires reporting of GHGs or otherwise limits emissions of GHGs from our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for the natural gas and NGLs we gather and process or fractionate. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth’s atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods and other climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our midstream operations. 37 Table of Contents We may incur significant costs and liabilities resulting from pipeline safety and integrity programs and related compliance efforts. We are subject to DOT safety regulations with respect to our natural gas lines and our NGL lines, pursuant to which the DOT has established: • requirements relating to the design, installation, testing, construction, operation, replacement and management of pipeline facilities; • mandatory inspections for all United States oil (including NGL) and natural gas transportation pipelines and gathering lines meeting certain operational risk and location requirements; and • additional safety requirements applicable to certain rural onshore hazardous liquid gathering lines and low-stress pipelines located in specified unusually sensitive areas, which address primarily corrosion and third-party damage concerns. Although many of our natural gas facilities fall within a class that is not currently subject to these requirements, we may incur significant costs and liabilities associated with repair, remediation, preventative or mitigation measures associated with non-exempt pipelines. Such costs and liabilities might relate to repair, remediation, preventative or mitigating actions that may be determined to be necessary as a result of the testing program, as well as lost cash flows resulting from shutting down our pipelines during the pendency of such repairs. Additionally, we may be affected by the testing, maintenance and repair of pipeline facilities downstream from our own facilities. Our NGL pipelines are also subject to integrity management and other safety regulations imposed by the TRRC. In response to recent major pipeline accidents, legislation has been introduced in Congress that would increase pipeline safety requirements. Among the changes being considered are new standards for excess flow and shutoff valves and public accessibility of pipeline information. Adoption of any new or expanded pipeline safety requirements could increase our cost of operation and impair our ability to provide service during the period in which assessments and repairs take place, adversely affecting our business. We are subject to environmental laws and regulations that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operation of gathering systems, plants and other facilities is subject to stringent and complex federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations can restrict or impact our business activities in many ways, including restricting the manner in which we dispose of wastes, requiring remedial action to remove or mitigate contamination, and requiring capital expenditures to comply with pollution control requirements. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations. Certain environmental statutes impose strict and, under certain circumstances, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where substances and wastes have been disposed or otherwise released. Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of substances or wastes into the environment. There is inherent risk of environmental costs and liabilities in our business as a result of our handling of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons, air emissions and waste water discharges related to our operations and historical industry operations, and waste disposal practices. For example, an accidental release from one of our pipelines or processing facilities could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. Moreover, it is possible that stricter laws, regulations or enforcement policies could significantly increase our compliance costs and the cost of any remediation that may become necessary. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. 38 Table of Contents Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be fully covered by insurance. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, our operations could be temporarily or permanently impaired, and our liabilities and expenses could be significant. Our operations are subject to the many hazards inherent in the gathering, compression, treating, processing, transportation and fractionation of natural gas and NGLs, including: • damage to pipelines, pipeline blockages and damage to related equipment and surrounding properties caused by hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, fires, extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters and acts of terrorism; • inadvertent damage from motor vehicles, construction or farm equipment; • leaks of natural gas, NGLs and other hydrocarbons; • operator error; and • fires and explosions. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. In addition, mechanical malfunctions, undetected leaks in pipelines, faulty measurement or other errors may result in significant costs or lost revenues. Our assets and operations are primarily concentrated in the Texas Gulf Coast and north Texas regions and in southwest Louisiana, central and eastern Oklahoma and in Wyoming, and a natural disaster or other hazard affecting any of these areas could have a material adverse effect on our operations, even if our own facilities are not directly affected. For example, although we did not suffer significant damage due to Hurricane Ike in September 2008, the storm damaged gathering systems and processing and NGL fractionation facilities along the Gulf Coast, including facilities owned by third-party service providers on whom we depend in providing services to our customers. Some companies were required to curtail or suspend operations, which adversely affected various energy companies with assets in the region, including us. There can be no assurance that insurance will cover all damages and losses resulting from these types of natural disasters. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. In accordance with typical industry practice, we generally do not have any property insurance on any of our underground pipeline systems that would cover damage to the pipelines. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur, other than those considered to be sudden and accidental. Our business interruption insurance covers only certain lost revenues arising from physical damage to our processing plants and certain pipeline facilities. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, our operations could be temporarily or permanently impaired, and our liabilities and expenses could be significant. Due to our limited asset diversification, adverse developments in our gathering, transportation, processing and related businesses would have a significant impact on our results of operations. Substantially all of our revenues are generated from our gathering, dehydration, treating, conditioning, processing, fractionation and transportation business, and as a result, our financial condition depends upon prices of, and continued demand for, natural gas and NGLs. Furthermore, substantially all of our assets are located in Texas, Oklahoma and Wyoming. Due to our limited diversification in asset type and location, an adverse development in one of these businesses or in these areas would have a significantly greater impact on our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition than if we maintained more diverse assets. We own interests in limited liability companies and a general partnership in which third parties also own interests, which may limit our ability to influence significant business decisions affecting these entities. In addition to our wholly owned subsidiaries, we own interests in a number of entities in which third parties also own an interest. These interests include our: • 62.5% interest in Webb Duval; • majority interest in Southern Dome; 39 Table of Contents • 51% interest in Bighorn • 37.04% interest in Fort Union; • 50% interest in Eagle Ford Gathering; and • 50% interest in Liberty Pipeline Group. Although we serve each of these entities as operator, managing member or both, certain substantive business decisions with respect to each require the majority or unanimous approval of the owners or, in the case of Bighorn, of a management committee to which we have the right to appoint 50% of the members. Examples include significant expenditures or contractual commitments, the construction or acquisition of assets, borrowing money or otherwise raising capital and transactions not in the ordinary course of business, among others. Differences in views among the owners of any of these entities could result in delayed decisions or in failures to agree on significant matters, potentially adversely affecting the business and results of operations or prospects of the entity involved and, in turn, the amounts and timing of cash from operations distributed to its members or partners, including us. In addition, we do not control the day-to-day operations of Fort Union. Our lack of control over Fort Union’s day-to-day operations and the associated costs of operations could result in our receiving lower cash distributions than we anticipate, which could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to our unitholders. Risks Related to Our Structure Our limited liability company agreement prohibits a unitholder who acquires 15% or more of our common units without the approval of our Board of Directors from engaging in a business combination with us for three years. This provision could discourage a change of control that our unitholders may favor, which could negatively affect the price of our common units. Our limited liability company agreement effectively adopts Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Section 203 as it applies to us prevents an interested unitholder, defined as a person who owns 15% or more of our outstanding units, from engaging in business combinations with us for three years following the time such person becomes an interested unitholder, except in limited circumstances. Section 203 broadly defines “business combination” to encompass a wide variety of transactions with or caused by an interested unitholder, including mergers, asset sales and other transactions in which the interested unitholder receives a benefit on other than a pro rata basis with other unitholders. This provision of our limited liability company agreement could have an anti- takeover effect with respect to transactions not approved in advance by our Board of Directors, including discouraging takeover attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for our common units. We may issue additional common units without your approval, which would dilute your existing ownership interests. Our limited liability company agreement does not limit the number of additional limited liability company interests, including common units and other equity securities that rank senior to common units, that we may issue at any time without the approval of our unitholders, and existing NASDAQ listing rules allow us to issue additional interests without unitholder approval so long as we do not exceed 20% of our common units then outstanding. In addition, our preferred units, which were approved by our common unitholders at a special meeting held in November 2010 and generally become convertible into common units beginning in July 2013, are entitled to in-kind payments of quarterly distributions for each quarter through the third quarter of 2013. We may elect to continue to pay preferred distributions in kind for each quarter through the third quarter of 2016. All preferred units that we issue in payment of quarterly preferred units in kind will be convertible into common units. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • your proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit will be diminished; and • the market price of our common units may decline. 40 Table of Contents Certain of our investors may sell units in the public market, which could reduce the market price of our outstanding common units. We have agreed to file a registration statement on Form S-3 to cover sales by TPG of all common units issuable upon conversion of our outstanding preferred units and additional preferred units that we issue as in-kind quarterly distributions. If TPG or a successor to its registration rights were to dispose of a substantial portion of these common units in the public market, whether in a single transaction or series of transactions, it could adversely affect the market price for our common units. In addition, these sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, could make it more difficult for us to sell our common units in the future. Our limited liability company agreement provides for a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If, at any time, any person owns more than 90% of our common units then outstanding, such person has the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units then outstanding at a price not less than the then-current market price of our common units. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may therefore not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur tax liability upon a sale of your units. Increases in interest rates could adversely affect our unit price. Interest rates on future credit facilities and debt offerings could be higher than current levels, causing our financing costs to increase accordingly. An increase in interest rates could also cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments, in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Lower demand for our common units for any reason, including competition from other more attractive investment opportunities, would likely cause the trading price of our common units to decline. If we issue additional equity at a significantly lower price, material dilution to our existing unitholders could result. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or we were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state purposes, it would substantially reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS with respect to this or any other tax matter. Despite the fact that we are a limited liability company under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a publicly traded limited liability company such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we should be so treated, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject limited liability companies to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax at a maximum effective rate of 0.7% of our federal gross income apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of such a tax on us by any other state will further reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Moreover, federal legislation that would eliminate pass-through tax treatment for certain publicly traded limited liability companies is proposed from time to time. We cannot predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Additionally, any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. 41 Table of Contents If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rates, currently at a maximum rate of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gain, loss or deduction would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed on us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders and would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted, and the costs of any IRS contest will reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may disagree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. You will be required to pay taxes on the share of our income allocated to you even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income, you will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, regardless of the amount of any distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our common units could be more or less than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable income decrease your tax basis in your common units, the amount, if any, of such prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price greater than your tax basis in those units, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. Furthermore, a substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder’s share of our nonrecourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, including employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to such a unitholder. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. If you are a tax-exempt entity or a non-U.S. person, you should consult your tax advisor before investing in our units. 42 Table of Contents We treat each purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. To maintain the uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of our common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform with all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain on the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audits of and adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the U.S. Treasury Department issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Nonetheless, the proposed regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method or new Treasury Regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing and lending their units. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any twelve-month period will result in the technical termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. While we would continue our existence as a Delaware limited liability company, our technical termination would, among other things result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in our filing two tax returns for one fiscal year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. A technical termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes; rather, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a termination occurred. 43 Table of Contents As a result of investing in our common units, you may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where you do not live. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if our unitholders do not reside in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these jurisdictions. Further, unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently conduct business and own assets in several states, most of which currently impose a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may conduct business or own assets in other jurisdictions that impose a personal income tax. It is the responsibility of each unitholder to file all of the unitholder’s required U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 