ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related To Our Business We and the Investment Advisor commenced operations in July 2004 and have a limited operating history and may not be able to implement our operating policies and strategies successfully. We began operations in July 2004 and, therefore, have a limited operating history and may not be able to implement our operating policies and strategies successfully. The Investment Advisor also has a limited operating history. The results of our operations depend on many factors, including, without limitation, the availability of office, retail, industrial, and multi-family residential properties for acquisition, readily accessible short- and long-term funding alternatives in the financial markets and economic conditions. Moreover, delays in investing the net proceeds of our public offerings may reduce our income. Our shareholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the manner in which the net proceeds received by us from our public offerings are to be invested or the economic merits of particular assets to be acquired. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to operate our business successfully or implement our operating policies and strategies. The Investment Advisor has limited experience operating a REIT and we cannot assure you that the past experience of its management will be sufficient to successfully manage our business as a REIT. The Investment Advisor has limited experience operating a REIT, and the Investment Advisor has limited direct experience in complying with the income, asset and other limitations imposed by the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. Those provisions are complex and the failure to comply with those provisions in a timely manner could cause us to fail to qualify as a REIT or could force us to pay unexpected taxes and penalties. The Investment Advisor’s limited experience in managing a portfolio of assets under such constraints may hinder its ability to achieve our investment objectives. We can offer no assurance that the Investment Advisor will replicate CBRE Investors’ historical success or our management team’s success in its previous endeavors. You must rely entirely upon the ability of the Investment Advisor with respect to the investment in and management of unspecified assets, and you will not have an opportunity to evaluate for yourself the relevant economic, financial and other information regarding the assets in which the proceeds of our public offerings will be invested. Our ability to achieve our investment objectives and to pay dividends is dependent upon the performance of the Investment Advisor, the real estate market and general economic conditions in the geographic regions where we invest. You must rely totally on the Investment Advisor in the selection of assets. We cannot be sure that the Investment Advisor will be successful in obtaining suitable investments on financially attractive terms or that, if investments are made, our objectives will be achieved. You should be aware that any appraisals we obtain are merely estimates of value and should not be relied upon as accurate measures of true worth or realizable value. 16 Table of Contents We are dependent on the Investment Advisor and may not find a suitable replacement if the advisory agreement is terminated, in which case we may not be able to operate our business. We have no employees and are completely reliant on the Investment Advisor, which has significant discretion as to the implementation and execution of our operating policies and strategies. We depend on the diligence, skill and network of business contacts of the management of our Investment Advisor, and, through our sponsor, CBRE Investors. We can offer no assurance that the Investment Advisor will remain our investment advisor or that we will continue to have access to the Investment Advisor’s professionals, and, through the Investment Advisor, the resources and experience of CBRE Investors. We are subject to the risk that the advisory agreement may be terminated by either party. If the advisory agreement is terminated and no suitable replacement is found to manage us or key personnel leave our Investment Advisor, we may not be able to execute our business plan. If the Investment Advisor loses or is unable to obtain key personnel, our ability to implement our investment strategies could be delayed or hindered. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain key personnel of the Investment Advisor who would be difficult to replace. None of our key personnel are currently subject to employment agreements with us, nor do we maintain any key person life insurance on these key personnel. If the Investment Advisor were to lose the benefit of the experience, efforts and abilities of one or more of these individuals, our operating results could suffer. We also believe that our future success depends, in large part, upon the Investment Advisor’s ability to obtain and retain highly skilled managerial, operational and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you the Investment Advisor will be successful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. Your investment return may be reduced if we are required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. We do not intend to invest in marketable securities and we do not intend to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, (“the Investment Company Act”). If we were obligated to register as an investment company, we would have to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things: • limitations on capital structure; • restrictions on specified investments; • prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; and • compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses. In general, we expect to be able to rely on the exemption from registration provided by Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act. In order to qualify for this exemption, at least 55% of our portfolio must be comprised of real property and mortgages and other liens on an interest in real estate (collectively, “qualifying assets”) and at least 80% of our portfolio must be comprised of real estate-related assets. Qualifying assets include mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities that represent the entire ownership in a pool of mortgage loans and other interests in real estate. In order to maintain our exemption from regulation under the Investment Company Act, we must continue to engage primarily in the business of buying real estate, and these investments must be made within a year after our offering ends. If we are unable to invest a significant portion of the proceeds of our offering in properties within one year of the termination of our offering, we may be able to avoid being required to register as an investment company by temporarily investing any unused proceeds in government securities with low returns. This would reduce the cash available for distribution to shareholders and possibly lower your returns. 17 Table of Contents To maintain compliance with the Investment Company Act exemption, we may be unable to sell assets we would otherwise want to sell and may need to sell assets we would otherwise wish to retain. In addition, we may have to acquire additional income or loss generating assets that we might not otherwise have acquired or may have to forego opportunities to acquire interests in companies that we would otherwise want to acquire and would be important to our investment strategy. If we were required to register as an investment company we would be prohibited from engaging in our business as currently contemplated because the Investment Company Act imposes significant limitations on leverage. In addition, we would have to seek to restructure the advisory agreement because the compensation that it contemplates would not comply with the Investment Company Act. Criminal and civil actions could also be brought against us if we failed to comply with the Investment Company Act. In addition, our contracts would be unenforceable unless a court were to require enforcement, and a court could appoint a receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business. Conflicts of Interest Risks The Investment Advisor faces conflicts of interest relating to time management. Although the Investment Advisor does not currently advise any other real estate investment programs, the Investment Advisor’s affiliates, including CBRE Investors, are sponsors of other real estate programs having investment objectives and legal and financial obligations similar to ours. In addition, certain members of the management team of the Investment Advisor may also work with or for other affiliates. As a result, they may have interests in other real estate programs and also engage in other business activities, and may have conflicts of interest in allocating their time between our business and these other activities. During times of intense activity in other programs and ventures, they may devote less time and resources to our business than is necessary or appropriate. If the Investment Advisor, for any reason, is not able to provide investment opportunities to us consistent with our investment objectives in a timely manner, we may have lower returns on our investments. The Investment Advisor faces conflicts of interest relating to the purchase and leasing of assets. We may be buying assets at the same time as other existing or future affiliates of the Investment Advisor are buying assets. There is a risk that the Investment Advisor will choose an asset that provides lower returns to us than an asset purchased by an affiliate of the Investment Advisor. We may acquire assets in geographic areas where other affiliates own assets. If another affiliate attracts a tenant that we are competing for, we could suffer a loss of revenue due to delays in locating another suitable tenant. The Investment Advisor may have conflicting fiduciary obligations if we acquire properties with its affiliates or other related entities; as a result, in any such transaction we may not have the benefit of arm’s length negotiations of the type normally conducted between unrelated parties. The Investment Advisor may cause us to acquire an interest in a property from its affiliates or through a joint venture with its affiliates or to dispose of an interest in a property to its affiliates. In these circumstances, the Investment Advisor will have a conflict of interest when fulfilling its fiduciary obligation to us. In any such transaction we may not have the benefit of arm’s length negotiations of the type normally conducted between unrelated parties. We pay substantial fees and expenses to the Investment Advisor, its affiliates and the Dealer Manager, which payments increase the risk that you will not earn a profit on your investment. The Investment Advisor and its affiliates perform services for us in connection with the selection and acquisition of our investments, the management and leasing of our properties and the administration of our other investments. We pay the Investment Advisor an acquisition fee that is not tied to the performance of our portfolio. The Investment Advisor is a party to a sub-advisory agreement with the CNL Fund Management Company, which is an affiliate of the Dealer Manager, and the Investment Advisor will compensate the Sub-Advisor through certain fees and reimbursable expenses the Investment Advisor receives from us. We pay 18 Table of Contents fees and commissions to the Dealer Manager in connection with the offer and sale of the shares. We also have issued to CBRE REIT Holdings LLC, an affiliate of the Investment Advisor, one class B limited partnership interest (representing 100% of the class B interest outstanding) in CBRE OP in exchange for the services provided to us relating to our formation and future services. Our sponsor (including certain of its executive officers) and our executive officers own an aggregate 75.1% distribution interest and affiliates of the Dealer Manager own an aggregate 24.9% distribution interest (excluding distributions that CBRE Investors is entitled to with respect to 29,937 class A units) in CBRE REIT Holdings LLC. These fees and partnership interest distributions reduce the amount of cash available for investment in properties or distribution to shareholders. These fees also increase the risk that the amount available for distribution to common shareholders upon a liquidation of our portfolio would be less than the purchase price of the shares in our current public offering and that you may not earn a profit on your investment. Termination of the Advisory Agreement could be costly. If the advisory agreement is terminated without cause, CBRE OP will redeem the class B limited partnership interest for a newly created class of partnership interest, which we refer to as the advisor redemption interest, which shall initially have a capital account equal to the fair value of the class B limited partnership interest as of such date, and if the advisory agreement is terminated for cause, CBRE OP will redeem the class B limited partnership interest for $100. These provisions may increase the effective cost to us of terminating the advisory agreement, thereby discouraging us from terminating the Investment Advisor without cause. Certain of our officers and trustees face conflicts of interest. Our Chief Financial Officer serves as a Managing Director of the Investment Advisor, as the Executive Managing Director and Global Head of Investment Reporting of CBRE Investors, our sponsor and as a member of the investment committee of CB Richard Ellis Strategic Partners Asia II-A, L.P., or CBRE Strategic Partners Asia, an entity in which we are a limited partner. Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer serves as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Investment Advisor and also serves as a Managing Director of CBRE Investors. Our Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President serves as the Director of Operations of the Investment Advisor. Our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer directly hold an aggregate 12.9% economic interest in the Investment Advisor. These individuals owe fiduciary duties to these entities and their shareholders. Such fiduciary duties may from time to time conflict with the fiduciary duties owed to our shareholders and us. An affiliate of the Investment Advisor owns one class B limited partnership interest (representing 100% of the class B interest outstanding) in CBRE OP. This interest entitles such affiliate to receive distributions in an amount equal to a percentage of the net proceeds we receive from a sale of a property after certain amounts are paid or provided for. This interest may incentivize the Investment Advisor to recommend the sale of a property or properties that may not be in our best interest at the time. In addition, the premature sale of a property may add concentration risk to the portfolio or may be at a price lower than if we held on to the property and sold it at a later date. We will be subject to additional risks as a result of any joint ventures. We have entered, and may in the future enter, into joint ventures for the acquisition, development or improvement of properties. We have purchased and developed, and may in the future purchase and develop, properties in joint ventures or in partnerships, co-tenancies or other co-ownership arrangements with sellers of properties, affiliates of sellers, developers or other persons. Such investments may involve risks not otherwise present with an investment in real estate, including, for example: • the possibility that our co-venturer, co-tenant or partner in an investment might become bankrupt; • that maturities of debt encumbering our jointly owned investments may not be able to be refinanced at all or on terms that are as favorable as the current terms; 19 Table of Contents • that such co-venturer, co-tenant or partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals which are or become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; or • that such co-venturer, co-tenant or partner may be in a position to take action contrary to our instructions or requests or contrary to our policies or objectives. Actions by such a co-venturer, co-tenant or partner might have the result of subjecting the property to liabilities in excess of those contemplated and may have the effect of reducing your returns. We have ownership interests in three unconsolidated entities that, as of December 31, 2008, owned interests in 18 properties. It may be difficult for us to exit a joint venture after an impasse. In our joint ventures, there will be a potential risk of impasse in some business decisions because our approval and the approval of each co-venturer may be required for some significant operating decisions. In any joint venture, we may have the right to buy the other co-venturer’s interest or to sell our own interest on specified terms and conditions in the event of an impasse. In the event of an impasse, it is possible that neither party will have the funds necessary to complete a buy-out. In addition, we may experience difficulty in locating a third-party purchaser for our joint venture interest and in obtaining a favorable sale price for the interest. As a result, it is possible that we may not be able to exit the relationship if an impasse develops. Our ability to redeem all or a portion of our investment in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia is subject to significant restrictions. CBRE Strategic Partners Asia is not obligated to redeem the interests of any of its investors, including us, prior to 2017. Except in certain limited circumstances such as transfers to affiliates or successor trustees or state agencies, we will not be permitted to sell our interest in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia without the prior written consent of the general partner, which the general partner may withhold in its sole discretion. General Investment Risks No market currently exists for our common shares. If you are able to sell your shares, you would likely have to sell them at a substantial discount. There is no current market for our shares and, therefore, it will be difficult for you to sell your shares promptly. We can not assure you that any trading market will develop or, if developed, that any such market will be sustained. Additionally, our declaration of trust contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our shares, and these restrictions may inhibit your ability to sell your shares. You may not sell your shares unless the buyer meets applicable suitability and minimum purchase standards. Therefore, it will be difficult for you to sell your shares promptly or at all. In addition, the price received for any shares sold is likely to be less than the proportionate value of the real estate we own. Therefore, you should purchase our shares only as a long-term investment. We are conducting a “best efforts” offering and if we are unable to raise substantial funds, we may have substantial limitations on our ability to achieve a diversified portfolio of assets. The Dealer Manager is selling our shares on a “best efforts” basis, whereby it and the other broker-dealers participating in our current public offering are only required to use their best efforts to sell our common shares and have no firm commitment or obligation to purchase any of our common shares. As a result, the amount of proceeds we raise in our current public offering may be substantially less than the amount we would need to achieve a broadly diversified portfolio. If we only sell a small number of shares offered in our current public offering, we may purchase fewer properties resulting in less diversification of the number of assets we own, the types of assets in which we invest, the geographic regions of our properties and the industry types of our tenants. The likelihood of our profitability being affected by any one of our investments will also increase. Your investment in shares will be subject to greater risk to the extent that we lack a diversified asset portfolio. 20 Table of Contents Restrictions on ownership of a controlling percentage of our shares may limit your opportunity to receive a premium on your shares. To assist us in complying with the share ownership requirements necessary for us to qualify as a REIT, our declaration of trust prohibits, with certain exceptions, direct or constructive ownership by any person of more than 3.0% by number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding common shares or more than 3.0% by number or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares. Our Board of Trustees, in its sole discretion, may exempt a person from the share ownership limit. Our Board of Trustees has waived this limitation for CBRE Investors and the Stein Trusts. This waiver applies only to shares such persons already own, and not to further purchases unless approved by our Board of Trustees. Additionally, our declaration of trust prohibits direct or constructive ownership of our shares that would otherwise result in our failure to qualify as a REIT. The constructive ownership rules in our declaration of trust are complex and may cause the outstanding shares owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than any ownership limit by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity to own constructively in excess of any ownership limit of our outstanding shares. Any attempt to own or transfer our shares in excess of the ownership limit without the consent of our Board of Trustees shall be void, and will result in the shares being transferred to a charitable trust. These provisions may inhibit market activity and the resulting opportunity for our shareholders to receive a premium for their shares that might otherwise exist if any person were to attempt to assemble a block of our shares in excess of the number of shares permitted under our declaration of trust and which may be in the best interests of our shareholders. Maryland takeover statutes could restrict a change of control, which could have the affect of inhibiting a change in control even if a change in control were in our shareholder’s interests. Under Maryland law, certain “business combinations” between a Maryland REIT and an interested shareholder or an affiliate of an interested shareholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested shareholder becomes an interested shareholder. These business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or asset transfers or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. An interested shareholder is defined as: • any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our company’s shares; or • an affiliate or associate of our company who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting shares of our company. A person is not an interested shareholder under the statute if our Board of Trustees approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested shareholder. After the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the Maryland REIT and an interested shareholder generally must be recommended by our Board of Trustees and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: • 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting shares of our company; and • 66% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting shares of our company other than shares held by the interested shareholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or by the interested shareholder’s affiliates or associates, voting together as a single group. The business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interest of our shareholders. 21 Table of Contents Our Board of Trustees has adopted a resolution exempting our company from the provisions of the Maryland General Corporate Law (the “MGCL”) relating to business combinations with interested shareholders or affiliates of interested shareholders. However, such resolution can be altered or repealed, in whole or in part, at any time by our Board of Trustees. If such resolution is repealed, the business combination statute could have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and of increasing the difficulty of consummating these offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders’ best interests. Maryland law also limits the ability of a third-party to buy a large stake in us and exercise voting power in electing trustees. The MGCL, as applicable to REITs, provides that “control shares” of a Maryland real estate investment trust acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquiror, by officers or by directors who are employees of the corporation. “Control shares” are voting shares that would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing trustees within specified ranges of voting power. Control shares do not include shares the acquiring person is then entitled to vote as a result of having previously obtained shareholder approval. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares. The control share acquisition statute does not apply (i) to shares acquired in a merger, consolidation or share exchange if we are a party to the transaction, or (ii) to acquisitions approved or exempted by our declaration of trust or bylaws. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting from the control share acquisition statute any and all acquisitions by any person of our shares. We cannot assure you that such provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. If such provision is eliminated, the control share acquisition statute could have the effect of discouraging offers to acquire us and increasing the difficulty of consummating any such offers, even if our acquisition would be in our shareholders’ best interests. You are limited in your ability to sell your shares pursuant to our share redemption program. Our share redemption program provides you with the opportunity, on a quarterly basis, to request that we redeem all or a portion of your shares after you have held them for one year, subject to certain restrictions and limitations. In the event that an eligible shareholder presents fewer than all of his or her shares to us for redemption, such shareholder must present at least 25% of his or her shares to us for redemption and must retain at least $5,000 of common shares if any shares are held after such redemption. Shares will be redeemed only to the extent of cash available after the payment of dividends necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT and to avoid the payment of any U.S. federal income tax or excise tax on our net taxable income. This will significantly limit our ability to redeem your shares. To the extent our available cash flow is insufficient to fund all redemption requests, each shareholder’s request will be reduced on a pro rata basis, unless you withdraw your request for redemption or ask that we carry over your request to the next quarterly period, if any, when sufficient funds become available. Our Board of Trustees reserves the right to amend or terminate the share redemption program at any time. Our Board of Trustees has delegated to our officers the right to waive the one-year holding period and pro rata redemption requirements in the event of the death, disability (as such term is defined in the Internal Revenue Code) or bankruptcy of a shareholder. You will have no right to request redemption of your shares should our shares become listed on a national exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market or the Nasdaq Global Market. Therefore, in making a decision to purchase shares, you should not assume that you will be able to sell any of your shares back to us pursuant to our share redemption program. We established the offering price on an arbitrary basis. Our Board of Trustees has arbitrarily determined the selling price of the shares being offered in our current public offering. The offering price of our common shares is fixed and will not vary based on the underlying value of our assets at any time. The offering price of our common shares has not been based on appraisals for any assets we currently own or may own nor do we currently intend to obtain such appraisals. Therefore, the fixed offering price established for our common shares may not accurately represent the current value of our assets per 22 Table of Contents common share at any particular time and may be higher or lower than the actual value of our assets per common share at such time. In addition, our offering price may not be indicative of the price at which our shares would trade if they were listed on an exchange or actively traded by brokers nor of the proceeds that a shareholder would receive if we were liquidated or dissolved. Investors who purchased common shares in our offering incurred, as of December 31, 2008, an immediate dilution of up to approximately $(1.40), or (14.10)%, in the book value per share of our common shares from the price paid in our offering. Investors purchasing common shares in our offering may experience further dilution if we issue additional equity. The initial offering price of our common shares is substantially higher than the book value per share of our outstanding common shares will be after our offering. Therefore, investors who purchase our common shares will incur, if calculated as of December 31, 2008, an immediate dilution of up to approximately $(1.40), or (14.10)%, in the book value per share of our common shares from the price paid in our offering. Existing shareholders and potential investors in our offering do not have preemptive rights to any common shares issued by us in the future. Therefore, investors purchasing shares in our offering may experience further dilution of their equity investment in the event that we sell additional common shares in the future, if we sell securities that are convertible into common shares or if we issue shares upon the exercise of options. We may be unable to pay or maintain cash distributions or increase distributions over time. There are many factors that can affect the availability and timing of cash distributions to shareholders. Distributions will be based principally on cash available from our operations. The amount of cash available for distributions is affected by many factors, such as our ability to buy properties as offering proceeds become available, rental income from such properties, and our operating expense levels, as well as many other variables. Actual cash available for distributions may vary substantially from estimates. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to pay or maintain our current anticipated level of distributions or that distributions will increase over time. We cannot give any assurance that rents from the properties will increase, or that future acquisitions of real properties or other real estate assets will increase our cash available for distributions to shareholders. Our actual results may differ significantly from the assumptions used by our Board of Trustees in establishing the distribution rate to shareholders. We may not have sufficient legally available cash from operations to make a distribution required to qualify for or maintain our REIT status. We may increase borrowings or use proceeds from our current public offering to make distributions, each of which could be deemed to be a return of investors’ capital. We may make distributions from the proceeds of our current public offering or from borrowings in anticipation of future cash flow. Any such distributions will constitute a return of capital and may reduce the amount of capital we ultimately invest in properties and negatively impact the value of investors’ investment. The amount and timing of cash dividends is uncertain. Subject to certain limitations, we bear all expenses incurred in our operations, which reduces cash generated by operations and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders. In addition, our Board of Trustees, in its discretion, may retain any portion of such funds for working capital, subject to the REIT distribution requirements. We have not set any future dividend payment amount and cannot assure you that sufficient cash will be available to pay dividends to you. We are uncertain of our sources for funding of future capital needs. Substantially all of the net proceeds of the offering will be used for investment in assets and for payment of various fees and expenses. Accordingly, in the event that we develop a need for additional capital in the future for the improvement of our assets or for any other reason, we will need to identify sources for such funding, other than reserves we may establish, and we cannot assure you that such sources of funding will be available to us for capital needs in the future. 23 Table of Contents We are authorized to issue preferred shares. The issuance of preferred shares could adversely affect the holders of our common shares issued pursuant to our public offerings. Our declaration of trust authorizes us to issue 1,000,000,000 shares, of which 10,000,000 shares are designated as preferred shares. Subject to approval by our Board of Trustees, we may issue preferred shares with rights, preferences, and privileges that are more beneficial than the rights, preferences, and privileges of our common shares. Holders of our common shares do not have preemptive rights to acquire any shares issued by us in the future. If we ever create and issue preferred shares with a distribution preference over common shares, payment of any distribution preferences on outstanding preferred shares would reduce the amount of funds available for the payment of distributions on our common shares. In addition, holders of preferred shares are normally entitled to receive a preference payment in the event we liquidate, dissolve or wind up before any payment is made to our common shareholders, thereby reducing the amount a common shareholder might otherwise receive upon such an occurrence. In addition, under certain circumstances, the issuance of preferred shares may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company. Our Board of Trustees may change our investment policies without shareholder approval, which could alter the nature of investors’ investments. Our declaration of trust requires that our independent trustees review our investment policies at least annually to determine that the policies we are following are in the best interest of the shareholders. These policies may change over time. The methods of implementing our investment policies may also vary, as new real estate development trends emerge and new investment techniques are developed. Our investment policies, the methods for their implementation, and our other objectives, policies and procedures may be altered by our Board of Trustees without the approval of our shareholders. As a result, the nature of investors’ investments could change without investors’ consent. General Real Estate Risks Real estate investments are long-term illiquid investments and may be difficult to sell in response to changing economic conditions. Real estate investments are subject to certain inherent risks. Real estate investments are generally long-term investments that cannot be quickly converted to cash. Real estate investments are also subject to adverse changes in general economic conditions or local conditions that may reduce the demand for office, retail, industrial, multi-family residential or other types of properties. Other factors can also affect real estate values, including: • possible international and U.S. federal, state or local regulations and controls affecting rents, prices of goods, fuel and energy consumption and prices, water and environmental restrictions; • increasing labor and material costs; • the perceptions of tenants and prospective tenants of the convenience, attractiveness and safety of our properties; • competition from comparable properties; • the occupancy rate of our properties; • the ability to collect on a timely basis all rents from tenants; • the effects of any bankruptcies or insolvencies of major tenants; • civil unrest; • acts of nature, including earthquakes, hurricanes and other natural disasters (which may result in uninsured losses); • acts of terrorism or war; • rises in operating costs, taxes and insurance costs; 24 Table of Contents • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funding; and • other factors which are beyond our control. Increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and adversely affect our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We expect that we will incur additional indebtedness in the future. Interest we pay could reduce cash available for distributions. Additionally, if we incur variable rate debt, increases in interest rates would increase our interest costs, which would reduce our cash flows and our ability to pay dividends to you. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times which may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. Adverse economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we purchase properties may negatively impact your overall returns. Adverse economic conditions in the geographic regions in which we buy our properties could affect real estate values in these regions and, to the extent that any of our tenants in these regions rely upon the local economy for their revenues, our tenants’ businesses could also be affected by such conditions. Therefore, changes in local economic conditions could reduce our ability to pay dividends and the amounts we could otherwise receive upon a sale of a property in a negatively affected region. Adverse economic conditions affecting the particular industries of our tenants may negatively impact your overall returns. Adverse economic conditions affecting a particular industry of one or more of our tenants could affect the financial ability of one or more of our tenants to make payments under their leases, which could cause delays in our receipt of rental revenues or a vacancy in one or more of our properties for a period of time. Therefore, changes in economic conditions of the particular industry of one or more of our tenants could reduce our ability to pay dividends and the value of one or more of our properties at the time of sale of such properties. Because we are dependent on our tenants for substantially all of our revenue, our success is materially dependent on the financial stability of our tenants. Lease payment defaults by tenants could cause us to reduce the amount of distributions to shareholders. A default of a tenant on its lease payments would cause us to lose the revenue from the property. In the event of such a default, we may experience delays in enforcing our rights as landlord and may incur substantial costs in protecting our investment and leasing our property. If a lease is terminated, we cannot assure you that we will be able to lease the property for the rent previously received or sell the property without incurring a loss. A default by a tenant, the failure of a guarantor to fulfill its obligations or other premature termination of a lease, or a tenant’s election not to extend a lease upon its expiration, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to pay distributions. Certain of our properties are occupied by only a single tenant and, therefore, the success of those properties will be materially dependent on the financial stability of such tenants. If one or more of our tenants file for bankruptcy protection, we may be precluded from collecting all sums due. If one or more of our tenants, or the guarantor of a tenant’s lease, commences, or has commenced against it, any proceeding under any provision of the U.S. federal bankruptcy code, as amended, or any other legal or equitable proceeding under any bankruptcy, insolvency, rehabilitation, receivership or debtor’s relief statute or law (bankruptcy proceeding), we may be unable to collect sums due under relevant leases. Any or all of the tenants, or a guarantor of a tenant’s lease obligations, could be subject to a bankruptcy proceeding. 25 Table of Contents Such a bankruptcy proceeding may bar our efforts to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from these entities or their properties, unless we are able to obtain an enabling order from the bankruptcy court. If a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would only have a general unsecured claim against the tenant, and may not be entitled to any further payments under the lease. A tenant’s or lease guarantor’s bankruptcy proceeding could hinder or delay efforts to collect past due balances under relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. Such an event could cause a decrease or cessation of rental payments which would mean a reduction in our cash flow and the amount available for distribution to our shareholders. In the event of a bankruptcy proceeding, we cannot assure you that the tenant or its trustee will assume our lease. If a given lease, or guaranty of a lease, is not assumed, our cash flow and the amounts available for distribution to our shareholders may be adversely affected. If third party managers providing property management services for certain of our properties or their personnel are negligent in their performance of, or default on, their management obligations, our tenants may not renew their leases or we may become subject to unforeseen liabilities. If this occurs, our financial condition and operating results, as well as our ability to pay dividends to shareholders at historical levels or at all, could be substantially harmed. We have entered into agreements with third party management companies to provide property management services for certain of our properties, and we expect to enter into similar third party management agreements with respect to properties we acquire in the future. We cannot supervise these third party managers and their personnel on a day-to-day basis and we cannot assure you that they will manage our properties in a manner that is consistent with their obligations under our agreements, that they will not be negligent in their performance or engage in other criminal or fraudulent activity, or that these managers will not otherwise default on their management obligations to us. If any of the foregoing occurs, our relationships with our tenants could be damaged, which may prevent the tenants from renewing their leases, and we could incur liabilities resulting from loss or injury to our properties or to persons at our properties. If we are unable to lease our properties or we become subject to significant liabilities as a result of third party management performance issues, our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to pay distributions to our shareholders, could be adversely affected. We may obtain only limited warranties when we purchase a property and would have only limited recourse in the event our due diligence did not identify any issues that lower the value of our property. The seller of a property often sells such property in its “as is” condition on a “where is” basis and “with all faults,” without any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular use or purpose. In addition, purchase agreements may contain only limited warranties, representations and indemnifications that will only survive for a limited period after the closing. The purchase of properties with limited warranties increases the risk that we may lose some or all of our invested capital in the property as well as the loss of rental income from that property. We may not have funding for future tenant improvements, which may reduce your returns and make it difficult to attract one or more new tenants. When a tenant at one of our properties does not renew its lease or otherwise vacates its space in one of our buildings, it is likely that, in order to attract one or more new tenants, we will be required to expend substantial funds for tenant improvements and tenant refurbishments to the vacated space and other lease-up costs. Substantially all of our net offering proceeds available for investment may be used for investment in real estate properties. We may maintain working capital reserves but cannot guarantee they will be adequate. We also have no identified funding source to provide funds that may be required in the future for tenant improvements, tenant refurbishments and other lease-up costs in order to attract new tenants. We cannot assure you that any such source of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future and, to the extent we are required to use net cash from operations to fund such tenant improvements, tenant refurbishments and other lease-up costs, cash distributions to our shareholders will be reduced. 26 Table of Contents A property that incurs a significant vacancy could be difficult to sell or lease. A property may incur a vacancy either by the continued default of a tenant under its lease or the expiration of one of our leases. Some of our properties may be specifically suited to the particular needs of the tenant based on the type of business the tenant operates. We may have difficulty obtaining a new tenant for any vacant space in our properties, particularly if the space limits the types of businesses that can use the space without major renovation. If a vacancy on any of our properties continues for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash to be distributed to shareholders. In addition, the resale value of the property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property may depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property. Uninsured losses relating to real property may adversely affect your returns. In the event that any of our properties incurs a casualty loss that is not fully covered by insurance, the value of our assets will be reduced by any such uninsured loss. In addition, we may have limited funding to repair or reconstruct the damaged property, and we cannot assure you that any such source of funding will be available to us for such purposes in the future. Furthermore, insurance may be unavailable or uneconomical. In particular, insurance coverage relating to flood or earthquake damage or terrorist acts may not be available or affordable. Development and construction of our properties may result in delays and increased costs and risks. We have invested, and may in the future invest, some or all of the net proceeds available for investment in the acquisition and development of properties upon which we (or a joint venture partner) will develop and construct improvements. We will be subject to risks relating to the builder’s ability to control construction costs or to build in conformity with plans, specifications and timetables. The builder’s failure to perform may necessitate legal action by us to rescind the purchase or the construction contract or to compel performance. Performance may also be affected or delayed by conditions beyond the builder’s control. Delays in completion of construction could also give tenants the right to terminate pre-construction leases for space at a newly developed project. We may incur additional risks when we make periodic progress payments or other advances to such builders prior to completion of construction. Factors such as those discussed above can result in increased costs of a project or loss of our investment, which could adversely impact our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. In addition, we may not be able to find suitable tenants to lease our newly constructed projects. Furthermore, we must rely upon projections of rental income and expenses and estimates of the fair market value of a property upon completion of construction when agreeing upon a price to be paid for the property at the time of acquisition of the property. If our projections are inaccurate, we may pay too much for a property. Competition for investments may increase costs and reduce returns. We experience competition for real property investments from corporations, other real estate investment trusts, pension plans and other entities engaged in real estate investment activities. In addition, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investments may increase. Any such increase would result in increased demand for these assets and therefore increased prices paid for them. If we pay higher prices for properties and other investments, our profitability will be reduced and investors may experience a lower return on their investments. Delays in acquisitions of properties may adversely affect your investment and reduce returns. Delays we encounter in the selection, acquisition and development of properties could adversely affect your returns. When we acquire properties prior to the start of construction or during the early stages of construction, it typically takes several months to complete construction and rent available space. Therefore, you could suffer delays in the distribution of cash dividends attributable to any such properties. 27 Table of Contents Uncertain market conditions and the broad discretion of the Investment Advisor relating to the future disposition of properties could adversely affect the return on your investment. We intend to hold the various real properties in which we invest until such time as the Investment Advisor determines that the sale or other disposition thereof appears to be advantageous to achieve our investment objectives or until it appears that such objectives will not be met. The Investment Advisor, subject to the approval in certain cases of our Board of Trustees, may exercise its discretion as to whether and when to sell a property. We have no obligation to sell properties at any particular time, except that if our shares are not listed on a national securities exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market or the Nasdaq Global Market on or before December 31, 2011, our declaration of trust requires our Board of Trustees to consider (but is not required to commence) an orderly liquidation of our assets, which liquidation would require the approval of our shareholders and could last several years. We cannot predict with any certainty the various market conditions affecting real estate investments that will exist at any particular time in the future. Due to the uncertainty of market conditions that may affect the future disposition of our properties, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sell our properties at a profit in the future. Accordingly, the extent to which you will receive cash distributions and realize potential appreciation on our real estate investments will be dependent upon fluctuating market conditions. General economic conditions may affect the timing of the sale of our properties and the purchase price we receive. We may be unable to sell a property if or when we decide to do so. The real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, the availability of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand for real estate investments, all of which are beyond our control. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on terms that are acceptable to us. Further, we cannot predict the length of time that will be needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We may acquire or finance properties with lock-out provisions, which may prohibit us from selling a property, or may require us to maintain specified debt levels for a period of years on some properties. Lock-out provisions, which preclude pre-payments of a loan, could materially restrict us from selling or otherwise disposing of or refinancing properties. These provisions would affect our ability to turn our investments into cash and thus affect cash available for distributions to investors. Lock-out provisions may prohibit us from reducing the outstanding indebtedness with respect to any properties, refinancing such indebtedness on a non-recourse basis at maturity, or increasing the amount of indebtedness with respect to such properties. Lock-out provisions could impair our ability to take other actions during the lock-out period that could be in the best interests of our shareholders and, therefore, may have an adverse impact on the value of the shares, relative to the value that would result if the lock-out provisions did not exist. In particular, lock-out provisions could preclude us from participating in major transactions that could result in a disposition of our assets or a change in control even though that disposition or change in control might be in the best interests of our shareholders. A concentration of our investments in a limited number of property classes may leave our profitability vulnerable to a downturn in such sectors. At any one time, a significant portion of our property investments may be in a limited number of property classes. As of December 31, 2008, a majority of our investments were in two property classes, office and industrial (primarily warehouse/distribution). As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in these classes. The potential effects on our revenues, and as a result on cash available for distribution to our shareholders, resulting from a downturn in the business conducted on those properties could be more pronounced than if we had a more diversified portfolio. 28 Table of Contents Geographic concentration of our portfolio may make us particularly susceptible to adverse economic developments in those geographic areas. A concentration of our properties in a particular geographic area may impact our operating results and abilities to make distributions if that area is impacted by negative economic developments. Your investment will be subject to greater risk to the extent that we lack a geographically diversified portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 45.88% of our portfolio (based on approximate total acquisition costs, with our unconsolidated properties included at our pro rata share of effective ownership, however, excluding our investments in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia, Duke Realty and Afton Ridge) consisted of properties located in North Carolina and South Carolina and, consequently, our financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders could be adversely affected by any significant adverse developments in those markets. Economic conditions may adversely affect our income. U.S. and international markets are currently experiencing increased levels of volatility due to a combination of many factors, including decreasing values of home prices, limited access to credit markets, less consumer spending and fears of a national and global recession. The effects of the current market dislocation may persist as financial institutions continue to take the necessary steps to restructure their business and capital structures. As a result, this economic downturn has reduced demand for space and removed support for rents and property values. Since we cannot predict when the real estate markets will recover, the value of our properties may decline if current market conditions persist or worsen. A commercial property’s income and value may be adversely affected by national and regional economic conditions, local real estate conditions such as an oversupply of properties or a reduction in demand for properties, availability of “for sale” properties, competition from other similar properties, our ability to provide adequate maintenance, insurance and management services, increased operating costs (including real estate taxes), the attractiveness and location of the property and changes in market rental rates. The continued rise in energy costs could result in higher operating costs, which may affect our results from operations. Our income will be adversely affected if a significant number of tenants are unable to pay rent or if our properties cannot be rented on favorable terms. Additionally, if tenants of properties that we lease on a triple-net basis fail to pay required tax, utility and other impositions, we could be required to pay those costs, which would adversely affect funds available for future acquisitions or cash available for distributions. Our performance is linked to economic conditions in the regions where our properties will be located and in the market for office, retail, industrial and residential space generally. Therefore, to the extent that there are adverse economic conditions in those regions, and in these markets generally, that impact the applicable market rents, such conditions could result in a reduction of our income and cash available for distributions and thus affect the amount of distributions we can make to investors. Real estate related taxes may increase and if these increases are not passed on to tenants, our income will be reduced. Some local real property tax assessors may seek to reassess some of our properties as a result of our acquisition of the property. Generally, from time to time our property taxes increase as property values or assessment rates change or for other reasons deemed relevant by the assessors. An increase in the assessed valuation of a property for real estate tax purposes will result in an increase in the related real estate taxes on that property. In some areas where we have properties, declines in other tax revenues for the states are resulting in the states considering increases to future property and other business related tax rates. Although some tenant leases may permit us to pass through such tax increases to the tenants for payment, there is no assurance that renewal leases or future leases will be negotiated on the same basis. Increases not passed through to tenants will adversely affect our income, cash available for distributions, and the amount of distributions to investors. 29 Table of Contents If we purchase environmentally hazardous property, our operating results could be adversely affected. Under various U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. Such laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. In connection with the acquisition and ownership of our properties, we may be potentially liable for such costs. The cost of defending against claims of liability, complying with environmental regulatory requirements or remediating any contaminated property could have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to you. Any costs or expenses relating to environmental matters may not be covered by insurance. Costs associated with complying with regulations such as the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain U.S. federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties, or restrict further renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. For example, the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, or FHAA, requires apartment properties first occupied after March 13, 1990 to be accessible to the handicapped. Noncompliance with the ADA or the FHAA could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. We do not conduct audits or investigations of all of these properties to determine their compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA, the FHAA or other legislation. If one or more of our properties in which we invest is not in compliance with the ADA, the FHAA or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA and the FHAA or other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, price per share of our common shares and our ability to satisfy debt service obligations and to pay distributions could be adversely affected. If we make or invest in mortgage loans, our mortgage loans may be impacted by unfavorable real estate market conditions, which could decrease the value of our mortgage investments. If we make or invest in mortgage loans, we will be at risk of defaults by the borrowers on those mortgage loans. These defaults may be caused by many conditions beyond our control, including interest rate levels and local and other economic conditions affecting real estate values. We will not know whether the values of the properties securing the mortgage loans will remain at the levels existing on the dates of origination of the mortgage loans. If the values of the underlying properties drop, our risk will increase because of the lower value of the security associated with such loans. If we make or invest in mortgage loans, our mortgage loans will be subject to interest rate fluctuations which could reduce our returns as compared to market interest rates as well as the value of the mortgage loans in the event we sell the mortgage loans. If we invest in fixed-rate, long-term mortgage loans and interest rates rise, the mortgage loans could yield a return that is lower than then-current market rates. If interest rates decrease, we will be adversely affected to the extent that mortgage loans are prepaid, because we may not be able to make new loans at the previously higher interest rate. If we invest in variable interest rate loans, if interest rates decrease, our revenues will likewise decrease. Finally, if interest rates increase, the value of loans we own at such time would decrease which would lower the proceeds we would receive in the event we sell such loans. 30 Table of Contents Your investment may be subject to additional risks when we make international investments. We purchase properties located outside the United States. These investments may be affected by factors peculiar to the laws and business practices of the jurisdictions in which the properties are located. These laws may expose us to risks that are different from and in addition to those commonly found in the United States. Foreign investments could be subject to the following risks: • changing governmental rules and policies, including changes in land use and zoning laws; • enactment of laws relating to the foreign ownership of real property and laws restricting the ability of foreign persons or companies to remove profits earned from activities within the country to the person’s or company’s country of origin; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which may adversely impact the fair values and earnings streams of our international holdings and, therefore, the returns on our non-dollar denominated investments. Although we may hedge our foreign currency risk subject to the REIT income qualification tests, it is possible that we may not be able to do so successfully and may incur losses on these investments as a result of exchange rate fluctuations; • adverse market conditions caused by terrorism, civil unrest and changes in national or local governmental or economic conditions; • the willingness of domestic or foreign lenders to make mortgage loans in certain countries and changes in the availability, cost and terms of mortgage funds resulting from varying national economic policies; • the imposition of unique tax structures and changes in real estate and other tax rates and other operating expenses in particular countries; • our ability to qualify as a REIT may be affected; and • general political and economic instability. Retail properties depend on anchor tenants to attract shoppers and could be adversely affected by the loss of a key anchor tenant. We may acquire properties with retail components. As with all rental properties, we are subject to the risk that tenants may be unable to make their lease payments or may decline to extend a lease upon its expiration. A lease termination by a tenant that occupies a large area of a retail center (commonly referred to as an anchor tenant) could impact leases of other tenants. Other tenants may be entitled to modify the terms of their existing leases in the event of a lease termination by an anchor tenant, or the closure of the business of an anchor tenant that leaves its space vacant even if the anchor tenant continues to pay rent. Any such modifications or conditions could be unfavorable to us as the property owner and could decrease rents, expense recoveries or the market value of the property. Additionally, major tenant closures may result in decreased customer traffic, which could lead to decreased sales at other stores. In the event of a default by a tenant or anchor store, we may experience delays and costs in enforcing our rights as landlord to recover amounts due to us under the terms of our agreements with those parties. Delays in liquidating defaulted mortgage loans could reduce our investment returns. If there are defaults under our mortgage loans, we may not be able to repossess and sell the underlying properties quickly. The resulting time delay could reduce the value of our investment in the defaulted mortgage loans. An action to foreclose on a property securing a mortgage loan is regulated by state statutes and rules and is subject to many of the delays and expenses of other lawsuits if the defendant raises defenses or counterclaims. In the event of default by a mortgagor, these restrictions, among other things, may impede our ability to foreclose on or sell the mortgaged property or to obtain proceeds sufficient to repay all amounts due to us on the mortgage loan. 31 Table of Contents We may make or invest in mezzanine loans, which involve greater risks of loss than senior loans secured by real properties. We may make or invest in mezzanine loans that generally take the form of subordinated loans secured by second mortgages on the underlying real property or loans secured by a pledge of the ownership interests of an entity that directly or indirectly owns real property. These types of investments involve a higher degree of risk than long-term senior mortgage loans secured by real property because the investment may become unsecured as a result of foreclosure by the senior lender. In the event of a bankruptcy of the entity providing the pledge of its ownership interests as security, we may not have full recourse to the assets of such entity, or the assets of the entity may not be sufficient to satisfy our mezzanine loan. If a borrower defaults on our mezzanine loan or debt senior to our mezzanine loan, or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our mezzanine loan will be satisfied only after the senior debt. As a result, we may not recover some or all of our investment. In addition, mezzanine loans may have higher loan-to-value ratios than traditional mortgage loans, resulting in less equity in the real property and increasing our risk of loss of principal. We will make mortgage loans only in accordance with the investment restrictions we have adopted. We will be subject to risks that result from our passive ownership of real estate, including our investment in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia. We have invested and may make future investments in which we passively own real estate. A passive investment in real estate, such as our investment in CBRE Strategic Partners Asia, involves risks not otherwise present with other methods of owning real estate. Examples of these risks include: • we cannot take part in the operation, management, direction or control of the real estate; • the party controlling the real estate may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, including inconsistent goals relating to the sale of properties owned by such controlling party or the timing of the termination and liquidation of the controlling party; or • the possibility that we may incur liabilities as the result of actions taken by the controlling party. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may affect the market for our common shares, the industry in which we conduct our operations and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may harm our results of operations and your investment. We cannot assure you that there will not be terrorist attacks in the localities in which we conduct business. These attacks or armed conflicts may directly impact the property underlying our asset-based securities or the securities markets in general. Losses resulting from these types of events are uninsurable. More generally, any of these events could cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the worldwide financial markets and economy. Adverse economic conditions could harm the value of the property underlying our asset-backed securities or the securities markets in general which could harm our operating results and revenues. Financing Risks Recent turmoil in the credit markets could affect our ability to obtain debt financing on reasonable terms and the values of our assets. The commercial real estate debt markets have been negatively impacted by the recent credit market disruptions. Securitized commercial mortgage lenders have virtually ceased lending. Lenders who hold commercial mortgages for investment have significantly tightened underwriting standards and reduced lending amounts. The result is a significant decrease in available debt capital and a significant increase in its cost. Other 32 Table of Contents than our $45,000,000 revolving credit facility (which was fully undrawn as of December 31, 2008), none of our debt matures prior to 2011 and most of our debt is at fixed interest rates. As a result, our current portfolio should be largely insulated from direct impact of the current debt market environment. However, should the reduced availability of debt and/or the increased cost of borrowing continue, we would fund acquisitions entirely with cash, which could reduce the pace of our acquisitions. In addition, the state of the debt markets could result in near-term price or value decreases for real estate assets. Although this may benefit us for future acquisitions, it could negatively impact the current value of our existing assets. Over the past year, financial markets have exhibited increasing volatility in terms of stock prices, interest rates, credit spreads, commodity prices and foreign exchange rates. In response to current financial market conditions, legislators and financial regulators implemented a number of mechanisms designed to add stability to these markets, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers, implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets and temporary prohibitions on short sales of certain financial institution securities. It is uncertain what effects any legislation or regulatory initiatives will have on financial markets or the economy. Given this uncertainty, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, contingencies or developments associated with our tenants, the real estate capital markets or the leasing markets. Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We could become more highly leveraged and an increase in debt service could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to make distributions. We had approximately $182,713,000 of consolidated outstanding indebtedness, excluding discount and fair value adjustment, representing approximately 37% of our net assets (or approximately 31% of the approximate total acquisition cost of our consolidated properties, including intangibles) as of December 31, 2008. Although we have adopted a policy to limit our aggregate borrowing to no more than 65% of the cost of our assets before non-cash reserves and depreciation, subject to the 300% of net assets borrowing restriction described below, this policy may be altered at any time or suspended by our Board of Trustees if necessary to pursue attractive investment opportunities. Our organizational documents contain a limitation on the amount of indebtedness that we may incur, so that until our shares are listed on a national securities exchange, our aggregate borrowing may not exceed 300% of our net assets unless any excess borrowing is approved by a majority of our independent trustees and is disclosed to shareholders in our next quarterly report. If we become more highly leveraged, then the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on outstanding indebtedness and to pay our anticipated distributions and/or the distributions required to qualify as a REIT, and could harm our financial condition. If we fail to make our debt payments, we could lose our investment in a property. We intend to secure the loans we obtain to fund future property acquisitions with mortgages on some of our properties. If we are unable to make our debt payments as required, a lender could foreclose on the property or properties securing its debt. This could cause us to lose part or all of our investment which in turn could cause a reduction in the value of the shares and the dividends payable to our shareholders. Lenders may require us to enter into restrictive covenants relating to our operations. In connection with obtaining certain financing, a lender could impose restrictions on us that would affect our ability to incur additional debt and our distribution and operating policies. Loan documents we enter into may contain customary negative covenants that may limit our ability to further mortgage the property, to discontinue insurance coverage, replace the Investment Advisor as our investment advisor or impose other limitations. 33 Table of Contents Rising interest rates could increase our borrowing costs and reduce cash available for distributions and could also adversely affect the values of the properties we own. We have borrowed and in the future may borrow money to purchase assets. An increase in interest rates could increase our interest expense and adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service indebtedness and to make distributions to our shareholders. If we enter into financing arrangements involving balloon payment obligations, it may adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. Our financing arrangements may require us to make a lump-sum or “balloon” payment at maturity. Our ability to make a balloon payment at maturity is uncertain and may depend upon our ability to obtain additional financing or our ability to sell the property. At the time the balloon payment is due, we may or may not be able to refinance the balloon payment on terms as favorable as the original loan or sell the property at a price sufficient to make the balloon payment. A refinancing or sale under these circumstances could affect the rate of return to shareholders and the projected time of disposition of our assets. In addition, payments of principal and interest made to service our debts may leave us with insufficient cash to pay the distributions that we are required to pay to qualify as a REIT. In such case, we may be forced to borrow funds to make the distributions required to qualify as a REIT. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. Subject to maintaining our qualification as a REIT, we may seek to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as interest cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements. These agreements may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the amount of income that a REIT may earn from hedging transactions (other than through taxable REIT subsidiaries) to offset interest rate losses is limited by U.S. federal tax provisions governing REITs; • the credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; • the party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; and • a court could rule that such an agreement is not legally enforceable. We have adopted a policy relating to the use of derivative financial instruments to hedge interest rate risks related to our borrowings. This policy governs our use of derivative financial instruments to manage the interest rates on our variable rate borrowings. Our policy states that we will not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes and intend only to enter into contracts with major financial institutions based on their credit rating and other factors, but our Board of Trustees may choose to change these policies in the future. Hedging may reduce the overall returns on our investments, which could reduce our cash available for distribution to our shareholders. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. 34 Table of Contents If we sell properties by providing financing to purchasers, defaults by the purchasers would adversely affect our cash flows. If we decide to sell any of our properties, we intend to use our best efforts to sell them for cash. However, in some instances we may sell our properties by providing financing to purchasers. When we provide financing to purchasers, we will bear the risk that the purchaser may default, which could negatively impact our cash distributions to shareholders. Even in the absence of a purchaser default, the distribution of the proceeds of sales to our shareholders, or their reinvestment in other assets, will be delayed until the promissory notes or other property we may accept upon the sale are actually paid, sold, refinanced or otherwise disposed of. In some cases, we may receive initial down payments in cash and other property in the year of sale in an amount less than the selling price and subsequent payments will be spread over a number of years. If any purchaser defaults under a financing arrangement with us, it could negatively impact our ability to pay cash distributions to our shareholders. U.S. Federal Income Tax Risks If we fail to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, our operations and ability to make distributions will be adversely affected because we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates with no deductions for distributions made to shareholders. We believe that we are organized and operate in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, and that our method of operation enables us to continue to meet the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code. So long as we qualify as a REIT, we generally will not be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our net taxable income we distribute currently to our shareholders. In order for us to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy certain requirements established under highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code and Treasury Regulations for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations, and which involve the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. In March 2005, we mortgaged one of our real estate properties and invested the proceeds in a money market mutual fund until June 2005 when the proceeds were used to purchase another real estate property. During the time the proceeds were invested in the fund, we treated the investment as a “qualified temporary investment” for purposes of the REIT asset test requirements. If our investment in the fund was not eligible for treatment as a qualified temporary investment, we may not have satisfied the REIT 5% gross asset test for the first quarter of 2005. If our investment in the fund resulted in our noncompliance with the REIT 5% gross asset test, however, we would retain our qualification as a REIT pursuant to certain mitigation provisions of the Internal Revenue Code provided our noncompliance was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect, and certain other requirements are met including the payment of a $50,000 penalty tax. Any potential noncompliance with the 5% gross asset test would be due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect so long as we are considered to have exercised ordinary business care and prudence in attempting to satisfy such test. We believe that we have exercised ordinary business care and prudence in attempting to satisfy the REIT income and asset tests, including the 5% gross asset test, and, accordingly, we believe that any noncompliance with the REIT 5% gross asset test resulting from our investment in the fund should be due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect. We have complied with the other requirements of the mitigation provisions of the Internal Revenue Code with respect to such potential noncompliance with the 5% gross asset test, including paying the $50,000 penalty tax, and, therefore, our qualification as a REIT should not be affected. The IRS is not bound by our determination, however, and no assurance can be provided that the IRS will not assert that we failed to comply with the REIT 5% gross asset test as a result of our investment in the fund and that such failure was not due to reasonable cause. If we were to fail to qualify as a REIT for any taxable year, including if we were found to have violated the 5% gross asset test and our failure was not due to reasonable cause, we will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates with no deductions for distributions made to shareholders. Further, in such event, we would generally be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which we lose our REIT qualification. Accordingly, the loss of our REIT qualification 35 Table of Contents would reduce our net earnings available for investment or distribution to shareholders because of the substantial tax liabilities that would be imposed on us. We might also be required to borrow funds or sell investments to pay the applicable tax. We may be subject to tax on our undistributed net taxable income or be forced to borrow funds to make distributions required to qualify as a REIT. As a REIT, we must distribute 90% of our annual net taxable income (excluding net capital gains) to our shareholders and we are subject to regular corporate income tax to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our annual net taxable income. In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. In order to make distributions necessary to qualify as a REIT and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term, or possibly long-term, basis, use proceeds from our current public offering or future public offerings, or sell properties, even if the then prevailing market conditions are not favorable for borrowings or sales. In addition, we may utilize these funding sources to make distributions that exceed the amount we are required to distribute to qualify as a REIT. Our need for cash to make distributions could result from, among other things, a difference in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves and the repayment of indebtedness. Dividends payable by REITs generally do not qualify for reduced U.S. federal income tax rates. The maximum U.S. federal income tax rate for dividends payable by domestic corporations to individual U.S. shareholders is 15% (through 2010). Dividends payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our shares. We will pay some taxes. Even if we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some U.S. federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property, including a 100% penalty tax on any gain recognized on property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of a trade or business. To the extent that we are required to pay U.S. federal, state, local or foreign taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to our shareholders. The ability of our Board of Trustees to revoke our REIT election without shareholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our shareholders. Our charter provides that our Board of Trustees may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our shareholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interests to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to qualify as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income and we would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our shareholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to our shareholders and the value of our shares. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect investors. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial and administrative changes have been made to the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to investments similar to an investment in our shares. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to continue to occur in the future, and we cannot assure you that any such changes will not adversely affect the taxation of us or our shareholders. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our properties. 36 Table of Contents If our assets are deemed to be ERISA plan assets, the Investment Advisor and we may be exposed to liabilities under Title I of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. In some circumstances where an ERISA plan holds an interest in an entity, the assets of the entire entity are deemed to be ERISA plan assets unless an exception applies. This is known as the “look-through rule.” Under those circumstances, the obligations and other responsibilities of plan sponsors, plan fiduciaries and plan administrators, and of parties in interest and disqualified persons, under Title I of ERISA and Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code, may be applicable, and there may be liability under these and other provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code. If the Investment Advisor or we are exposed to liability under ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code, our performance and results of operations could be adversely affected. Prior to making an investment in us, you should consult with your legal and other advisors concerning the impact of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code on your investment and our performance. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2008, we did not have any unresolved comments with the staff of the SEC. 