Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business We are an early stage company in an emerging market with an unproven business model and a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects and may increase the risk of your investment. We have only a limited operating history, and our current business and future prospects are difficult to evaluate. We commenced operations in late 2004. We have developed a strategy for taking advantage of what we believe is a shift of local marketing budgets from traditional media formats to digital media formats, but we cannot assure you that our strategy will not fail or prove less successful than other approaches. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we encounter as an early stage company in the new and rapidly evolving online marketing industry. These risks and difficulties include: • our new and unproven business model; • maintaining the effectiveness of our RL Platform, and adapting our technology to new market opportunities and challenges; • our limited number of product offerings and risks associated with developing and selling new product offerings; • continuing to attract new SMB clients, many of whom have not previously advertised online and may not understand the value to their businesses of our products and services; and • effectively managing rapid growth in our sales force, personnel and operations. Failing to successfully address these challenges or others could significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. We have incurred significant operating losses in the past and may incur significant operating losses in the future. As of December 31, 2010 we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $16.0 million, and we expect to incur net operating losses for the foreseeable future. We expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. Our business strategy contemplates hiring significant numbers of additional IMCs, both in new and existing markets, as well as making substantial investments in new and existing products, which will require significant expenditures. In addition, as a public company, we incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. If our revenue does not grow to offset these increased expenses, we will not be profitable. We also expect that a variety of factors, including increased competition and the maturation of our business, will cause our revenue growth rate to decline in the future, and we cannot assure you that our revenue will continue to grow or will not decline. As a result, you should not consider our historical revenue growth as indicative of our future performance. Furthermore, if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance will be adversely affected. We purchase most of our media from Google, and our business could be adversely affected if Google takes actions that are adverse to our interests. Similar actions from Yahoo!, Microsoft and other media providers could adversely affect our business, though to a lesser degree. Nearly all of our cost of revenue is for the purchase of media, and a substantial majority of the media we purchase is from Google. Google accounts for a large majority of all U.S. searches, and Google’s share in foreign markets is often even greater. As a result, we expect that our business will depend upon media purchases from Google for the foreseeable future. This dependence makes us vulnerable to actions that Google may take to change the manner in which it sells AdWords, as described below, or conducts its business on a number of levels: • Google Can Choose to Change the Terms and Conditions Upon Which it Does Business with Us. Google can act unilaterally to change the terms and conditions for our purchase of media, and Google has done so in the past. In July 2010, Google announced new reporting requirements for companies such as ours, which took effect in February 2011. These new requirements require, among other things, monthly reporting to our clients of AdWords costs, clicks, and impressions. Because this policy only recently took effect, we cannot at this time fully assess the degree to which Google’s 9 Table of Contents imposition of this policy will affect our business. In addition, future changes by Google to the terms and conditions upon which we purchase media could materially and adversely affect our business. • Competitive Risk. Google offers its products directly to SMBs through an online self-service option. Google enjoys substantial competitive advantages over us, such as substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. In addition, Google continues to launch products that are targeted directly at SMBs, which Google does not always make available to third parties. While we cannot assess at this time the effect of Google’s offering such products directly to SMBs, the prices charged by Google for direct service are lower than the prices we charge for the same media. • Technology Risk. Our RL Platform interacts with Google through publicly available application programming interfaces, or APIs. If Google were to discontinue the availability of all or a portion of these APIs to us, we may have to change our technology, incur additional costs or discontinue certain products or services that we currently offer our clients. Any of these changes could adversely affect our ability to provide effective online marketing and reporting solutions to our clients. In addition, Google may decide to alter the amount it charges us for the right to use its APIs, which would decrease our gross margin absent any change in our pricing to our customers. • Editorial Control. Google closely monitors the experience of end-users, and from time-to-time its editorial personnel request that companies alter their services based on Google’s determination that aspects of such services could adversely affect the end-user experience. For example, each of our media products includes TotalTrack, a tracking service powered by our proprietary reverse proxy technology. If Google were to determine that the tracking URLs utilized by our TotalTrack service adversely affects the end-user’s experience, Google could require us to alter or suspend the way we implement our tracking solutions. Such a change would significantly decrease our ability to optimize our clients’ advertising campaigns and limit our ability to provide the level of campaign performance reporting that we currently provide to our clients. • Rebate/Incentive Risk. Google retains broad authority with respect to its rebate programs and has, from time to time, canceled rebate programs. For example, effective December 31, 2008, Google terminated a publisher rebate provided as part of its North American Authorized AdWords Reseller program, which was the primary reason that our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue increased from 52.8% in 2008 to 54.5% in 2010. Google also has, and may in the future, impose requirements to allocate a specific percentage of our search revenue to Google in order for us to qualify for preferential access, rebates or other financial incentives. In addition, any new developments or rumors of developments regarding Google’s business practices that affect the local online advertising industry may create perceptions with our customers or investors that our ability to compete has been impaired. The above risks also apply to other publishers from whom we purchase media, including Yahoo! and Microsoft. In particular, the combination of the Microsoft and Yahoo! search engine advertising platforms in the fourth quarter of 2010 in North America has resulted in a reduction in the aggregate amount of publisher rebates that we have historically received from each of those companies, and for 2011 we expect that this combination will continue to result in an overall reduction in rebates as a percentage of total spend with these publishers. We purchase a significant majority of our media from Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft in an auction marketplace. If we are unable to purchase media from any one of these companies, if prices for media significantly increase or if the manner in which the media is sold changes, our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to purchase media from Google, Yahoo!, and Microsoft at reasonable prices so that we can provide our clients with a reasonable return on the advertising expenditures they make through us. We generally purchase this media in an auction marketplace. Increased competition or other factors may cause the cost of the media that we purchase from Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft to rise. In particular, if our expectation that local SMB advertising will increasingly migrate to the Internet is correct, the marketing budget available to bid in these auctions will increase and the price of media may increase substantially. An increase in the cost of media in these marketplaces without a corresponding increase in our media buying efficiency could result in an increase in our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue even if our business expands. In addition, such an increase could result in an increase in the prices we must charge our clients or a decrease in our ability to fulfill our clients’ service expectations. Furthermore, the Internet search companies that operate these media marketplaces may change the operating rules or bidding procedures in ways that decrease the effectiveness of the technology that we use to optimize our purchases or otherwise prevent us from purchasing media at reasonable prices or at all. Any change in our ability to provide effective online marketing campaigns to our clients may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain clients. Failure to adequately recruit, train and retain our Internet Marketing Consultants would impede our growth and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain or grow revenue and achieve profitability will depend, in large part, on increasing the size of our direct sales force of IMCs. We divide our IMCs into two groups: Underclassmen, who are IMCs during their first 12 months of employment, and Upperclassmen, who are IMCs with more than 12 months of employment. Generally, Upperclassmen are more productive than Underclassmen and generate revenue in excess of direct and allocable costs, while Underclassmen do not. Accordingly, we rely on the success of our Upperclassmen to fund our investment in Underclassmen. As we attempt to achieve larger scale in our business, if our Upperclassmen are not as successful as we anticipate, or if our Underclassmen do not successfully develop into productive Upperclassmen, our ability to grow revenue will suffer, our costs may increase and we may not ever become profitable. We assume a certain level of attrition when we hire new Underclassmen. We base that assumption on our historical experience and future expectations, and our assumptions may prove wrong. If our IMC attrition is greater than anticipated, our business will be harmed. In addition, as more companies seek to capitalize on the shift to online media, competition for knowledgeable and qualified online media sales personnel will increase. Moreover, employees that we hire from our competitors have in the past and may in the future be subject to claims of breach of noncompetition and non-solicitation obligations owed to their former employers, which could impact our ability to attract and hire high-quality candidates and potentially subject us to litigation. If we are unable to effectively recruit, train and retain IMCs, we may not be able to grow our sales force, our revenue may suffer or our costs may increase. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The market for online marketing solutions is intensely competitive and rapidly changing, and with the emergence of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Our competitors include: • Internet Marketing Providers. We compete with large Internet marketing providers such as Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft. These providers typically offer their products and services through disparate, online-only, self-service platforms. • Traditional, Offline Media Companies. We compete with traditional yellow page, newspaper, television and radio companies that, in many cases, have large, direct sales forces. • Other SMB Marketing Providers. We also compete with technology companies providing online marketing platforms focused on the SMB market, as well as new market entrants, such as Groupon and LivingSocial, which are actively focused on new forms of online marketing solutions for SMBs and building significant direct sales forces. Many of our current and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, substantially greater financial, technical and other resources and, in some cases, the ability to combine their online marketing products with traditional offline media such as newspapers or yellow pages. These companies may use these advantages to offer products similar to ours at a lower price, develop different products to compete with our current solutions and respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements. In particular, if major Internet search companies such as Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft decide to devote greater resources to develop and market online advertising offerings directly to SMBs, greater numbers of our clients and potential clients may choose to purchase online advertising services directly from these competitors, particularly if and as the ease of their self-service models increases. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have established marketing relationships with and access to larger client bases and are heavily investing in recruiting sales personnel, which might affect our ability to achieve our IMC hiring targets. As the market for local online advertising increases, we expect new competitors, business models and solutions to emerge, some of which may be superior to ours. We also believe that the marketplace for online media is more transparent than other media marketplaces. Our competitors may use information available to them to price their products at a discount to the prices that we currently offer. Even if our online marketing and reporting solutions are more effective than those offered by our competitors, potential clients might adopt competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our solutions. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and potential competitors. We depend on key personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel or hire additional personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our business could be harmed. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of our executive officers, as well as our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, sales, technical and finance personnel. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract them. All of our U.S. officers and other U.S. employees are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. If we are unable to attract and retain our executive officers and key employees, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. In addition, our management team has a long history of working together, and we believe that our key executives have developed highly successful and effective working relationships. If one or more of these individuals leave, we may not be able to fully integrate new executives or replicate the current dynamic, and our operations could suffer. 11 Table of Contents Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. Our executive officers have become vested in a substantial amount of stock or stock options. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. The impact of worldwide economic conditions, including the resulting effect on advertising budgets, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of advertising. We believe that continuing economic difficulties have adversely affected our business. We responded to the recession that commenced in late 2008 by reducing the number of IMCs we hired in early 2009, which resulted in a decline in our Upperclassmen headcount in the first quarter of 2010. We also believe that the recession adversely impacted IMC productivity and contributed to a decrease in our National Brands, Agencies and Resellers revenue in 2009. We believe the economic conditions in the United States remain challenging. To the extent that economic difficulties continue, or worldwide economic conditions materially deteriorate, our existing and potential clients may no longer consider investment in our online marketing solutions a necessity, or may elect to reduce advertising budgets. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in advertising spending. In particular, online marketing advertising solutions may be viewed by some of our existing and potential clients as a lower priority and may be among the first expenditures reduced as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. These developments could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to increase the number of our clients or retain existing clients, our revenue and our business will be harmed. Our ability to grow our business depends in large part on maintaining and expanding our client base. To do so, we must convince prospective clients of the benefits of our RL Platform and existing clients of the continuing value of our products and services. The online marketing industry is new and rapidly evolving, and many prospective clients may not be familiar with the benefits of online marketing. These businesses may generally favor using more traditional methods of local advertising, such as newspapers or print yellow pages directories. In addition, as the online media options for SMBs proliferate and our clients become more familiar with such options, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining or expanding our client base. SMB marketing and advertising campaigns are often sporadic and difficult to predict, as they may be driven by seasonal promotions or business dynamics, evolving product and service offerings, available budgets and other factors. Some SMBs advertise only periodically, such as to promote sales or special offers. Because we need to address these business considerations of our clients, we do not require clients to enter into long-term obligations to purchase our products and services. Many do not renew their campaigns, and some cancel. We must continually add new clients both to replace clients who choose not to renew their advertising campaigns and to grow our business beyond our current client base. A client’s decision not to renew may be based on a number of factors, including dissatisfaction with our products and services, inability to continue operations and spending levels or because their campaigns were event-driven or otherwise intentionally limited in scope or duration. If our clients increasingly fail to fulfill their contracts or increasingly do not renew their advertising campaigns with us, or if we are unable to attract new clients in numbers greater than the number of clients that we lose, our client base will decrease and our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. A significant portion of our revenue is generated by our national brands, agencies and resellers. If we are not able to maintain relationships with one or more of them, our sales may suffer and our revenue may decline. We distribute our products and services through a separate sales force for national brands with operations in multiple local markets, as well as select third-party agencies and resellers. Because these national brands, agencies and resellers generally represent an aggregated group of SMB clients, if our relationship with one or more of these persons or companies were restricted or terminated, our sales would decrease and our revenue would be adversely affected, potentially materially. In addition, our strategy of distributing our products and services to our clients through our Direct Local channel and through our National Brands, Agencies and Resellers channel may result in distribution channel conflicts. Our direct local sales efforts may compete with our third-party agency and resellers and, to the extent different third-party agencies and resellers target the same clients, they may also come into conflict with each other. While we have certain policies in place to address these potential conflicts, there can be no assurance that these channel conflicts will not materially adversely affect our relationship with existing third-party agencies and resellers or adversely affect our ability to attract new third-party agencies and resellers. In the event that any of our relationships with existing third-party agencies and resellers are terminated or we are unable to attract new third-party agencies and resellers as a result of these distribution channel conflicts, our sales may suffer and our revenue may decline. If SMBs increasingly opt to perform advertising tasks on their own, their demand for our products and services would decrease, negatively affecting our revenue. 12 Table of Contents Large Internet marketing providers such as Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft offer online advertising products and services through self-service platforms. As SMBs become more familiar with and experienced in interacting online, they may prefer to actively manage their own Internet presence and their demand for our products and services may decrease. We cannot predict the evolving experiences and preferences of SMBs, which may become more fully integrated into digitized modes of commerce and communication, and cannot assure you that we can develop our products and services in a manner that will suit their needs and expectations faster or more effectively than our competitors, or at all. If we are not able to do so, our results of operations would suffer. Our future success depends in part on our ability to effectively develop and sell additional products, services and features. We invest in the development of new products and services with the expectation that we will be able to effectively offer them to our clients. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2010, we began the North American rollout of our ReachCast product, which is our full service digital presence platform, and we continued to beta test our Bizzy product, a personalized local recommendation engine. In addition, we plan to develop or potentially acquire other products and services that address new segments of an SMB’s marketing activities. For instance, in February 2011, we acquired DealOn to accelerate our entry into the deal commerce space. Our future revenue depends in part on our ability to stay competitive with our product and service offerings. Our ability to develop and launch new products on our expected timelines, or at all, is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, such as the difficulties of designing complex software products, achieving desired functionality and integrating the new products with our existing technology. The sale of new or additional features, products and services, the value or utility of which may be different from our current products and services or less easily understood by our clients, may require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts and increased operating expenses, as well as additional training of our IMCs and education for our SMB clients. New product launches require the investment of resources in advance of any revenue generation. If new products fail to achieve market acceptance, we may never realize a return on this investment. If these efforts are not successful, our business may suffer. Further, many SMBs have modest advertising budgets. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the successful introduction of new products or services will not adversely affect sales of our current products and services or that our SMB clients will increase their aggregate spending as a result of the introduction of new products and services. With the evolution of Bizzy in November 2010 into a consumer-facing local business recommendation engine, and the acquisition of DealOn in February 2011, we are making our first foray into the development and dissemination of consumer-facing products and consumer-facing transactions, respectively, which requires different expertise and skills than our core business, which has a predominantly business-to-business focus. Consequently, our introduction of consumer facing products may not be successful, and will expose us to consumer risks that we have not had to previously address. We expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenue and operating results could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results include: • unilateral actions taken by Google or other media providers; • seasonal variations in advertising budgets and media pricing; • seasonal variations in IMC hiring; the rate at which SMBs migrate their advertising spending online; • the timing and stage of product and technology development; • our ability to appropriately set the price of non-media products; • our ability to develop, introduce and manage consumer-facing products; • the impact of worldwide economic conditions on our revenue and expenses; • our ability to accurately forecast revenue and appropriately plan our expenses; • the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; • the effectiveness of our internal controls; • our ability to effectively manage our growth; • the timing of and our ability to enter new markets and manage expansion in new markets; • our ability to successfully manage any future acquisitions of businesses, solutions or technologies; • interruptions in service and any related impact on our reputation; 13 Table of Contents • the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative strength of the US Dollar to the currencies in the countries in which we do business and its impact on our consolidated revenues and results of operations; • the effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events; and • changes in government regulation affecting our business. As a result of these and other factors, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future operating performance. In addition, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors. We may be unsuccessful in managing or growing our international operations, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently have international sales operations in Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada and Germany, and campaign support services in India. Revenue from international operations outside North America accounted for 17.1% and 6.7% of total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and in 2009, respectively. Over the long term, we intend to expand our international operations to new markets and countries. We may incur losses or otherwise fail to enter new markets successfully. Our ability to operate internationally involves various risks, including the need to invest significant resources, the possibility that returns on such investments will not be achieved in the near future and competitive environments with which we are unfamiliar. Our international operations may not prove to be successful in certain or any markets. In addition, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses as we attempt to establish our presence in particular international markets. Our current and any future international expansion plans will require management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful. While we entered the German market in the fourth quarter of 2010, our primary focus in international operations has been in English-speaking countries. We, therefore, have limited experience in modifying our technology and selling our solutions in non-English speaking international markets. Furthermore, in many international markets, we would not be the first entrant, and there may exist greater competition with stronger brand recognition than we have faced in our current markets. Different privacy, censorship and liability standards and regulations and different intellectual property laws in foreign countries may cause our business and operating results to suffer. Our international operations may also fail to succeed due to other risks inherent in foreign operations, including: • difficulties or delays in developing a network of clients in one or more international markets; • legal, political or systemic restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to market products and services or otherwise do business in foreign countries; • international intellectual property laws that may be insufficient to protect our intellectual property or permit us to successfully defend ourselves or our intellectual property in international lawsuits; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; • currency fluctuations or a weakening U.S. dollar, which can increase costs of international expansion; • potential adverse tax consequences; • lack of infrastructure to adequately conduct electronic commerce transactions; and • price controls or other restrictions on foreign currency. As a result of these obstacles, we may find it impossible or prohibitively expensive to continue or expand our international operations, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Growth may place significant demands on our management and our infrastructure. We have experienced substantial growth in our business. This growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. As our operations grow in size, scope and complexity, we will need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer an increasing number of clients enhanced solutions, features and functionality. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources in advance of an increase in the volume of business, with no assurance that the volume of business will increase. Continued growth could also strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our clients, develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls, enhance our reporting systems and procedures and recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel. Managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to maintain the necessary level of discipline and efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Our independent registered public accounting firm reported to us that, at December 31, 2010, we had a significant deficiency in our internal controls. 14 Table of Contents Our independent registered public accounting firm reported to us that, at December 31, 2010, we had a significant deficiency in our internal controls with respect to our processes for calculating the costs to be capitalized for internally developed software. Under standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, a “significant deficiency” is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting that is important enough to merit attention by those responsible for oversight of the registrant’s financial reporting. A significant deficiency is less severe than a “material weakness,” which the PCAOB defines as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The significant deficiency with respect to the calculation of capitalized software development costs pertains to our dependence on non-financial personnel and various processes which we use to capture the contemporaneous documentation of how each project meets the criteria for capitalization and the frequency and consistency of collection of estimates used to quantify the costs to be capitalized. We are in the continuing process of remediating this significant deficiency by establishing additional control systems to assure that such contemporaneous documentation is prepared and the frequency of collecting data is increased. In connection with our 2009 financial statements, our independent registered public accounting firm reported to us that, at December 31, 2009, we also had a significant deficiency in our internal controls with respect to our method of performing the consolidation process for our financial reports. The significant deficiency relating to our consolidation process pertained to our use of multiple spreadsheets and a manual process to effect the consolidation. We have begun the process of remediating this significant deficiency by implementing additional systems to automate a significant portion of the consolidation and reporting process. We are in the process of designing and implementing an Oracle Hyperion financial reporting system that will streamline the financial reporting process and standardize our chart of accounts and financial reporting templates across all of our subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2010, the system has been implemented and continues to be developed and tested. Our remediation efforts may not, however, enable us to remedy the significant deficiencies or avoid material weaknesses or other significant deficiencies in the future. In addition, this significant deficiency, any material weaknesses and any other significant deficiencies will need to be addressed as part of the evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and may impair our ability to comply with Section 404, which will first be applicable to us with respect to our Annual Report on Form 10-K to be filed in 2012. Our ability to deliver reporting and tracking solutions to our clients depends upon the quality, availability, policies and prices of third-party call tracking providers, website hosting companies and domain registrars. We rely on third parties to provide our call tracking and recording services. In certain geographies, we rely on a single call tracking provider. In the event the provider were to terminate our relationship or stop providing these services, our ability to provide our tracking services could be impaired. We may not be able to find an alternative provider in time to avoid a disruption of our services or at all, and we cannot be certain that such provider’s services would be compatible with our products without significant modifications or cost, if at all. Our proxy servers, which underlie key elements of our tracking services, require the use of various domains and IP address blocks. If domain registrars, website hosting companies or Internet service providers determined that our use of such domains and IP blocks were in violation of their terms of service or internet policies, such companies could elect to block our traffic. For example, several website hosting companies have blocked traffic from our reverse proxy servers for a group of our SMB clients, resulting in our inability to provide our full tracking services to those clients. Our ability to address or mitigate these risks may be limited. The failure of all or part of our tracking services could result in a loss of clients and associated revenue and could harm our results of operations. We rely on bandwidth providers, data centers and other third parties for key aspects of the process of providing online marketing solutions to our clients, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties could harm our ability to operate our business and damage our reputation. We rely on third-party vendors, including data center, SaaS, cloud computing Internet infrastructure and bandwidth providers. Any disruption in the services provided by these third-party providers or any failure of these third-party providers to handle current or higher volumes of use could significantly harm our business. Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which we cannot predict. We exercise little control over these third-party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience interruptions and delays in service and availability for such elements. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services could negatively impact our relationship with our clients and adversely affect our brand and our business and could expose us to liabilities to third parties. Client complaints or negative publicity about our customer service or other business practices could adversely affect our reputation and brand. Client complaints or negative publicity about our technology, personnel or customer service could severely diminish confidence in and the use of our products and services. Effective customer service requires significant personnel expense, and this expense, if not 15 Table of Contents managed properly, could significantly impact our operating results. Moreover, failure to provide our clients with high-quality customer experiences for any reason could substantially harm our reputation and our brand and adversely affect our efforts to develop as a trusted provider of online marketing and reporting solutions for the SMB market. Rapid technological changes may render our online marketing and reporting solutions obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our solutions to our clients. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our RL Platform. The Internet, access to the Internet and the online marketing and advertising industry are rapidly changing. Our competitors are constantly developing new products and services in online marketing and advertising. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new products and services that clients can easily and effectively use. If competitors introduce new solutions embodying new technologies, or if new industry practices emerge, our existing technology may become obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to: • enhance our existing solutions; • develop new solutions and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective clients; and • respond to technological advances and emerging industry practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. Developing our online marketing and reporting solutions and the underlying technology entail significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt our RL Platform and network infrastructure to client requirements or emerging industry practices. If we face material delays in introducing new or enhanced solutions, our clients may forego the use of our solutions in favor of those of our competitors. Future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our offerings and markets and grow our business in response to changing technologies, client demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, such as our acquisitions of SMB:LIVE and DealOn, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses, solutions or technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully assimilate and integrate the business, technologies, solutions, personnel or operations of the company that we acquired, particularly if key personnel of an acquired company decide not to work for us. In addition, we may borrow to complete an acquisition, which would increase our costs, or issue equity securities, which would dilute our stockholders’ ownership and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Historically, we have primarily grown organically, rather than through acquisitions. As a result, we have limited experience in identifying and executing acquisition opportunities. Acquisitions may also involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions which could harm our operating results. We may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or unforeseen circumstances. If capital is not available to us, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. We may require additional capital to operate or expand our business. In addition, some of the product development initiatives we have in the early stages of development, such as our deal commerce platform and Bizzy , may require substantial additional capital resources before they begin to generate material revenue. Additional funds may not be available when we need them, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we do not have funds available to enhance our solutions, maintain the competitiveness of our technology or pursue business opportunities, we may not be able to service our existing clients or acquire new clients, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events. For example, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, and our insurance coverage will likely be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our servers may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential intellectual property or client data. We may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in certain circumstances, such as natural disasters affecting the Los Angeles area, and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. As we rely 16 Table of Contents heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the Internet to conduct our business and provide high quality customer service, such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to run our business, which could have an adverse affect on our operating results and financial condition. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a client’s data, our service may be perceived as not being secure and clients may curtail or stop using our service. Our service involves the storage and transmission of clients’ proprietary information, such as credit card and bank account numbers, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. Our payment services may be susceptible to credit card and other payment fraud schemes, including unauthorized use of credit cards, debit cards or bank account information, identity theft or merchant fraud. For example, in April 2010 we experienced a security breach of our Australian platform, which resulted in disruption of advertising campaigns. The breach also required bringing the Australian platform offline for approximately thirty-six hours, which resulted in limitations on customer reporting and delayed implementation of a few new campaigns. While the disruption did not result in any compromise of customer credit card or our internal human resources information, we cannot assure that future breaches will not occur nor that any such breaches will not compromise commercially sensitive data. If our security measures are breached in the future as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our clients’ data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. We are subject to a number of risks related to credit card payments we accept. If we fail to be in compliance with applicable credit card rules and regulations, we may incur additional fees, fines and ultimately the revocation of the right to use the credit card company, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A majority of our clients’ campaigns were paid for using a credit card or debit card. For credit and debit card payments, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating expenses and adversely affect our net income. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. We believe we are compliant with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which incorporates Visa’s Cardholder Information Security Program and MasterCard’s Site Data Protection standard. However, there is no guarantee that we will maintain such compliance or that compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment system. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our clients. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our revenue may be negatively affected if we are required to charge sales tax or other transaction taxes on all or a portion of our past and future sales to customers located in jurisdictions where we are currently not collecting and reporting tax. We generally do not charge, collect or have imposed upon us sales or other transaction taxes related to the products and services we sell, except for certain corporate level taxes and transaction level taxes outside of the United States. However, many states, local jurisdictions or one or more countries may seek to impose sales or other transaction tax obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by any state, local jurisdiction or country in which we do business that we should be collecting sales or other transaction taxes on the sale of our products or services could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales, create increased administrative burdens or costs, discourage clients from purchasing products or services from us, decrease our ability to compete or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. The imposition of new laws requiring the collection of sales or other transaction taxes on the sale of our products or services (or the introduction of new products or services that are subject to existing transaction taxes) could create increased administrative burdens or costs, discourage clients from purchasing products or services from us, decrease our ability to compete or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and operating results. Because our business is heavily dependent on our intellectual property, including our proprietary technology, the protection of our intellectual property rights is crucial to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, patent applications, copyrights and trademarks, as well as contractual restrictions, to safeguard our intellectual property. These afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our online marketing and reporting solutions, technology, software and functionality or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary. Moreover, policing our proprietary rights is difficult and may not always be effective. In particular, 17 Table of Contents because we sell our solutions internationally, we may need to enforce our rights under the laws of countries that do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Our proprietary technology is not currently protected by any issued patents, and policing our rights to such technology may be hindered if we are unable to obtain any patents. In addition, the type and extent of patent claims that may be issued to us in the future is uncertain, and any patents that are issued may not contain claims that permit us to stop competitors from using similar technology. In light of the costs of obtaining patent protection, at times we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later on prove to be highly important. To the extent that the various technologies underlying any patent applications are determined to be business methods, the law around these types of patents is rapidly developing, and pending changes may impact our ability to protect our technology and proprietary use thereof through patents. We have registered ReachLocal and other trademarks as trademarks in the United States and in certain other countries. Some of our trade names are not eligible to receive trademark protection. Also, trademark protection may not be available, or sought by us, in every country in which our technology and products are available online. Competitors may adopt service names similar to ours, or purchase our trademarks and confusingly similar terms as keywords in Internet search engine advertising programs, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to client confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of the term ReachLocal or our other trademarks. Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other governmental authorities and administrative bodies in the United States and abroad may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our patent rights, trade secrets and domain names and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could substantially harm our operating results. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Assertions by third parties of infringement by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results. Companies in the Internet, technology and media industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently litigate or threaten litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Other parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. For instance, after our acquisition of DealOn, a number of parties have alleged that DealOn is violating the patents of such parties and one such party has initiated litigation against DealOn. These types of litigations may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue, and therefore our own issued and pending patents, if any, may provide little or no deterrence. In addition, we have been and could in the future become involved in disputes over the use of keywords by our clients, to the extent such clients’ competitors allege the use of such keywords on our RL platform violates such competitors’ trademark rights. We cannot predict whether assertions of third-party intellectual property rights or claims arising from such assertions will substantially harm our business and operating results. If we are forced to defend against any infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we may face costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party’s patent or copyright rights; cease making, licensing or using solutions that are alleged to incorporate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to redesign our solutions; and enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Over time, we expect that we will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows or as our presence and visibility within the industry increases. We could lose clients if we or our media partners fail to detect click-through or other fraud on advertisements in a manner that is acceptable to our clients. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks or actions on our third-party publishers’ websites. We may lose clients, or in the future we may have to refund revenue that our clients have paid to us and that was later attributed to, or suspected to be caused by, 18 Table of Contents click-through fraud. Click-through fraud occurs when an individual clicks on an ad displayed on a website or an automated system is used to create such clicks with little to no intent of viewing the underlying content. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the affected clients may become dissatisfied with our campaigns, which in turn may lead to loss of clients and the related revenue. If the technology that we currently use to target the delivery of online advertisements is restricted or becomes subject to regulation, our expenses could increase and we could lose clients. Websites typically place small files of non-personalized information, commonly known as cookies, on an Internet user’s hard drive. For example, our remarketing product uses cookies for its remarketing capabilities, which involves showing a consumer an ad for the website of an advertiser that the consumer has previously visited. Most currently available Internet browsers allow Internet users to modify their browser settings to prevent cookies from being stored on their hard drive, and some users currently do so. Microsoft’s Internet Explorer was recently updated to further enable consumers to prevent any kind of online tracking. Internet users can also delete cookies from their hard drives at any time. In addition, some Internet commentators and privacy advocates have suggested limiting or eliminating the use of cookies and other tracking technologies, and legislation has been introduced in some jurisdictions to regulate the use of such technologies. In 2009, the Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, issued a report on Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising which promoted principles designed to encourage meaningful self-regulation with regard to online behavioral advertising within the industry. In 2010, the FTC issued a Privacy Report calling for broader restrictions on behavioral advertising including a “do not track” mechanism allowing computer users to “opt out” of behavioral tracking. As evidenced by such reports, the FTC supports self-regulation within the industry, and strongly encourages that industry participants come up with more meaningful and rigorous self-regulation, but does not believe the industry is moving quickly enough or broadly enough to address privacy concerns. In Europe, amendments to the European Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive (due to implemented by the end of May of this year) are likely to increase the restrictive nature of the obligations binding on us and our clients for the use of these technologies, as they introduce requirements for Internet users to provide prior consent to the use of these technologies. Discussion in Europe suggests that use of these technologies specifically for behavioral advertising purposes may require active “opt in” consent over and above any more general requirements for Internet user consent. Implementation of these amendments may therefore require us and our customers to alter the way in which we and they use cookies, from both a technical and a commercial view point, which may limit the effectiveness of our local online advertising solutions both in Europe and elsewhere. If the use or effectiveness of cookies and similar technologies were limited in Europe, we expect that we would need to switch to other technologies to gather demographic and behavioral information. While such technologies currently exist, they are substantially less effective than cookies. Replacement of cookies could require significant reengineering time and resources, might not be completed in time to avoid losing customers, and might not be commercially feasible. Although amendments to the European Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive have been implemented at a European Union level, it is for each of the European Union member states to enact legislation to incorporate these amendments into its national laws. The amended rules applicable in each member state may therefore differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and we and our clients must ensure compliance with these rules in each jurisdiction in which we or they use personal data. We cannot yet determine the full impact of all these proposed changes. However, if the gathering of profiling information on users were to be curtailed, Internet advertising would be less effective, which would reduce demand for Internet advertising and harm our business. The development and implementation of new technologies and procedures could be expensive and time consuming, and may limit or delay our ability to develop and market new products and services. Some of our services may utilize “open source” software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. Some of our services may utilize software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open source” licenses, including, but not limited to, the GNU General Public License and the GNU Lesser General Public License. Some of those licenses may require that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create using the open source software, that we provide notices with our products and that we license any modifications or derivative works under an open source license or rights of further use to third parties. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. Although we take steps to ensure that our software engineers properly isolate our proprietary software they design from open source software components, we may not control the product development efforts of our engineers and we cannot be certain that they have not inappropriately incorporated open source software into our proprietary technologies. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software were to obtain a judgment against us based on allegations that we had not complied with the terms of any applicable open source license, we could be subject to liability for copyright infringement damages and breach of contract. In addition, we could be enjoined from selling our services that contained the open source software and required to make the source code for the open source software available, to grant third parties certain rights of further use of our software or to remove the open source software from our services, which could disrupt our distribution and sale of some of our services. 19 Table of Contents We could be subject to legal claims, government enforcement actions and damage to our reputation and held liable for our or our clients’ failure to comply with federal, state and foreign laws, regulations or policies governing consumer privacy and telecommunications secrecy which could materially harm our business. Recent growing public concern regarding privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about individuals has led to increased federal, state and foreign scrutiny and legislative and regulatory activity concerning data collection and use practices. We and our clients are currently subject to various federal, state and foreign laws concerning the collection and use of information regarding individuals, and more stringent legislation regarding privacy and data security measures has been enacted or is pending in numerous states, the United States Congress, in Europe and in other countries. In addition, privacy or consumer protection related self-regulatory measures, changes in technology or pressure caused by public opinion may impact our ability to provide, market or further develop our current services. In the United States, key privacy laws relating to our business include the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, the Federal Drivers Privacy Protection Act of 1994, the privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and the Federal CAN-SPAM Act of 2003. The President of the United States has publicly supported passage of a “bill of rights” for Internet users with legally enforceable standards for the collection, use and transfer of personal data and the Federal Trade Commission has called for broader limitations on behavioral advertising to supplement or replace existing self regulation. In Europe, key privacy laws include the Data Protection Directive and the Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive in Europe. The European Union’s directives limit both the ability to use electronic communications in relation to Internet users, and the ability to collect and use information regarding Internet users. These directives are implemented differently in each European Union member state and we and our clients will therefore be subject to the local implementing laws in their relevant member state. These restrictions in relation to targeted advertising may become significantly more onerous in the future following the introduction of an amendment to the Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive, which may require a material change in our and our clients’ use of certain common technologies (including cookies) used to track and target Internet advertising. Our interception and monitoring of telephone calls in Europe is also subject to and restricted by the Telecoms Privacy Directive. Our Australia operations are subject to privacy and data security measures under the Privacy Act 1988 and other privacy laws. The Privacy Act 1988 may be amended in 2011 to provide for greater powers to the regulator and more extensive penalties for breaches. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and direct marketing industries are considering various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards. Since many of the proposed standards, guidelines, laws and regulations are new or just being developed, and a consensus on privacy and data usage has not been reached, we cannot yet determine the full impact all of these proposed laws or regulations may have on our business. We do anticipate, however, that these new measures will require us and our customers to modify our technology and privacy practices and devote additional resources to monitoring and adapting to the new requirements as they are put into effect. We cannot assure you that our clients are currently in compliance, or will remain in compliance, with these laws, standards and their own privacy policies. While we have taken steps designed to ensure compliance with the current privacy and consumer protection regime in all material respects, given their nature and our geographical diversity, and the difficulties inherent in applying the non-US laws and regulations to our current US-based business model and the various technologies we use, there could be areas where we are non-compliant. We may be held liable if our clients use our online marketing and reporting solutions in a manner that is not in compliance with applicable laws, standards or their own stated privacy policies. Our failure to comply could result in liability and sanctions (which could include giving undertakings to regulatory authorities to change our operations, adverse publicity, substantial financial penalties and/or criminal proceedings) and materially harm our business. Government regulation of the Internet is evolving, and unfavorable changes could substantially harm our business and operating results. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth in use of the Internet and online services. The application of existing laws to the Internet and online services governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy has not yet been settled. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and operating results. Other laws and regulations that have been adopted, or may be adopted in the future, that may affect our business include those covering user privacy, data protection, spyware, “do not email” lists, access to high speed and broadband service, pricing, taxation, tariffs, patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, export of encryption technology, electronic contracting, click-fraud, acceptable content, search terms, lead generation, behavioral targeting, consumer protection, and quality of products and services. Any changes in regulations or laws that hinder growth of the Internet generally or that decrease the acceptance of the Internet as a communications, commercial and advertising medium could adversely affect our business. See also Part 1, Item 1A, “Risk Factors— If the technology that we currently use to target the delivery of online advertisements is restricted or becomes subject to regulation, our expenses could increase and we could lose clients.” Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. Shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in May 19, 2010 at a price of $13.00 per share, and our common stock has subsequently traded as high as $28.02 and as low as $11.80 through March 23, 2011. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be developed or sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • our operating performance and the operating performance of similar companies; • the overall performance of the equity markets; • the number of shares of our common stock publicly owned and available for trading; • threatened or actual litigation; • changes in laws or regulations relating to our solutions; • any major change in our board of directors or management; • publication of research reports about us or our industry or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; • large volumes of sales of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders; and • general political and economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Internet-related companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the recent distress in the financial markets has also resulted in extreme volatility in security prices. Future sales of shares of our common stock by stockholders could depress the price of our common stock. Approximately 68% of our common stock is held by our directors, officers and entities affiliated with our directors. Such shares have not been subject to lock-up agreements since November 2010. A number of members of our management team have adopted 10b5-1 trading plans covering approximately 0.8 million shares of common stock. In addition, insiders may seek to sell shares without the adoption of trading plans. If there are substantial sales of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, as of December 31, 2010 approximately 6.2 million shares subject to outstanding options under our 2004 Stock Plan and our Amended and Restated 2008 Stock Incentive Plan, are eligible for sale in the public market in the future, subject to certain legal and contractual limitations. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. As a result of becoming a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting and will be subject to other requirements that will be burdensome and costly. We may not complete our analysis of our internal controls over financial reporting in a timely manner, or these internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404), to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2011. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting, as well as a statement that our auditors have issued an attestation report on our management’s assessment of our internal controls. We are engaged in the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation before we perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our auditors are unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Failure to comply with the new rules might make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we might be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage and/or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, on committees of our board of directors, or as executive officers. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. 21 Table of Contents if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Our management continues to have broad discretion over the use of the proceeds we received in our initial public offering and might not apply the proceeds in ways that increase the value of your investment. Our management generally has broad discretion to use the net proceeds to us from our initial public offering, and our stockholders will be relying on the judgment of our management regarding the application of these proceeds. Our management might not apply the net proceeds from the offering in ways that increase the value of our stockholders’ investment. To date, we have used the net proceeds of our initial public offering to fulfill a deferred payment obligation in connection with our acquisition in September 2009 of the approximately 53% of our Australian operations that we did not already own. We will also use a portion of the net proceeds for the acquisition of businesses, solutions and technologies that we believe are complementary to our own. We have not otherwise allocated the net proceeds from the offering for any specific purposes. Until we use the net proceeds to us from the offering, we plan to invest them, and these investments may not yield a favorable rate of return. If we do not invest or apply the net proceeds from the offering in ways that enhance stockholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could cause our stock price to decline. Investment funds managed by VantagePoint Venture Partners own a substantial amount of our stock and have significant influence over our business. In the aggregate, insiders own a majority of our outstanding stock. As of December 31, 2010, VantagePoint Venture Partners, one of our early venture capital investors, beneficially owned approximately 45% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, VantagePoint has significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. VantagePoint’s significant ownership also could affect the market price of our common stock by, for example, delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Alan Salzman, the Chief Executive Officer of Vantage Point, serves as Chairman of our board of directors. Our current directors and executive officers as a group beneficially own approximately 68% of our outstanding common stock. Certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors, including, among other things: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; • the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the president (in absence of a Chief Executive Officer) or our board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; • the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the voting stock, voting together as a single class, to amend the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the issuance of preferred stock and management of our business or our bylaws, which may inhibit the ability of an acquiror from amending our certificate of incorporation or bylaws to facilitate a hostile acquisition; 22 Table of Contents • the ability of our board of directors, by majority vote, to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent a hostile acquisition and inhibit the ability of an acquiror from amending the bylaws to facilitate a hostile acquisition; and • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, our board of directors has approved the transaction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 