D. Risk factors. Risks relating to our business Any prolonged or substantial slowdown in the global or Chinese economy could adversely affect Chinese investors’ interests and engagement in the securities market, which may in turn have a significantly negative impact on our business. Our business can be adversely affected by the general macroeconomic environment. Global economic, securities market and financial developments, including continued or further recessionary economic conditions as well as the current volatility and uncertainty concerning the euro, all could significantly influence the overall interests and engagement of Chinese investors in the stock market. China macro economic growth has also been slowed down due to various factors, including high inflation, a tighter monetary policy and deteriorating global economic conditions. Any prolonged or substantial slowdown in the global or Chinese economy could adversely affect Chinese investors’ interests and engagement in the securities market, which may in turn have a significant negative impact on our business. Negative changes in China’s securities markets, economic conditions, inflation, regulatory policies, interests rates, the availability of hedging instruments and other factors that could affect investors’ interests in investing in China’s securities markets could have an adverse effect on our business. We believe that the level of public interest in investing in China’s securities market could significantly influence the demand for market intelligence on China’s securities markets and our products. Such demand could be affected by the level of trading activities in China’s securities markets. During the past several years, China’s securities markets have experienced significant volatility. The benchmark Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index, or SSE Composite Index, surged 426.18% between the start of 2006 and the market peak in October 2007. The SSE Composite Index ended 2011 with a decrease of 21.68% for the year, a decrease of 63.90% from its all-time high on October 16, 2007. The benchmark Shenzhen Stock Exchange Component Index, or SZSE Component Index, ended 2011 with a decrease of 28.41% for the year, a decrease of 54.34% from its all-time high in October 2007. 6 Table of Contents In addition, irregular activities involving China’s securities markets, including, without limitation, insider trading, large-scale selling shares by executive officers of newly listed companies, over issuance of IPOs and inadequate legal protections of individual investors, have become increasingly intense in recent years and resulted in market volatility and decreased investor confidence in China’s securities markets. Any factors that lead to prolonged weakness or intensified volatility in China’s securities markets in the future may diminish investors’ interest in China’s securities markets, and our business could be adversely affected accordingly. Also, in January 2010, in an effort to reform its securities market, the State Council of China principally approved a trial launch of margin trading and short selling and launch of stock index futures in China. The China Securities Regulatory Commission, or the CSRC, then issued a series of regulations, which make margin trading, short selling and stock index futures available to investors in China, subject to certain conditions and criteria. China launched its margin trading and short selling trial program on March 31, 2010 on the Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges. Subsequently, index futures started trading on the China Financial Futures Exchange or CFFEX on April 16, 2010. On November 25, 2011, the trial margin trading and short selling rules at Shanghai and Shenzhen stock exchanges were officially approved by the CSRC, which indicates that margin trading and short selling have become the regular trading activities within China’s securities market. It is possible that these hedging instruments could cause increased volatility in China’s securities market, which, in turn, may have a negative impact on Chinese investors’ participation in the securities market, and materially and adversely affect our business. Finally, on November 30, 2011, the People’s Bank of China reduced the RMB required reserve ratio for deposit taking institutions by 0.5 percentage points, effective from December 5, 2011, after the RMB required reserve ratio was consecutively increased by the People’s Bank of China for six times in 2011. In addition, the People’s Bank of China raised the benchmark one-year deposit and lending rate for three times in 2011. There is still uncertainty with the impact caused by the monetary policy changes, which are beyond our control, on Chinese investors’ general participation in China’s stock market, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our business. Any measures adopted by the People’s Bank of China, such as an interest rate increase to reduce an inflation rate, may have an adverse effect on China’s securities markets, which could materially and adversely impact our business. Downturns, disruptions and volatility in Hong Kong securities markets and negative developments in the business, economic and market conditions that could affect investors’ investing in Hong Kong securities markets could have a material and adverse impact on our business in the future. Following the acquisition in 2007 of Daily Growth Securities Limited, or Daily Growth Securities, a licensed securities brokerage firm incorporated in Hong Kong, we provide a diversified portfolio of brokerage and information service to our clients in connection with their investment in Hong Kong securities market. Lower trading volumes and price levels of securities transactions in Hong Kong securities market may affect investors’ participation in Hong Kong’s securities markets and have a material and adverse impact on our business in the future. Historically, securities trading volume and price level in Hong Kong have fluctuated considerably. After reaching its all-time high on October 30, 2007, the Hang Seng Index lost approximately 65.18% of its value from October 30, 2007 through October 27, 2008. The Hang Seng Index then rebounded to 24,964.37 points on November 8, 2010. However, in 2011, the Hang Seng Index had a decrease of 19.97% for the year, falling from 23,035.45 points on December 31, 2010 to 18,434.39 points on December 30, 2011. Continued significant fluctuations in the Hong Kong securities markets may materially and adversely impact our business. 7 Table of Contents Our securities brokerage, futures trading and securities advising business in Hong Kong operate in a highly regulated industry and compliance failures could materially and adversely affect our business. Daily Growth Securities holds a Type 1 license and provides a diversified portfolio brokerage and other related services to our customers who invest in stocks listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchanges and Clearing Limited, or HKEx. Daily Growth Futures Limited, or Daily Growth Futures, holds a Type 2 license and commences futures contract trading business in Hong Kong. Daily Growth Wealth Management Limited, or Daily Growth Wealth Management, holds a Type 4 license and engages in securities advising activities in Hong Kong. The securities brokerage, securities advising and futures trading business and operations in Hong Kong are subject to extensive regulations by HKEx, and Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission, or SFC, which may increase our cost of doing business and may be a limiting factor on the operations and development of our securities brokerage, securities advising and futures trading business. The regulation on securities broker-dealer, securities advising and futures trading business is also an ever-changing area of law and is subject to modification by government, regulatory and judicial actions. As our business has expanded into the securities brokerage, futures trading and securities advising areas in Hong Kong, we devote more time to regulatory matters. Failure to comply with any of the laws, rules or regulations applicable to our securities brokerage, securities advising and futures trading business could lead to adverse consequences including, without limitation, investigations, fines, law suits and other penalties from regulatory agencies. Any of these consequences could materially and adversely affect our securities broker-dealer, futures trading and securities advising business. We may not be able to successfully continue to innovate, improve and provide products and services to attract and retain paying subscribers and registered users, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business in the future. In order to attract and retain users and compete against our competitors, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development to enhance our Internet technology, improve our existing products and services and introduce additional high-quality products and services. We currently offer to our subscribers a limited number of services packages with different features and functionalities. If we are unable to anticipate user preferences or industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products and services on a timely basis, or if we introduce a new feature or a new research tool that is not favorably received, we may lose users. Our operating results may also suffer if our innovations do not respond to the needs of our users, are not appropriately timed with market opportunities or are not effectively brought to market. Furthermore, our research tools or features may contain errors, including without limitation, programming errors, which are not discovered by our internal testing or are discovered after the services are introduced. Our business operation and our reputation shall be damaged by those errors, and we may need to significantly modify the design of these research tools or features to correct these errors, which could result in significant cost and expense. As Internet technology and products continues to develop, our competitors may be able to offer services and products including news, data, analytics and brokerage-related services through web portals, desktop solutions and mobile handsets that are, or that are perceived to be, substantially similar to or better than those generated by our services. This may force us to expend significant resources in order to remain competitive. 8 Table of Contents Our transition to a new business model may not be successful, which may materially and adversely affect our performance. Beginning in April 2012, while we continue to offer basic versions of paid individual subscription services to individual investors through our flagship portal sites and accumulate paid subscribers with basic software and information services, we will no longer accept new paid subscribers or renewals for its premium individual subscription service. We are implementing a strategic transition of our core business from providing premium subscription services to individual investors to developing fee-based securities investment advisory services with wealth management services to be added over time. While securities investment advisory and wealth management have attractive market potential in China, such businesses are relatively new and the related business models are unproven. We will be facing a variety of risks and uncertainties during the transition, many of which will be new and unexpected. As we make this transition, our subscription revenue will drop immediately, but we are uncertain when, if ever, revenue from our new areas of business will compensate for this lost revenue. If we are unable to successfully and smoothly transition into the new principal business and implement our growth strategies in a timely and cost-effective manner, our business and financial results will suffer, and loss of profit may occur during the transition period, Uncertain legal regulation in our new areas of business may adversely impact our business. Laws and regulations governing the securities investment advisory and wealth management services industry in China are developing and subject to further changes, as a result, substantial uncertainties exist regarding the evolution of the regulatory system and the interpretation and implementation of current and any future Chinese laws and regulations applicable to the securities investment advisory and wealth management services industry. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or maintain our existing licenses and permits, renew any of them when their current term expires or obtain additional licenses requisite for our strategic transition. Any changes in the regulatory landscape may materially and adversely affect our business. We will face significant competition in the securities investment advisory and wealth management services industry as we transition into the new principal business, and our operations and financial condition may suffer if we fail to compete effectively. As a new market entrant competing in the highly competitive and fragmented securities investment advisory and wealth management services industry in China, we may not be able to compete effectively or provide a compelling service alternative for potential customers. The securities investment advisory and wealth management services industry in China is at an early stage in development and is highly fragmented and competitive, but provides a vast opportunity, and thus we expect competition to persist and intensify. In providing securities investment advisory and over time wealth management services, we face competition from independent firms providing wealth management services, securities advisory and investment corporations providing securities investment advisory services, brokerage firms providing securities investment advisory services and domestic commercial banks with an in-house sales force and private banking functions, such as China Merchants Bank, China Minsheng Bank and China Everbright Bank. Many of our competitors, especially the brokerage firms and commercial banks, have greater financial and marketing resources than we do. Many brokerage firms, trust companies and commercial banks we will be competing with enjoy significant competitive advantages due to their nationwide distribution network, longer operational history, broader client base, and settlement capabilities. Moreover, many of the securities investment advisory and wealth management services and product providers, such as brokerage firms, commercial banks and trust companies, are also engaged in, or may in the future engage in the distribution of wealth management products and they may benefit from the integration of wealth management products with their other services and product offerings. If we are unable to compete effectively against the existing and future competitors, our financial results will suffer. 9 Table of Contents If we are unable to hire high quality personnel for the investment advisory and over time wealth management businesses, our new business model will suffer. We will also be facing fierce competition hiring competent licensed securities investment advisors. Also, highly skilled and qualified financial advisors are in high demand throughout wealth management industry in China. The total number of individuals qualified to provide investment advisory and wealth management services in China is limited due to the early development stage of the industry. In addition, the rate of wage inflation in most areas of the economy remains persistently high in recent years. There is no assurance that we can recruit and retain sufficient licensed securities investment advisors and qualified wealth management financial advisors who meet our high quality requirements to support our further growth into the new principal business or if we do, whether the cost of doing so will permit us to realize reasonable margins. Even if we recruit sufficient licensed securities investment advisors and qualified wealth management financial advisors, we may have to incur disproportional compensation, training and other administrative expenses in order to retain such recruits in light of the aggressive hiring competition from other securities investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, commercial banks and trust companies that are better financially situated for recruitment of this kind. These factors may materially and adversely affect our business and our strategy. We may not be able to realize cost reductions in connection with the business transition as planned. While we expect the overall administrative expenses in connection with employees’ compensation to decrease as part of our transition to our new principal business, we may incur higher expenses in payments to be made to outgoing employees, which will include without limitation, certain severance payment and non-compete payment obligations. As a part of our business transition and upgrade plan, we will reorganize certain departments and staff. The new principal business we are entering into will have lower personnel demands, reflecting in fewer telephone service personnel, product and technical support staff, which will foreseeably result in lower administrative costs. However, in addition to the aforementioned immediate term obligations, in transitioning into securities investment advisory and over time wealth management business, we may be required to incur development, operation and potential acquisition costs in order to keep pace with the new market and technology needs for the industry. As a result, our cost-cutting initiatives to increase efficiency and improve our operational performance may not prove to be effective in the short-term and we may experience losses in connection with the staffing changes and other adjustment measures we undertake during the transition period. Ceasing providing new subscriptions of premium individual subscription service may have a chilling effect on our existing subscribers and result in lower than expected revenues, immediate-term cash refunds and possible losses. Based on our strategic transition plan, we ceased providing new subscriptions of premium individual subscription service in April 2012 though we will continue to provide on-going services to our existing subscribers until the applicable subscription terms expire. In light of the new direction we are taking our business, our existing subscribers of premium individual subscription service may start to lose confidence in the resources, the quality and the expertise we devote into these existing subscription services during the time in which we are developing our capacity in the securities investment advisory and over time wealth management services. Such existing subscribers may terminate their existing subscription with us. As a result, revenue and deferred revenue would be reduced if we may be required to pay refunds, which will negatively impact on our financial results. Our business could be materially and adversely affected if the stock exchanges from which we receive data and information fail to deliver us reliable data and price quotes or other trading related information, or if we cannot maintain our current business relationships with our historical data providers on commercially reasonable terms. We depend on four securities data providers associated with SSE, SZSE, HKEx, and CFFEX to provide us with real-time stock, bond, mutual fund and financial futures quotes and other trading related information. We primarily rely on contractual arrangements with SSE Infonet Ltd. which is associated with SSE, with Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd., which is associated with the SZSE, with HKEx Information Services Limited (“HKEx-IS”), which is a business subsidiary of HKEx, and with CFFEX, pursuant to which we pay fixed service fees in exchange for receiving real-time price quotes and other trading related information through satellite communication. 10 Table of Contents We renew our agreement with SSE Infonet Ltd. on an annual basis to provide our subscribers SSE Level-I quotes. The renewed agreement will continue through December 31, 2012. In June 2006, we were certified by SSE Infonet Ltd. to develop service packages based on Level II quotes (which provide insight into stock price movements and provide faster and more comprehensive trading data), and upgrade the features and functions of our current products. The definitive agreement will continue through July 31, 2012 and we intend to renew this agreement at that time. We renew, on an annual basis, our agreement with Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd to provide our subscribers with SZSE Level-I quotes. The agreement was renewed to continue through March 31, 2013. In April 2010, we were certified by Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd. to develop service packages based on Level II quotes, and upgrade the features and functions of our current products through an annually-renewed agreement. Shenzhen Securities Information Co., Ltd and we both agree that the company will be authorized to provide Level II quotes through March 31, 2013. In October 2009, we entered into a definitive agreement with HKEx-IS whereby www.jrj.com became the first HKEx-IS designated finance portal in mainland China to provide free real-time basic market quotes to mainland China investors. www.jrj.com is authorized to provide free real-time quotes of securities traded on the HKEx. The definitive agreement with HKEx-IS was renewed in March 2011 and shall not be terminated until either party wants to terminate this agreement. In April 2010, we entered into a definitive agreement with CFFEX to provide real-time coverage on China’s newly introduced stock index futures, which is renewed on an annual basis. CFFEX authorizes us to provide all the data including market information, trading data and other information or data related to stock index futures products to end users in mainland China. The definitive agreement was renewed to continue through April 16, 2013. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to timely renew business arrangements with each of the four securities data providers associated with the SSE, SZSE, HKEx, and CFFEX on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, after our current contracts expire. In addition, we cannot assure investors that the four securities data providers will not change their current mode of providing stock information to us, change the packages of stock information authorized to us, change their current qualification requirements on the authorized information service provider, or charge us service fees substantially higher than the service fees we are currently paying. If they did so, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Even if we are able to maintain our current business arrangements for data on commercially reasonable terms, any of the four securities data providers may fail to deliver us reliable price quotes or other trading related information. In either case, it would be difficult for us to receive reliable real-time price quotes and other trading related information from a different source, which could materially and adversely affect our business. Under the agreements, each of these four data providers can terminate its respective agreement with us if we breach the terms of the relevant agreement, such as our untimely payment of, or failure to pay, fees to these providers. In addition, we have transitioned the primary source of historical data and information on listed companies, bonds and mutual funds to CFO Genius, which we acquired in September 2006. CFO Genius has become our primary provider of historical data and information, thereby mitigating our reliance on third-party backup providers of such historical data and information. Any problems arising in or any disruption to CFO Genius as the primary provider of historical data and information may have a material adverse effect on our business. 11 Table of Contents Our business would be adversely affected if we do not continue to maintain an effective telemarketing and customer support force or if our customer support staff fails to comply with the laws and regulations in business. We market our service offerings through our websites, as well as through our telemarketing and customer service centers in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen. In addition to sales and marketing functions, we depend on our customer support force to market our service offerings to our existing and potential subscribers and to resolve our subscribers’ technical problems. Many of our telemarketing and customer support personnel have only worked for us for a short period of time and some of them may not have received sufficient training or gained sufficient experience to effectively serve our customers. We may not be able to hire, retain, integrate or motivate additional customer support personnel without any short-term disruptions of our operations. As a result, our business could be adversely affected if we do not continue to maintain an effective customer support force. The CSRC’s Provisional Regulations effective from January 1, 2011 (“Provisional Regulations”) has considerably increased requirements on pre-sales disclosure, standardized contract signing and service provisions, and after-sales product return policies in the course of providing securities investment advisory services to customers. We required our customer support staff to study and comply with these new requirements imposed by the Provisional Regulations in their work. However, we cannot assure investors that our customer support staff shall fully comply with the Provisional Regulations. Our business could be subject to severe penalties if the failure of our customer support staff to comply with those requirements was detected by or complained to regulatory authorities. Our acquisitions and investments could not recognize our strategic goals, and on the contrary, result in operating difficulties, and other harmful consequences that may adversely impact our business and results of operations. Acquisitions and investments are important elements of our overall corporate strategy and we expect to continue to acquire and invest in companies, products, services and technologies in the future. For example, we acquired CFO Genius, a financial information database provider mainly serving Chinese domestic institutional customers, in September 2006. In October 2006, we acquired Stockstar Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or CFO Stockstar, a leading finance and securities website in China. In November 2007, we acquired Daily Growth Securities, a licensed securities brokerage firm incorporated in Hong Kong. In October 2008, Fortune Software (Beijing) Co., Ltd., or CFO Software, one of our subsidiaries, entered into a series of contractual arrangements with Shenzhen Newrand Securities Advisory and Investment Co., Ltd., or CFO Newrand. CFO Newrand is a CSRC licensed securities investment advisory firm, which also wholly owns Shenzhen Newrand Securities Training Center, or CFO Newrand Training, a Shengzhen Bureau of Education licensed securities investment training center. We invested in Moloon International, Inc., or Moloon, a Chinese wireless technology and service provider, in December 2005, and transferred Moloon to Ocean Butterflies Holdings Inc., a private and independent music and entertainment production company incorporated in the Cayman Islands (referred to as Ocean Butterflies Holdings) in the form of share exchange between Moloon and Ocean Butterflies Holdings in August 2010. After this transaction, we held 16.82% of the outstanding shares in Ocean Butterflies Holdings. During the second quarter of 2011, we recorded a non-cash impairment of $1.48 million on our investment in Ocean Butterflies Holdings as a result of its unprofitable operations. This impairment has no adverse impact on our core business and the carrying balance of the investment has been reduced to zero. 12 Table of Contents The acquisition and investment transactions may create risks that may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation, including but not limited to: • we may not identify suitable candidates and successfully complete acquisition and investment transactions, and may not be able to manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products or employees; • we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any acquisition and investment transaction; • the pricing and other terms of contracts for acquisition and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, so that we may pay more than it is worth; • we may not identify all of the problems during the course of our due diligence, such as factors necessary to estimate our costs accurately, and issues with unlicensed use of intellectual property; • any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations, and failure of investments to perform as expected, could make these transactions less profitable or unprofitable; • if we fail to successfully complete acquisitions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products and technology internally, and we may be at a competitive disadvantage or we may be adversely affected by negative market perceptions; • our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management’s attention may be diverted by transition or integration issues; • we may have legal and tax exposures or lose anticipated tax benefits as a result of unforeseen difficulties in our legal entity integration activities; • we may face contingencies related to intellectual property, financial disclosures and accounting practices or internal controls; • when goodwill, intangible assets and investments, in connection with potential acquisition and investment transactions become impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets; • we may incur additional amortization expense over the useful lives of certain intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions; • any acquisition and investment transactions may require a significant amount of capital investment, which would decrease the amount of cash available for working capital or capital expenditures; • we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for existing stockholders to complete acquisition and investment transactions; • we may borrow to finance these transactions, the amount and terms of which as well as other factors could affect our liquidity and financial condition, and debt instruments may contain restrictive covenants that could, among other things, restrict us from distributing dividends; 13 Table of Contents • we may experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing acquisition and investment transactions and the risk that an announced acquisition and investment transaction may not close. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if we are required to reassess our goodwill or other intangible assets arising from further potential acquisitions. In the course of our operating history, we have acquired assets and businesses, which have resulted in the recording of goodwill and/or intangible assets on our financial statements. We are required under U.S. GAAP to test goodwill for impairment at least annually or sooner if we determine there are indicators of impairment and to review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include, but not limited to, significant adverse changes in the business climate (affecting our company as a whole or affecting any particular segment), unfavorable changes in our stock price and market capitalization, and declines in the financial condition of our business. In 2011, we have recorded a goodwill impairment loss of $13.5 million and an intangible assets impairment loss of $4.1 million associated with our subscription and brokerage business. The carrying balance of the goodwill and acquired intangible assets has been reduced to zero. If we acquire new assets and businesses in the future, we may record additional goodwill and/or intangible assets. The possible write-off of the goodwill and/or intangible assets could negatively impact our future earnings and, as a result, the market price of our common stock could decline. We face certain risks associated with our financial investment activities, including but not limited to our held to maturity bank financial products and trust products. We explore selected investment opportunities that have financial value to us, including bank financial products and trust products that provide us with a more favorable rate of return than ordinary bank deposits. As of December 31, 2011, we classify our purchased bank financial product and trust products as “short-term investments” held to maturity on our balance sheet, amounting to $9.7 million. Although the bank financial product and trust products are administered by a reputable financial institution, any deterioration in the financial condition of the investment project funded by our bank financial product and trust products or any deterioration in the financial condition of the trustee of our trust product could cause significant loss to us and have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In China, China Banking Regulatory Commission (the “CBRC”) prohibits the trust companies to promise the trust plans are risk-free or promise any sort of minimal return on a trust plan. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to achieve an adequate rate of return and to fully collect our investment principals. In addition, our future financial investment activities will be exposed to various risks, including but not limited to credit risks, market risks, interest risks, liquidity risks, etc. If we experience significant losses in connection with our investment activities, our financial condition and results of operation may be materially and adversely affected. Stricter securities investment advisory regulations may materially weaken the investors’ desire to subscribe or renew subscription for our securities investment advisory services. The Provisional Regulations effective from January 1, 2011 expressively states that the business of providing securities advisory or other similar service through software tools or any other terminal equipment (“securities advisory software business”) should be subject to regulation by the CSRC. According to the Provisional Regulations, a securities advisory software business should be regarded as a securities investment advisory business, subject to laws and regulations with respect to securities investment advisory services. Therefore, providers of such services should obtain a securities investment advisory license. 14 Table of Contents While we have already acquired such license, and will continue to devote resources to regulatory compliance, the failure to comply with such regulations could lead to adverse consequences which could materially affect our securities advisory software business. In order to comply with the Provisional Regulations, we have considerably increased pre-sales disclosure requirements, standardized contract signing and service provisions among others. Through fully disclosing the limitation of making investment decisions based on software tool and other terminals devices, we emphasize to clients that they must be liable to bear the risks of their own investments. However, rolling out the above procedures amidst a continuously sluggish stock market in 2011 during which vast majority of investors are losing money nevertheless has weakened customers’ desire in purchasing new or renewing existing subscriptions. Although the Provisional Regulations benefits the healthy development of securities investment advisory business in China in the long run, such negative impact on our business is anticipated to remain in the foreseeable future. Interruption or failure of our own systems or those of third-party service providers we rely upon could impair our ability to provide our products and services, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. We have limited backup systems and have previously experienced system failures, which have disrupted our operations. Any damage to or failure of our systems could interrupt our service. Service interruptions could reduce our revenues and profits and damage our brand and reduce competitiveness if our system is perceived to be unreliable. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of terrorist attacks, wars, earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, undetected errors or “bugs” in our software, computer viruses, interruptions in access to our websites through the use of “denial of service” or similar attacks, hacking or other attempts to harm our systems, and similar events. Any security breach caused by hackings, which involve efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could cause our users to question the safety or reliability of our website and our services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, unauthorized access by third parties to our network could result in theft of personal user information, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures on our websites and products due to interruptions and failures of third-party service providers we rely upon, our reputation and brand could be severely harmed. We depend on other Internet content providers, such as other financial information websites, to provide data and information to our website on a timely basis. Our websites could experience disruptions or interruptions in service due to the failure or delay in the transmission or receipt of this information. We also depend on securities data providers to provide us with real-time price quotes and trading related information. If interruptions of real-time transmissions occur due to failure of data providers or transmission network breakdown, we will not be able to provide our users with trading data accurately and on-time. In addition, our users depend on Internet service providers, online service providers and other website operators for access to our website. Each of them has experienced significant outages in the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems. These types of occurrences could cause users to perceive our website as not functioning properly and therefore cause them to use other methods to obtain the financial data and information services they need. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to adapt or expand our existing technology infrastructure to accommodate greater traffic or additional customer requirements, our business may be harmed. In the past, our websites regularly serve a large number of users and receive a large number of daily unique visitors when there are significant business developments, financial news and activities, or stock market trading activities. In addition, the number of our users has continued to increase over time and we are seeking to further increase our user base. Therefore, our website must accommodate a high volume of traffic to meet peak user demand and deliver frequently updated information. Our websites have in the past experienced and may in the future experience slower response time or login delays for a variety of reasons. It is essential to our success that our websites are able to accommodate our users in an efficient manner so that our users’ experience with us is viewed favorably and without frequent delays. Therefore we may be required to upgrade our technology infrastructure to keep up with the increasing traffic on our websites, such as increasing the capacity of our hardware servers and the sophistication of our software. If we fail to adapt our technology infrastructure to accommodate greater traffic or customer requirements, our users and customers may become dissatisfied with our services and switch to our competitors’ websites, which could harm our business. We depend largely on the infrastructure of the telecommunications operators in China, and any interruption of their network infrastructure may result in severe disruptions to our business. Although private Internet service providers exist in China, substantially all access to the Internet in China is maintained through the telecommunications operators, under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, or MIIT. In addition, local networks connect to the Internet through a government-owned international gateway. We rely on this infrastructure and to a lesser extent, certain other Internet data centers in China to provide data communications capacity primarily through local telecommunications lines. In the event of a large-scale infrastructure disruption or failure, we may not have access to alternative networks and services, on a timely basis or at all. We may not be able to lease additional bandwidth from the telecommunications operators in China on acceptable terms, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, we may not have means of getting access to alternative networks and services on a timely basis or at all in the event of any disruption or failure of the network. We may be subject to, and may expend significant resources in defending against claims based on the content and services that we provide through our website and research tools. Due to the manner in which we obtain, collect, categorize and integrate content for our website, and because our services, including our online bulletin boards and discussion forums, may be used for the distribution of information and expression of opinions, claims may be filed against us for defamation, subversion, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other violations due to the nature and content of such information. For example, our bulletin boards and online forums reflect the statements and views of persons we do not control and we cannot be assured that such information is true and correct and is not misleading. These persons may also have conflicts of interest in relation to their statements or views regarding securities or other financial matters. Liability insurance for these types of claims is not currently available in the PRC. While we do not take responsibility for statements or views presented on our website, we may incur significant costs investigating and defending these types of claims even if they do not result in liability. Any such claim may also damage our reputation if our users and subscribers do not view this content as reliable or accurate, which could materially and adversely affect our business. 16 Table of Contents We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may materially disrupt our business. We cannot be certain that our website content, online services and our research tools do not or will not infringe upon patents, valid copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses in defending against these third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us may result in substantial monetary liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may materially and adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secret and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of the intellectual property used in our business may materially and adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures in the PRC do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel and our business and growth prospects may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success is dependent upon the continued service of our key executives and employees. We rely on their expertise in our business operations. If one or more of our key executives are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, or if they join a competitor or form a competing company in violation of their employment agreements, we may not be able to easily replace them. As a result, our business may be significantly disrupted and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. In July 2011, Dr. Caogang Li, our then-Chief Operating Officer, resigned for personal reasons. There is no disagreement between us and Dr. Li in connection with his resignation. We do not believe that Dr. Li’s resignation will have a material and adverse impact on our business and financial conditions. However, competition for qualified talent in China is intense, and the pool of qualified candidates is limited. Therefore, we cannot assure investors that we will be able to attract and retain a qualified candidate to fill in the vacancy created by Dr. Li in the near future. If we are unable to do so, our business shall be adversely affected. Furthermore, since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may need to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain key personnel in the future. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to retain the services of our executives or key personnel, or attract and retain experienced executives or key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives in the future. We do not maintain key-man life insurance for any of our key personnel. 17 Table of Contents The Internet infrastructure in China, which is not as well developed as in the United States or other more developed countries, may limit our growth. The Internet infrastructure in China is not as well developed as in the United States or other more developed countries. In particular, we depend significantly on the PRC government and fixed line telecommunications operators in China to establish and maintain a reliable Internet infrastructure to reach a growing base of Internet users in China. We cannot assure investors that the Internet infrastructure in China will support the demands associated with the continued growth of the Internet industry in China. If the necessary infrastructure standards or protocols, or complementary products, services or facilities are not developed in China on a timely basis or at all by these enterprises, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Concerns about the security and confidentiality of information on the Internet may reduce use of our network and impede our growth. A significant barrier to confidential communications over the Internet in general has been a public concern over security and privacy, including the transmission of confidential information. If these concerns are not adequately addressed, they may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally. If a well-publicized Internet breach of security were to occur, general Internet usage could decline, which could reduce traffic to our websites and impede our growth. We may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. If unauthorized persons are able to penetrate our network security, they could misappropriate proprietary information, including personal information regarding our subscribers, or cause interruptions in our services. As a result, we may be required to incur substantial costs and divert our other resources to protect against or to alleviate these problems. Security breaches could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access with respect to per capita gross domestic product may limit the development of the Internet in China and impede our growth. Although the use of personal computers in China has increased in recent years, the penetration rate for personal computers in China is relatively low as compared to that in most developed countries. In addition, despite a decrease in the cost of personal computers and the expansion of broadband access, the cost of Internet access remains relatively high given the average per capita income in China. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access may limit the growth of our business. Furthermore, any Internet access or telecommunications fee increase could reduce the number of users that use our online services. Any fee or tariff increase could further decrease our user traffic and our ability to derive revenues from transactions over the Internet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The low percentages of consumers who wish to pay for information and services on Internet in China could impede our growth Chinese consumers are traditionally customed to obtaining information and services free on the Internet, and therefore they may be reluctant to pay for such information and services as compared to counterparts in the U.S. and other developed countries. This may limit the scale of paying subscribers of financial information and services on Internet in China. Our business growth shall be negatively affected if the widespread recognition of Chinese consumers in paying for subscription of information and services on Internet is not established. 18 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may lose investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We have been subject to these requirements since the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2011. See “Item 15. Control and Procedures.” Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an attestation report, which has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in all material aspects. However, if we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, our management and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and negatively impact the trading price of our ADSs. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipated that we will continue to incur considerable costs, management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Because there is limited business insurance coverage in China, any business disruption or litigation we experience might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of resources. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. While business disruption insurance is available to a limited extent in China, we have determined that the risks of disruption, cost of such insurance and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance make having such insurance impractical for us. You should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on our quarterly operating results as an indication of our future performance, because our results of operations are subject to significant fluctuations. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results including but not limited to net revenues and non-GAAP net income guidance for the year, strategic transformation initiative, cost-cutting initiative and its effect on efficiency and operational performance, potential business consolidation amidst the new regulatory environment, the market prospect of the business of securities investment advisory and wealth management, and the transition period to adapt to the new compliance requirements, due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Significant fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could be caused by any of the factors identified in this section, including but not limited to, our ability to retain existing users, attract new users at a steady rate and maintain user satisfaction; the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced services, content and products by us or our competitors; significant news events that increase traffic to our websites; technical difficulties, system downtime or Internet failures; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; operators’ policies; changing customer needs, regulatory environment and market condition; seasonal trends in Internet use; a shortfall in our revenues relative to our forecasts and a decline in our operating results due to our inability to adjust our spending quickly; wavering investor confidence that could impact our business; possible non-cash goodwill, intangible assets and investment impairment that may adversely affect our net income; the unpredictability of our strategic transformation and upgrade; general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the Internet and wireless, financial information and services, securities investment advisory and wealth management, and the China and Hong Kong securities markets. As a result of these and other factors, you should not place undue reliance on our financial guidance, nor should you rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results as indicators of likely future performance. Our quarterly revenue and earnings per share guidance is our best estimate at the time we provide guidance. Our operating results may be below our expectations or the expectations of public market analysts and investors in one or more future quarters. If that occurs, the price of our underlying ordinary shares could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. 19 Table of Contents The effects of war, acts of terrorism, natural disasters or other unforeseen wide-scale events could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and associated heightened security measures and military actions in response to acts of terrorism has disrupted commerce and has intensified uncertainties in the U.S. and international economies. Any further acts of terrorism, a future war or a widespread natural disaster, such as the earthquake and resulting tsunami in Japan, may disrupt commerce, undermine consumer confidence and lead to a further downturn in the U.S. or international economies, which could negatively impact our revenues. Furthermore, an act of terrorism or war, or the threat thereof, or any natural disaster that results in unforeseen interruptions of commerce, could negatively impact our business by interfering with our ability to obtain products from our manufacturers. Risks relating to our corporate structure We primarily rely on contractual arrangements with Beijing Fuhua Innovation Technology Development Co., Ltd., or CFO Fuhua, CFO Newrand, Shanghai Chongzhi Co., Ltd., or CFO Chongzhi, CFO Chuangying, Shenzhen Shangtong Software Co., Ltd., or CFO Shenzhen Shangtong, CFO Securities Consulting and Fortune (Beijing) Qicheng Technology Co., Ltd., or CFO Qicheng, our significant PRC-incorporated affiliates, and their shareholders for our China operations, which may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership. If the affiliates fail to perform their obligations under these contractual arrangements or PRC laws impair the enforceability of these contracts, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Because PRC regulations restrict our ability to provide Internet content directly in China, we rely on contractual arrangements with CFO Fuhua, our significant PRC-incorporated affiliate over which we have no direct ownership, and its shareholders for operating our website and conducting our advertising business. We also entered into contractual arrangements with CFO Newrand, CFO Chongzhi, CFO Chuangying, CFO Shenzhen Shangtong, CFO Qicheng and CFO Securities Consulting, our significant PRC-incorporated affiliates over which we have no direct ownership. Under the contractual arrangements, these significant PRC-incorporated affiliates will pay us service fees in return for our strategic consulting and technology support services. We have no equity ownership interest in these entities and must rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate such businesses. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. For example, these entities could fail to take actions required for our business or fail to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements. 20 Table of Contents These contractual arrangements are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through either arbitration or litigation in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. If any of CFO Fuhua, CFO Chongzhi, CFO Newrand, CFO Shenzhen Shangtong, CFO Chuangying, CFO Securities Consulting and CFO Qicheng fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot be sure would be effective. In addition, the legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in other jurisdictions, such as the United States. As a result, uncertainties in the PRC legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event that we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Entering into a share pledge agreement is a necessary agreement in our contractual arrangements with our PRC-incorporated affiliates. Under the share pledge agreements described under “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions”, each of Zhiwei Zhao, our chief executive officer, and Jun Wang, our chief financial officer, have pledged their equity interest in CFO Fuhua to China Finance Online (Beijing) Co., Ltd, or CFO Beijing. According to the PRC Property Rights Law, which came into effect on October 1, 2007, such pledges will only be effective upon registration with the relevant local office for the administration for industry and commerce. We are in the process of obtaining the relevant registrations. There is no assurance that we can have these equity pledges registered successfully. Before a completed registration of the equity pledges, we cannot assure investors that the effectiveness of such pledges can be recognized in PRC courts if disputes arise regarding the pledged equity interests or that our subsidiaries’ interests as pledgee will prevail over those of third parties. If the variable interest entities, or VIEs, and their shareholders breach their respective obligations under the contractual arrangements that established our operations in China, failure to enforce pledges may leave us with fewer remedies in enforcing our contracts with our affiliated entities. In the event we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to exert effective control over our operating entities and we may be precluded from operating our business, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If the PRC government finds that the agreements that establish the structure for operating our online financial data and information services no longer comply with PRC government restrictions on foreign investment in the Internet content services industry, we could be subject to severe penalties. PRC regulations currently limit foreign ownership of companies that provide Internet content services, which include operating financial data and information services through the Internet, to be no more than 50%. Accordingly, foreign and wholly foreign-owned enterprises are currently not able to apply for the required licenses for operating such services in China. We are a foreign enterprise and each of our significant subsidiaries, CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, Jujin Software (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., or CFO Jujin, Zhengning Information & Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., or CFO Zhengning, Fortune (Beijing) Wisdom Technology Co., Ltd., or CFO Wisdom, and Fortune (Beijing) Success Technology Co., Ltd., or CFO Success, is a wholly foreign-owned enterprise under PRC law and, accordingly, neither we, CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom, nor CFO Success is eligible to apply for licenses to operate our website. In order to comply with foreign ownership restrictions, we operate our website in China through CFO Fuhua and its wholly owned subsidiary CFO Meining, both of which hold the licenses required to be an Internet information content provider under the relevant PRC laws. Zhiwei Zhao and Jun Wang hold 45% and 55% of the equity interests in CFO Fuhua, respectively. We have been and are expected to continue to be dependent on CFO Fuhua and its wholly owned subsidiary CFO Meining to host our websites, www.jrj.com and www.stockstar.com. We have entered into contractual arrangements with CFO Fuhua, pursuant to which we provide operational support to CFO Fuhua. In addition, we have entered into agreements with CFO Fuhua and Zhiwei Zhao and Jun Wang, the shareholders of CFO Fuhua, which provide us with the substantial ability to control CFO Fuhua. There are, however, substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of current or future PRC laws and regulations. Accordingly, we cannot assure investors that the PRC regulatory authorities will ultimately take a view that our arrangements with CFO Fuhua comply with PRC law. 21 Table of Contents If we or any of our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs are found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations or fail to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant PRC regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs; • discontinuing or restricting our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs’ operations; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we or our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs could not satisfy; • requiring us or our PRC subsidiaries and VIEs to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations; or • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions, including levying fines that could be harmful to our business. Any of these actions could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to suffer and the price of our ADSs to decline. In addition, it was widely reported in 2011 that the PRC Ministry of Commerce and the CSRC, among other Chinese regulatory authorities, may be considering increased scrutiny or enhanced regulation of Chinese companies that use VIE structures as a means of complying with Chinese laws prohibiting or restricting foreign ownership of certain businesses in China, including businesses we are engaged in such as Internet information and content services. Such news reports appear to have had the effect of causing significant drops in the market prices of the shares of many Chinese companies, including us, that are publicly-traded in the United States. If any such Chinese regulatory authorities were to increase scrutiny of VIE structures or adopt regulations specifically governing their use, such scrutiny would have a material adverse impact on us by causing us to materially change our existing operational structure. Contractual arrangements that we have entered into with our PRC-incorporated affiliates may be subject to scrutiny by the PRC tax authorities and a finding that we or our PRC-incorporated affiliates owe additional taxes could substantially reduce our consolidated net income. Under PRC laws and regulations, arrangements and transactions among related parties may be subject to audit or challenge by the PRC tax authorities. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that the contractual arrangements among our PRC-incorporated subsidiaries and PRC-incorporated affiliates do not represent an arm’s length price and adjust the income of our PRC-incorporated subsidiaries or that of our PRC-incorporated affiliates in the form of transfer pricing adjustments. Transfer pricing adjustments could, among other things, result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of expense deductions recorded by our PRC incorporated subsidiaries or affiliates, which could in turn increase their respective tax liabilities. In addition, the PRC tax authorities may impose late payment fees and other penalties on our PRC-incorporated subsidiaries or affiliates for underpayment of taxes. Our consolidated net income may be materially and adversely affected if our PRC-incorporated subsidiaries or affiliates’ tax liabilities increase or if they are found to be subject to late payment fees or other penalties. 22 Table of Contents We rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our wholly owned operating subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. We are a holding company, and our ability to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, repay any debt we may incur and meet our other cash requirements depends solely on our ability to receive dividends and other distributions from our PRC subsidiaries and consolidated affiliated entities to our offshore affiliates and/or other contractual arrangements, more specifically: (a) Earnings of our PRC subsidiaries that we directly own and operate inside the PRC, which include CFO Software, CFO Beijing, CFO Success, CFO Wisdom, CFO Genius, and CFO Stockstar, are transferred to us by means of dividend payments. The amount of dividends paid to us by our directly owned PRC subsidiaries depends mainly on the service fees paid to them from our consolidated affiliated entities. (b) Earnings of our PRC subsidiaries that we indirectly hold through an intermediary Hong Kong or British Virgin Islands company, which include CFO Zhengning and CFO Jujin, are transferred to us by means of dividend payments via such intermediary company. The transfer of dividend payments from such intermediary company to us is not subject to PRC taxation or other regulatory restrictions. (c) Earnings of the VIEs, which we exert control via a series contracts including without limitation exclusive technology consulting and management service agreement, exclusive purchase right agreement, power of attorney and pledge agreement, are first transferred in full (pre-tax) to our wholly foreign owned enterprise via such contractual arrangements. However, there are restrictions under PRC laws for the payment of dividends to us by our PRC subsidiaries. For example, if our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on its own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to make payments or distributions to us. Furthermore, relevant PRC laws and regulations permit payments of dividends by the PRC subsidiaries only out of their retained earnings, if any, as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Under PRC laws and regulations, the PRC subsidiaries are required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards each year to fund a statutory reserve. This reserve is not distributable as dividends until the accumulated amount of such reserve has exceeded 50.0% of its registered capital. Consequently, each of our PRC subsidiaries is restricted in its ability to transfer a portion of its net assets to us or any of our other subsidiaries in the form of dividends, loans or advances. In addition, PRC tax authorities may require us to amend the VIEs contractual arrangements that would materially and adversely affect the ability of CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Success and CFO Wisdom to pay dividends and other distributions to us. The foregoing restrictions on the ability of the PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to pay dividends to holders of our ADSs. Risks relating to doing business in the People’s Republic of China The PRC’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect the financial markets in China and our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. 23 Table of Contents The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, and control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has implemented measures since the late 1970s emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of improved corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The PRC government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. These actions, as well as future actions and policies of the PRC government, could materially affect the financial markets in China and our business and operations. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation which has been promulgated has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Our significant PRC operating subsidiaries, CFO Beijing, CFO Software, CFO Stockstar, CFO Genius, CFO Jujin, CFO Zhengning, CFO Wisdom and CFO Success, respectively, are wholly foreign-owned enterprises, which are enterprises incorporated in China and wholly owned by foreign investors. Our wholly foreign-owned enterprises are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China in general and laws and regulations applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises in particular. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are constantly changing, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors, including you. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, investment advisory and wealth management, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. The PRC government may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that it believes is inappropriate. China has enacted laws and regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news, information or other content, as well as products and services, through the Internet. In the past, the PRC government has stopped the distribution of information through the Internet that it believes violates PRC law. MIIT, the General Administration of Press and Publication and the Ministry of Culture has promulgated regulations which prohibit information from being distributed through the Internet if it contains content that is found to, among other things, propagate obscenity, gambling or violence, instigate crimes, undermine public morality or the cultural traditions of the PRC, or compromise State security or secrets. 24 Table of Contents In addition, MIIT has published regulations that subject website operators to potential liability for content included on their websites and the actions of users and others using their systems, including liability for violations of PRC laws prohibiting the distribution of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. The PRC’s Ministry of Public Security has the authority to order any local Internet service provider, or ISP, to block any Internet website maintained outside China at its sole discretion. Periodically, the Ministry of Public Security has stopped the distribution over the Internet of information which it believes to be socially destabilizing. The PRC’s State Secrecy Bureau, which is directly responsible for the protection of State secrets of the PRC government, is authorized to block any website it deems to be leaking State secrets or failing to meet the relevant regulations relating to the protection of State secrets in the distribution of online information. Under applicable PRC regulation, we may be held liable for any content we offer or will offer through our website, including information posted on bulletin boards and online forums which we host and maintain on our website. Furthermore, we are required to delete any content we transmit through our website if such content clearly violates PRC laws and regulations. Where any content is considered suspicious, we are required to report such content to PRC governmental authorities. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us. If any financial data and information services we offer or will offer through our website were deemed to have violated any of such content restrictions, we would not be able to continue such offerings and could be subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of licenses for operating online financial data and information services, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, if any information posted on our bulletin boards or online forums were deemed to have violated any of the content restrictions, we could be subject to similar penalties that materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the current tax benefits we enjoy in PRC were no longer available, our effective tax rates for our PRC operations could increase. The newly enacted PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, and the implementation regulations to the EIT Law issued by the State Council of PRC, became effective as of January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, China adopted a uniform tax rate of 25% for all enterprises (including domestically owned enterprises and foreign-invested enterprises) and revoked the previous tax exemption, reduction and preferential treatments applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. However, there is a five-year transitional period during which certain enterprises are allowed to continue to enjoy existing preferential tax treatments provided by the then-applicable tax laws and administrative regulations. Enterprises that were subject to an enterprise income tax rate lower than 25% prior to January 1, 2008 may continue to enjoy the lower rate and gradually transition to the uniform tax rate within five years after the effective date of the EIT Law. In 2012, four of our subsidiaries will terminate their five-year transitional period and will be subject to uniform tax rate of 25%, which materially increases our tax obligations. On April 14, 2008, the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation jointly issued the Administrative Measures on the Recognition of “High and New Technology Enterprises”, or the Recognition Rules, effective on January 1, 2008. According to the Recognition Rules, the provincial counterparts of the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation shall jointly determine whether an enterprise is qualified as a “High and New Technology Enterprise” under the EIT Law, who are entitled to enjoy preferential tax treatment and a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15%. The qualification is valid for three years from the date of award, and enterprises should submit the application for renewal. In 2011, two of our subsidiaries are classified as “High and New Technology Enterprises” and enjoy the preferential tax rate. There is no assurance that they will continue to be classified as the “High and New Technology Enterprises” when they are subject to reevaluation in the future. In the event that the preferential tax treatment for them is discontinued, these entities will become subject to the uniform tax rate of 25%, which materially increase our tax obligations. 25 Table of Contents On April 24, 2009, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation jointly promulgated Circular on Issues concerning the Implementation of Preferential Policies for Enterprise Income Tax, or Caishui Circular 69. According to Caishui Circular 69, subject to annual verification, a qualified software enterprise established prior to January 1, 2008 may continue to qualify under the tax holidays previously granted to it as a “software enterprise”. Where the software enterprise had qualified for tax holidays before 2008, it may continue to do so with respect to its remaining tax holidays from 2008 until the expiration of such tax holidays. In 2011, four of our subsidiaries are classified as “Software Enterprises” and experienced a preferential tax rate. However, one of our subsidiaries will not be classified as such because its tax holidays are terminated in 2012, which may increases our tax obligations. Our tax obligation shall be materially increased if the other three subsidiaries are not classified as software enterprises or their tax holidays shall be terminated. In addition, companies that develop their own software and register the software with relevant authorities in China were generally entitled to a value-added tax, or VAT, refund. With respect to revenue generated from the sale of certain online subscriptions, including our service packages, nine of our subsidiaries obtained VAT refunds that reduce their effective VAT rates from 17% to 3% before 2011. The VAT refund policy was reconfirmed pursuant to the Notice on VAT Policy for Software Products, effective January 1, 2011, jointly promulgated by the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation on October 13, 2011, or Caishui Circular 100. Although the Notice on VAT Policy for Software Products does not specify policy expiration date, in the event that the VAT refund policy for our subsidiaries is discontinued, our subsidiaries will become subject to the standard tax rate at 17%, which materially increase our tax obligations. Uncertainties in the PRC tax system may lead to penalties, termination of preferential tax treatment or change of tax levy method imposed on us because of a difference in interpretation of the applicable law by the relevant governmental authority. For example, under current tax laws and regulations, the local tax authority approved certain of our entities to file the income tax by adopting the “deemed-profit method”. Under the method, the entities filed the income tax by calculating the tax as 2.5% of the gross revenues. However, since there is no clear guidance as to the applicability of certain areas of preferential tax treatment and tax levy position, we may be found to be in violation of the tax laws and regulations based on the interpretation of local tax authorities with regard to taxable income and the applicable tax rates, and therefore might be subject to penalties, including but not limited to monetary penalties, termination of preferential tax treatment or change of tax levy method, or claw-back and late payment interest. Reduction or elimination of the preferential tax treatments we have enjoyed or change of our tax levy method on us or our combined entities in China may significantly increase our income tax expenses and materially reduce our net income, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future tax application and tax developments in the PRC legal system, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. The discontinuation of tax application could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. Any significant increase in our income tax expenses may materially and adversely affect our profit. 26 Table of Contents Enhanced scrutiny over acquisition transactions by the PRC tax authorities may have a negative impact on potential acquisitions we may pursue in the future. In connection with the EIT Law, the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation jointly issued, on April 30, 2009, the Notice on Issues Concerning Process of Enterprise Income Tax in Enterprise Restructuring Business, or Circular 59. On December 10, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Notice on Strengthening the Management on Enterprise Income Tax for Non-resident Enterprises Equity Transfer, or Circular 698. On July 26, 2010, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Bulletin Concerning Promulgation of Administrative Measures on the Enterprise Income Tax Treatment of Enterprise Reorganization, or Bulletin 4. On March 28, 2011, the State Administration of Taxation issued the Bulletin Concerning the Tax Administration of Non-resident Enterprises, or Bulletin 24. Both Circular 59 and Circular 698 became effective retroactively on January 1, 2008. Bulletin 4 became effective retroactively on January 1, 2010. Bulletin 24 took effective since April 1, 2011 and also applies to transactions that have occurred prior to its effectiveness for which the relevant PRC tax matters have not been dealt with. By promulgating and implementing these circulars, the PRC tax authorities have enhanced their scrutiny over the direct or indirect transfer of equity interests in a PRC resident enterprise by a non-resident enterprise. The PRC tax authorities have the discretion under Circular 59, and Circular 698, Bulletin 4 and Bulletin 24 to make adjustments to the taxable capital gains based on the difference between the fair value of the equity interests transferred and the cost of investment. If the PRC tax authorities make adjustments under Circular 59, Circular 698, Bulletin 4 or Bulletin 24, our income tax costs associated with such potential acquisitions will be increased. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The EIT Law provides that a maximum income tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises” to the extent such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10% through the implementation regulations unless any such non-PRC investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. We are a Hong Kong incorporated company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. According to Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Arrangement on Avoiding Double Taxation or Evasion of Taxation on Income agreed between the Mainland and Hong Kong Special Administrative Region in August 2006, dividends payable by a subsidiary located in the PRC to the company in Hong Kong who directly holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the subsidiary will be subject to a maximum 5% withholding tax under certain conditions. Since the preferential withholding tax is subject to the approval from competent taxation authorities in PRC, it remains uncertain whether our company in Hong Kong actually would be able to enjoy preferential withholding taxes for dividends distributed by our subsidiaries in China. If we are not able to enjoy the preferential withholding taxes and the tax rate may be 10% for dividends distributed by our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders and ADS holders. We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the EIT Law and be subject to the PRC taxation on our worldwide income. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its Implementing Rules, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on its worldwide income. The Implementing Rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” On April 22, 2009, the State Administration of Taxation, or the SAT, issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprise on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or SAT Circular 82, which provided certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore- incorporated enterprise is located in China. In addition, the SAT issued the Bulletin 45 on July 27, 2011 to provide more guidance on the implementation of the above circular with an effective date to be September 1, 2011. The Bulletin 45 made clarification in the areas of resident status determination, post-determination administration, as well as competent tax authorities. It also specifies that when provided with a copy of PRC tax resident determination certificate from a resident PRC -controlled offshore incorporated enterprise, the payer should not withhold 10% income tax when paying the PRC-sourced dividends, interest or royalties to the PRC-controlled offshore incorporated enterprise. Although SAT Circular 82 and the Bulletin 45 only apply to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not those controlled by PRC individuals, the determining criteria set forth in SAT Circular 82 and the administration clarification made in Bulletin 45 may reflect the SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or individuals. Accordingly, we may be considered a resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to the enterprise income tax at 25% on our worldwide income. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiary, a 25% enterprise income tax on our worldwide income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. 27 Table of Contents Dividends payable by us to our foreign investors and gain on the sale of our ADSs or ordinary shares may become subject to taxes under PRC tax laws. Under the EIT Law and implementation regulations issued by the State Council, PRC income tax at the rate of 10% is applicable to dividends generated on or after January 1, 2008 payable to investors that are “non-resident enterprises”, which do not have an establishment or place of business in the PRC, or which have such establishment or place of business but the relevant income is not effectively connected with the establishment or place of business, to the extent such dividends have their sources within the PRC. Similarly, any gain realized on the transfer of ADSs or shares by such investors is also subject to 10% PRC income tax if such gain is regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. If we are considered a PRC “resident enterprise”, it is unclear whether dividends we pay with respect to our ordinary shares or ADSs, or the gain you may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, would be treated as income derived from sources within the PRC and be subject to PRC tax. If we are required under the EIT Law to withhold PRC income tax on dividends payable to our non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises” or if you are required to pay PRC income tax on the transfer of our ordinary shares or ADSs, the value of your investment in our ordinary shares or ADSs may be materially and adversely affected. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Pursuant to the Foreign Currency Administration Rules promulgated on January 29, 1996 and amended on January 14, 1997 and various regulations issued by the Administration for Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) and other relevant PRC government authorities, Renminbi is freely convertible only to the extent of current account items, such as trade-related receipts and payments, interest and dividends. Capital account items, such as direct equity investments, loans and repatriation of investment, require the prior approval from the SAFE or its local branch for conversion of Renminbi into a foreign currency, such as U.S. dollars, and remittance of the foreign currency outside the PRC. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy its foreign currency-denominated obligations. Currently, each of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends to us and payment of license fees and service fees to foreign licensors and service providers, without the approval of SAFE. However, approval from the SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. Each of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates may also retain foreign exchange in their current accounts to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, we cannot assure investors that the relevant PRC governmental authorities will not limit or eliminate our ability to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders. Since a significant amount of our future revenues will be in the form of Renminbi, the existing and any future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in Renminbi to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. 28 Table of Contents In addition, as further explained in disclosures below, each of our PRC subsidiary and affiliated consolidated entities is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to its general reserves or statutory capital reserve fund until the accumulative amount of such reserve reaches 50% of its respective registered capital. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Because substantially all of our revenues and expenditures are denominated in Renminbi and the net proceeds from our initial public offering were denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds and our balance sheet and earnings per ADS in U.S. dollars. In addition, we report our financial results in U.S. dollars, and appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollars without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although currently the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 1% per day and the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium- to long-term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future, PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. The audit report included in this annual report are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), as such, our investors currently do not have the benefits of PCAOB oversight. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and applicable professional standards. Because our auditors are located in China, a jurisdiction where the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected by the PCAOB. 29 Table of Contents Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, our investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may consequently lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. PRC’s new labor law restricts our ability to reduce our workforce in the PRC in the event of an economic downturn and may increase our labor costs. The PRC Labor Contract Law became effective and was implemented on January 1, 2008. The Labor Contract Law has reinforced the protection for employees who, under the PRC Labor Contract Law, have the right, among others, to have written labor contracts, to enter into labor contracts with no fixed terms under certain circumstances, to receive overtime wages and to terminate or alter terms in labor contracts. Furthermore, the Labor Contract Law establishes additional restrictions and increases the costs involved with dismissing employees. As the Labor Contract Law is relatively new, there remains significant uncertainty as to its interpretation and application by the PRC government and courts. In the event that we decide to significantly reduce our workforce, particularly in the period with sluggish world economy prospect caused by the European debt crisis, the Labor Contract Law could adversely affect our ability to do so in a timely and cost effective manner, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, for employees whose contracts include non-competition terms, the Labor Contract Law requires employers to pay monthly compensation after such employment ends, which will increase employers’ operating expenses. Risks relating to our shares and ADSs Due to recent credit crisis of U.S.-listed Chinese companies caused by Chinese companies’ accounting scandals and the short selling agencies’ raider activities in the aggregate, the price of our underlying common stock might fluctuate significantly and if our stock price drops sharply, we may not satisfy the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ In 2011, there have been well-publicized accounting problems at several U.S.-listed Chinese companies that have resulted in significant drops in the trading prices of their shares and, in some cases, have led to the resignation of outside auditors, trading halts or share de-listings by NASDAQ or the New York Stock Exchange, and investigations by the Division of Enforcement of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Many, but not all, of the companies involved in these scandals had entered the U.S. trading market through “reverse mergers” into publicly traded shells. The scandals have had a broad effect on Chinese companies with shares listed in the United States. For example, Interactive Brokers Group joined other brokers in banning clients from borrowing money to buy securities of any of 160 Chinese companies, including Sina, Sohu and most PRC-based Internet companies. As of December 31, 2011, 46 U.S.-listed Chinese companies in total were compelled to delist or suspended from trading. We believe that, although we have had effective internal controls since our listing in NASDAQ in 2004, such accounting scandals in other Chinese companies could have an adverse effect on the market for shares of our underlying common stock. Investors could lose confidence in PRC companies in general, which could lead to fluctuations in the market prices of our underlying common stock and, if such prices were to drop sharply below $1.00 for 30 days consecutively, could cause us not to satisfy the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ. 30 Table of Contents In addition, some short selling agencies targeted U.S.-listed Chinese companies in 2011. Although the research reports issued by those short selling agencies regarding some U.S.-listed Chinese companies are meritless, those companies had suffered from significant fluctuations on their share prices. We cannot assure investors that we will not be the target of the short selling agencies in 2012. If we were to become their target, even if their claims are meritless, our share price may drop significantly, and if such prices were to drop sharply below $1.00 for 30 days consecutively, could cause us not to satisfy the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ. Stock prices of Internet-related companies, particularly companies with business operations primarily in China, have fluctuated widely in recent years, and the trading prices of our ADSs are likely to be volatile, which could result in substantial losses to investors. The trading prices of our ADSs have been volatile and could fluctuate widely in response to factors beyond our control. Since the completion of our initial public offering in October 2004, the trading prices of our ADSs have ranged between a high of $47.68 per ADS to a low of $1.43 per ADS as of December 31, 2011. During the twelve-month period ended December 31, 2011, the price of our ADSs has ranged from a low of $1.43 to a high of $7.27 per ADS. The market prices of the securities of Internet-related companies have generally been especially volatile. In particular, the performance and fluctuation of the market prices of other technology companies with business operations mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price of and trading volumes for our ADSs. Some of these companies have experienced significant volatility, including significant price declines in connection with their initial public offerings and as a result of the global financial crisis. The trading performances of these Chinese companies’ securities at the time of or after their offerings may affect the overall investor sentiment towards PRC companies listed in the United States and consequently may impact the trading performance of our ADSs. Changes in the U.S. stock market generally or as it concerns our industry, as well as geopolitical, economic, and business factors unrelated to us, may also affect the market price and volatility of our ADSs, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition to market and industry factors, the price and trading volume for our ADSs may be highly volatile for business specific reasons. Factors such as variations in our revenue, earnings and cash flow, announcements of strategic transition and new investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our services could cause the market price for our ADSs to change substantially. The global financial crisis may have substantial negative impact on our financial and business performance. Any of these factors may result in large and sudden changes in the volume and price at which our ADSs will trade. We cannot assure investors that these factors will not occur in the future. If we grant employee share options and other share-based compensation in the future, our net income could be materially and adversely affected. We adopted the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan, or the 2004 Plan, in January 2004, and amended it in September 2004, August 2006, June 2009, and June 2010, respectively. The total number of ordinary shares issuable under the 2004 Plan as of December 31, 2011 is 24,688,488, including the newly increased 3,000,000 ordinary shares available for issuance under the 2004 Plan approved by our shareholders at the annual general meeting held on June 30, 2010. At the 2010 annual general meeting, our shareholders approved the increase in the number of ordinary shares available for issuance under the 2004 Plan by 3,000,000 ordinary shares annually until December 31, 2014. As of December 31, 2011, we had granted options under the 2004 Plan with the right to purchase a total of 21,917,328 ordinary shares, and 5,049,980 unvested options had been returned to the pool of our ungranted options as a result of resignation from employment by several former employees. We had also granted share options to purchase up to 6,829,500 ordinary shares in January 2004, under option agreements that were independent of the 2004 Plan, to other consultants and business advisors. 31 Table of Contents We adopted the 2007 Equity Incentive Plan, or the 2007 Plan, in June 2007. As of December 31, 2011, we had granted restricted stock awards covering 10,558,493 of our ordinary shares to our eligible employees pursuant to the Restricted Stock Issuance and Allocation Agreement, or the Grant Agreement, entered into in July 2007 under the 2007 Plan. The Grant Agreement provides that the shares granted pursuant to it may become activated and vested during the three years following the granted date, or the Vesting Term, based on our achievement of certain performance targets for 2008 and 2009, or the Performance Period. Based on our operating performance during 2008, 8,658,048 shares were activated as of December 31, 2008. Based on our operating performance during 2009, no granted share was activated in 2009. In 2009, in light of the significant global economic downturn and its impact on our performance, our board amended the Grant Agreement to extend the Performance Period and the Vesting Term for an additional three years ending on December 31, 2012. Under the amended agreement any granted shares that were not activated as of December 31, 2009 would become activated and be eligible to vest based on the company’s achievement of certain performance targets for 2010, 2011 and 2012. Based on our operating performance for 2010 and 2011, no more granted shares were activated in 2010 or 2011. The total 8,658,048 shares that were activated based on our operating performance for 2008 were fully vested as of December 31, 2011. All the shares granted under the Grant Agreement that have not been activated and vested by the end of calendar year 2012 will be forfeited to the company. On November 1, 2010, Daily Growth Financial Holdings Limited, or Daily Growth Holdings granted restricted stock awards representing 15% of its ordinary shares pursuant to the 2010 Equity Incentive Plan of Daily Growth Holdings to awardees who are eligible to participate in the plan. In connection with such awards, we transferred 15% of the ordinary shares of Daily Growth Holdings to an entity representing the eligible awardees. In order to bind those awardees together to promote the common interests of the awardees, Daily Growth Holdings and the company, the ordinary shares were transferred to, and are held by, Hopewin Asia Limited, which was incorporated in BVI, on behalf of and exclusively for the benefit of the whole group of awardees eligible to participate in the plan. We believe such incentive plan will attract, maintain and incentivize our team, and we believe the plan is in our best interests and the best interests of our stockholders. The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our ADSs could adversely affect their market price. Sales of substantial amounts of our ADSs in the public market in the future, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ADSs and could materially impair our future ability to raise capital through offerings of our ADSs. There were 110,935,383 of our ordinary shares including 20,516,551 ADSs (representing 102,582,755 of those ordinary shares) outstanding as of December 31, 2011. In addition, there are outstanding options to purchase an additional 11,994,698 ordinary shares, including options to purchase 1,095,000 ordinary shares under the option agreements that were independent of the 2004 Plan. These ordinary shares, once issued, are exchangeable for our ADSs for trading in the public market. The 82,837,921 ordinary shares that were outstanding prior to our initial public offering are “restricted securities” as defined in Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act and may not be sold in the absence of registration other than in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act or another exemption from registration. These “restricted securities” are available for sale subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. To the extent ordinary shares are sold to the market, the market price of our ADSs could decline. 32 Table of Contents A significant percentage of our outstanding ordinary shares are held by a small number of our shareholders, and these shareholders may have significantly greater influence on us and our corporate actions by nature of the size of their shareholdings relative to our public shareholders. As of December 31, 2011, seven of our existing shareholders, including Zhiwei Zhao, IDG Technology Venture Investments, LP, IDG Technology Venture Investment Inc., Vertex Technology Fund (III) Ltd., Ling Zhang, Jianping Lu and Harvest Capital Strategies LLC, beneficially owned, collectively, approximately 59.99% of our outstanding ordinary shares. For more information regarding our principal shareholders and their affiliated entities, see “ITEM 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees - E. Share Ownership”. Accordingly, these shareholders have had, and may continue to have, significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to the shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. In addition, without the consent of these shareholders, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. Provisions in our charter documents and Hong Kong law, and change in control agreements we have entered into with each of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit your opportunity to sell your shares at a premium. Our constituent documents and Hong Kong law include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change in control transactions, including, among other things, the following: • Our articles of association provide for a staggered board, which means that certain number of our directors, not exceeding the half of the remaining directors after excluding our chief executive officer, are retired at every annual general meeting and the vacancies created by the retirement stand for election. Our chief executive officer will at all time serve as a director, and will not retire as a director, so long as he remains our chief executive officer. This means that, with our staggered board, at least two annual shareholders’ meetings, instead of one, are generally required in order to effect a change in a majority of our directors. Our staggered board can discourage proxy contests for the election of our directors and purchases of substantial blocks of our shares by making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to take control of our board in a relatively short period of time. • Hong Kong law permits shareholders of a company to remove directors by a shareholders’ resolution. Our articles of association require any shareholder who wishes to remove a director in this way to give us at least 120 days’ notice of the resolution, making it more difficult and time consuming for a potential acquirer who has accumulated a substantial voting position to obtain control of our board by removing opposing directors. • Our articles of association provide that our board can have no less than five and no more than nine directors. Our board currently has five directors as of the date of this report. Any increase in the maximum number of directors on our board beyond nine directors can only be accomplished by amending our articles of association, which under Hong Kong law requires a shareholders’ supermajority vote of 75% and at least 21 days’ notice. These restrictions can make it more difficult for a potential acquirer who has accumulated a majority of our shares to take control of us by promptly increasing the size of our board and appointing new directors that are its nominees. 33 Table of Contents • Hong Kong does not have merger laws that permit Hong Kong companies to merge in the same way as U.S. companies could in the United States. However, the Hong Kong Companies Ordinance has provisions that facilitate arrangements for the reconstruction and amalgamation of companies. The arrangement must be approved by a majority in number of each class of shareholders and creditors with whom the arrangement is to be made, representing three-fourths in value of each such class of shareholders or creditors that are present and voting either in person or by proxy at meetings convened by the High Court of Hong Kong. The arrangements must be sanctioned by the High Court of Hong Kong after shareholders or creditors approve it at the court-convened meeting. • Our shareholders have authorized our board of directors, without any further action by shareholders, to issue additional shares. Under Hong Kong law, the authority granted by our shareholders will remain valid until the conclusion of our next annual general meeting, or the time when our next annual general meeting is required to be held. For as long as this approval remains effective, or is renewed, our board of directors will have the power to issue additional ordinary shares (including ordinary shares represented by ADSs) and preference shares without any further action by shareholders. We are a Hong Kong company and because the legal and procedural protections of minority shareholders under Hong Kong law differ from those under U.S. law, you may have difficulty protecting your interests as our shareholder relative to shareholders of corporations organized in the U.S. We are a Hong Kong company and are subject to the laws of Hong Kong. The fiduciary responsibilities of our directors and the ability of minority shareholders to take successful legal action in Hong Kong against us or our directors, are governed by the laws and court procedures of Hong Kong. Shareholders of a Hong Kong company would not be able to bring class action lawsuits against that company or its directors in a Hong Kong court in the same way that shareholders of a U.S. corporation might be able to bring such lawsuits in a U.S. court. In addition, professional conduct rules applicable to Hong Kong lawyers generally prohibit Hong Kong lawyers from accepting contingency fee arrangements, where a lawyer representing the plaintiffs is paid a fee only if the lawsuit is successful. Without contingency fee arrangements or the ability to bring class action lawsuits, our shareholders may find it more costly and difficult to take legal action against us or our directors in the Hong Kong courts. The Hong Kong courts are also unlikely: • to recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; or • to allow original actions brought in Hong Kong, based on the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. In addition, there is no automatic statutory recognition in Hong Kong of judgments obtained in the United States. Moreover, Hong Kong companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. As a result of the entire above, minority public shareholders may have more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, directors or controlling shareholders than they would as minority public shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Moreover, substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States and all of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. 34 Table of Contents The voting rights of holders of ADSs must be exercised in accordance with the terms of the deposit agreement, the American depositary receipts, and the procedures established by the depositary. The process of voting through the depositary may involve delays that limit the time available to you to consider proposed shareholders’ actions and also may restrict your ability to subsequently revise your voting instructions. A holder of ADSs may exercise his/her/its voting rights with respect to the underlying ordinary shares only in accordance with the provisions of the deposit agreement and the American depositary shares. When the depositary receives from us notice of any shareholders meeting, it will distribute the information in the meeting notice and any proxy solicitation materials to you. The depositary will determine the record date for distributing these materials, and only ADS holders registered with the depositary on that record date will, subject to applicable laws, be entitled to instruct the depositary to vote the underlying ordinary shares. The depositary will also determine and inform you of the manner for you to give your voting instructions, including instructions to give discretionary proxies to a person designated by us. Upon receipt of voting instructions of a holder of ADSs, the depositary will endeavor to vote the underlying ordinary shares in accordance with these instructions. Although Hong Kong law requires us to call annual shareholders’ meetings by not less than 21 days’ notice in writing, and all other shareholders’ meeting by not less than 14 days’ notice in writing, these minimum notice requirements can be shortened or completely waived by the consent of all holders of our ordinary shares entitled to attend and vote (in the case of annual shareholders’ meetings) or a majority in number of the holders of our ordinary shares representing at least 95% in nominal value of the shares giving the right to attend and vote (in the case of all other shareholders’ meetings). If the minimum notice periods are shortened or waived, you may not receive sufficient notice of a shareholders’ meeting for you to withdraw your ordinary shares and cast your vote with respect to any proposed resolution, as a holder of our ordinary shares. In addition, the depositary and its agents may not be able to send materials relating to the meeting and voting instruction forms to you, or to carry out your voting instructions, in a timely manner. We cannot assure investors that you will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that you can instruct the depositary to vote your shares. The additional time required for the depositary to receive from us and distribute to you meeting notices and materials, and for you to give voting instructions to the depositary with respect to the underlying ordinary shares, will result in your having less time to consider meeting notices and materials than holders of ordinary shares who receive such notices and materials directly from us and who vote their ordinary shares directly. If you have given your voting instructions to the depositary and subsequently decide to change those instructions, you may not be able to do so in time for the depositary to vote in accordance with your revised instructions. Furthermore, the depositary has deemed any holders who do not send in voting instructions at all or in a timely manner as having instructed the depository to give a discretionary voting proxy to the person(s) designated by us to receive voting proxies, with full power to exercise such holder’s (or holders’) voting rights under the ADSs’ underlying ordinary shares in the manner as the proxy holder deems fit. Accordingly, matters that favor the incumbent board of directors and management will have a higher likelihood of passing than would otherwise be the case. The depositary and its agents will not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instructions to vote, for the manner in which any vote is cast or for the effect of any such vote. 35 Table of Contents You may not receive distributions on our ordinary shares or any value for them if such distribution is illegal or if any requisite government approval cannot be obtained in order to make such distribution available to you. The depositary of our ADSs has agreed to pay to you the cash dividends or other distributions (which may include securities or rights distributions) it or the custodian for our ADSs receives on our ordinary shares or other deposited securities after deducting its fees and expenses. You will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of our ordinary shares your ADSs represent. However, the depositary is not responsible to make a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if it decides that it is unlawful to make such distribution. For example, it would be unlawful to make a distribution to holder of ADSs if it consisted of securities that required registration under the Securities Act but that were not properly registered or distributed pursuant to an applicable exemption from registration. The depositary is not responsible for making a distribution available to any holders of ADSs if any government approval or registration required for such distribution cannot be obtained after reasonable efforts made by the depositary. We have no obligation to take any other action to permit the distribution of our ADSs, ordinary shares, rights or anything else to holders of our ADSs. This means that you may not receive the distributions we make on our ordinary shares or any value for them if it is unlawful or unreasonable from a regulatory perspective for us to make them available to you. These restrictions may have a material adverse effect on the value of your ADSs. You may be subject to limitations on transfer of your ADSs. Your ADSs, each of which represents five ordinary shares, are transferable on the books of the depositary. However, the depositary may close its books at any time or from time to time when it deems expedient in connection with the performance of its duties. The depositary may close its books from time to time for a number of reasons, including in connection with corporate events such as a rights offering, during which time the depositary needs to maintain an exact number of ADS holders on its books for a specified period. The depositary may also close its books in emergencies, and on weekends and public holidays. The depositary may refuse to deliver, transfer or register transfers of our ADSs generally when the books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if we or the depositary thinks it is advisable to do so because of any requirement of law or any government or governmental body, or under any provision of the deposit agreement, or for any other reason. Your right as a holder of ADSs to participate in any future rights offerings may be limited, which may cause dilution to your holdings. We may from time to time distribute rights to our shareholders, including rights to acquire our securities. However, we cannot make rights available to our ADS holders in the United States unless we register the rights and the securities to which the rights relate under the Securities Act or an exemption from the registration requirements is available. In addition, the deposit agreement provides that the depositary bank will not make rights available to you unless the distribution to ADS holders of both the rights and any related securities are either registered under the Securities Act or exempted from registration under the Securities Act. We are under no obligation to file a registration statement with respect to any such rights or securities or to endeavor to cause such a registration statement to be declared effective. Moreover, we may not be able to establish an exemption from registration under the Securities Act. Accordingly, ADS holders may be unable to participate in our rights offerings and may experience dilution in their holdings. In addition, if the depositary is unable to sell rights that are not exercised or not distributed or if the sale is not lawful or reasonably practicable, it will allow the rights to lapse, in which case you will receive no value for these rights. 36 Table of Contents We were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for the taxable year ended December 31, 2011, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to U.S. Holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares. Based on the market price of our ADSs and the value and composition of our assets, we believe we were a “passive foreign investment company”, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for the taxable year ended December 31, 2011 and may be classified as a PFIC for the current taxable year unless our share value increases and/or we invest a substantial amount of the cash and other passive assets we hold in assets that produce or are held for the production of active income. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets during a taxable year) is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The value of our assets is generally determined by reference to the market price of our ADSs and ordinary shares, which may fluctuate significantly. Because we believe we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2011, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. Holders with respect to any “excess distribution” received from us and any gain from a sale or other disposition of our ADSs or ordinary shares. For more information on the U.S. tax consequences to you that would result from our classification as a PFIC, please see “Item 10.E. Additional Information — Taxation — U.S. Federal Income Taxation — Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 