Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including a declining growth rate in North America, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock. Our current business and future prospects are difficult to evaluate. We commenced operations in late 2004 in North America, and developed a strategy for taking advantage of what we believe is a shift of local marketing budgets from traditional media formats to digital media formats. Our strategy allowed us to grow rapidly. However, our growth rate in North America has slowed and, as a result, our overall growth rate has also declined. In 2013, our North America revenues, which accounted for 66% of our 2013 revenues, grew by 4.5% versus 13.1% and 19.7% growth in 2012 and 2011, respectively. We are expanding internationally, realigning our North American sales force and introducing new go-to-market strategies, and introducing new products to continue to grow our business, but we cannot assure you that our strategy will be successful and that our growth rate will not decline further. In particular, although our international salespeople are currently considerably more productive than our North American salespeople, as those markets mature over time, our international salespeople’s productivity may decline further, putting further pressure on our growth rate and results of operations. You must also consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we encounter as a company in the rapidly evolving online marketing industry. These risks and difficulties include: • our limited number of product offerings and the difficulties and risks associated with developing and selling new products and solutions, including, in particular, new subscription and software-as-a-service (SaaS) products; • successfully entering new markets, domestically and internationally; • successfully executing new sales and go-to-market strategies and approaches, including the realignment of our North American sales force; • maintaining the effectiveness of our technology platform, and adapting our technology to new market opportunities and challenges; • competition from existing and new competitors, technologies, and products; • reaching and maintaining profitability; • continuing to attract new SMB clients, many of which have not previously advertised online and may not understand the value to their businesses of our products and services; and • effectively managing continued growth in our sales force, personnel and operations. Failing to successfully address these challenges or others could significantly harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. We have incurred significant operating losses in the past and may incur significant operating losses in the future. At December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $29.6 million, and we may incur net operating losses in the future. We expect our operating expenses to continue to increase in the future as we expand our operations. Our business strategy contemplates hiring significant numbers of additional salespeople, both in new and existing markets, as well as making substantial investments in new and existing products, which will require significant expenditures. If our revenue does not grow to offset these increased expenses, we will not be profitable. We also expect that a variety of factors, including increased competition and the maturation of our business, may continue to cause our revenue growth rate to decline in the future, and we cannot assure you that our revenue will continue to grow or will not decline. As a result, you should not consider our historical revenue growth as indicative of our future performance. Furthermore, if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance will be adversely affected. We cannot be certain that the significant steps that we have taken to strengthen our North American market will work. Commencing in the fourth quarter of 2013, we realigned our sales infrastructure in North America, which disrupted revenue growth in that quarter and is expected to continue to affect revenue adversely through the first half of 2014. We aligned the North American sales team into two specialist groups—those that acquire new clients, and those that manage clients—and continue to look for ways of optimizing our go-to-market strategy. While we believe this realignment will reaccelerate growth in North America, we cannot be certain that it will be successful. We also cannot be certain that the slowdown attributable to this realignment that we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2013, and which we expect to hamper results in the first half of 2014, will not depress results beyond that time frame. PAGE 11 Table Of Contents We have undergone significant management changes in 2013 and presently have an Interim Chief Executive Officer. In 2013, Zorik Gordon, founder and CEO, Nathan Hanks, founder and President, and Michael Kline, founder and Chief Strategy Officer, each left the Company. David Carlick, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, became interim CEO and Josh Claman, formerly our Chief Revenue Officer, was promoted to President. The Board is leading a search to find a new CEO. No assurance can be made, however, as to when we will hire a new CEO. The existing management team is actively managing the business in accordance with a business strategy approved by the Board of Directors. However, if we are unable to hire a permanent CEO in a timely manner, it may adversely impact our ability to execute on our strategic plans. We depend on key personnel to operate our business, and our workforce has undergone significant disruption in 2013 and in 2014 which may adversely affect performance and tenure. We believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of our executive officers, as well as our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, sales, technical and finance personnel. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract them. All of our U.S. officers and other U.S. employees are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. If we are unable to attract and retain our executive officers and key employees, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. In an effort to streamline our operations towards a goal of improving our operating results, we have engaged in two modest reductions in force since the third quarter of 2013, which has contributed to some unease and a drop in morale within our work force. While we have taken reasonable steps to ensure that our key people are adequately incented to stay with the Company, we cannot be certain that such incentives will be sufficient to keep our top performers. Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price and limitations imposed by the size of our equity plan, may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. Some of our executive officers have become vested in a substantial amount of stock or stock options. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. Our new product, ReachEdge, is an important part of our product roadmap and is a largely untested product concept that may not gain market acceptance or may not perform as we intend. We have recently launched ReachEdge, which is an automated marketing system that combines an optimized website and automated lead management. The success of this new product is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, such as uncertain customer acceptance, the difficulties of designing a complex software product, integrating ReachEdge with our existing technology and third-party service providers, training our salespeople to sell ReachEdge, and gaining market acceptance. Because the product is complex and incorporates a variety of proprietary and third-party software, ReachEdge may have errors or defects that could result in unanticipated downtime for our customers and harm to our reputation and our business. Internet-based services frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. In addition, our customers may use ReachEdge in unanticipated ways that may cause a disruption in service for other customers attempting to access their data. Since our customers may use this product for important aspects of their business, such as lead generation, lead management, scheduling, and other services, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems, could damage our customers’ businesses and result in financial losses, which would hurt our reputation. As a result, customers could elect to not renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us. In addition, ReachEdge is a relatively novel product and, therefore, wide market acceptance cannot be assured. A substantial component of our ReachEdge platform is outsourced to a third party. While we believe that our relationship with such third party is sound, if the relationship were to deteriorate, our ability to sell and maintain ReachEdge could be substantially degraded. PAGE 12 Table Of Contents We purchase most of our media from Google, and our business could be adversely affected if Google takes actions that are adverse to our interests or if we fail to meet advertiser or spend targets necessary for receiving rebates from Google. Similar actions from Yahoo!, Microsoft and other media providers could adversely affect our business, though to a lesser degree. Nearly all of our cost of revenue is for the purchase of media, and a substantial majority of the media we purchase is from Google. Google accounts for a large majority of all U.S. searches, and Google’s share in foreign markets is often even greater. As a result, we expect that our business will depend upon media purchases from Google for the foreseeable future. This dependence makes us vulnerable to actions that Google may take to change the manner in which it sells AdWords, as described below, or conducts its business on a number of levels: • Google Can Choose to Change the Terms and Conditions Upon Which it Does Business with Us and our Clients. Google can act unilaterally to change the terms and conditions for our purchase of media or the purchase of Google products, and Google has done so in the past. Future changes by Google to the terms and conditions upon which we purchase media could materially and adversely affect our business. • Competitive Risk. Google offers its products directly to SMBs through an online self-service option. Google enjoys substantial competitive advantages over us, such as substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. In addition, Google continues to launch products that are targeted directly at SMBs, which Google does not always make available to third parties. While we cannot assess at this time the effect of Google’s offering such products directly to SMBs, the prices charged by Google for direct service are lower than the prices we charge for the same media. • Technology Risk. Our technology platform interacts with Google through publicly available application programming interfaces, or APIs. If Google were to discontinue the availability of all or a portion of these APIs to us, we may have to change our technology, incur additional costs or discontinue certain products or services that we currently offer our clients. Any of these changes could adversely affect our ability to provide effective online marketing and reporting solutions to our clients. In addition, Google may decide to alter the amount it charges us for the right to use its APIs, which would decrease our gross margin absent any change in our pricing to our customers. • Editorial Control. Google closely monitors the experience of end-users, and from time-to-time, its editorial personnel request that companies alter their services based on Google’s determination that aspects of such services could adversely affect the end-user experience and/or avoid providing Google-dependent services to certain types of clients. For example, each of our media products includes TotalTrack, a tracking service powered by our proprietary reverse proxy technology and tracking code. If Google were to determine that the tracking URLs utilized by our TotalTrack service adversely affects the end-user’s experience, Google could require us to alter or suspend the way we implement our tracking solutions. Such a change would significantly decrease our ability to optimize our clients’ advertising campaigns and limit our ability to provide the level of campaign performance reporting that we currently provide to our clients. • Rebate/Incentive Risk. Google retains broad authority with respect to its rebate programs and has, from time to time, canceled rebate programs. In the second quarter of 2011, we entered into reseller agreements with Google that, among other things, provide us with certain performance bonuses if certain advertiser and spend targets, including share of retail requirements, are met. If we fail to meet those targets, and do not qualify for the rebates, our operating results would be harmed. Our reseller agreements with Google expire May 1, 2014 in Europe and Asia-Pacific, and June 30, 2014 in North America, and are subject to broad mutual termination rights and there is no assurance of renewal. Termination of those agreements would negatively affect our cost of revenue. In addition, any new developments or rumors of developments regarding Google’s business practices that affect the local online advertising industry may create perceptions with our customers or investors that our ability to compete has been impaired. The above risks also apply to other publishers from whom we purchase media, including Yahoo! and Microsoft. PAGE 13 Table Of Contents We purchase a significant majority of our media from Google, Microsoft and Yahoo! in an auction marketplace. If we are unable to purchase media from any one of these companies, if prices for media significantly increase or if the manner in which the media is sold changes, our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends on our ability to purchase media from Google, Microsoft and Yahoo! at reasonable prices so that we can provide our clients with a reasonable return on the advertising expenditures they make through us. We generally purchase this media in an auction marketplace. Increased competition or other factors may cause the cost of the media that we purchase from Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft to rise. In particular, if our expectation that local SMB advertising will increasingly migrate to the Internet is correct, the marketing budget available to bid in these auctions will increase and the price of media may increase substantially. An increase in the cost of media in these marketplaces without a corresponding increase in our media buying efficiency could result in an increase in our cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue even if our business expands. In addition, such an increase could result in an increase in the prices we must charge our clients or a decrease in our ability to fulfill our clients’ service expectations. Furthermore, the Internet search companies that operate these media marketplaces may change the operating rules or bidding procedures in ways that decrease the effectiveness of the technology that we use to optimize our purchases or otherwise prevent us from purchasing media at reasonable prices or at all. Any change in our ability to provide effective online marketing campaigns to our clients may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain clients. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive, particularly in North America, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The market for online marketing solutions is intensely competitive and rapidly changing, and with the emergence of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. Our competitors include: • Internet Online Publishers. We compete with large Internet marketing providers such as Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft. These providers typically offer their products and services through disparate, online-only, self-service platforms. • Traditional, Offline Media Companies. We compete with traditional yellow page, newspaper, television and radio companies that, in many cases, have large, direct sales forces and digital publishing properties. • Local SMB Marketing Providers. The market for internet marketing services is highly fragmented and there are a number of smaller companies which provide internet marketing services and may be able to offer such services at highly competitive prices. • SMB Marketing Technology Providers. We also compete with technology companies providing online marketing platforms focused on the SMB market such as Angie’s List, Groupon, Intuit, Web.com, Wix, and Yelp, and, in some cases, building significant direct sales forces. • New Competitors in New Markets. We recently launched ReachEdge, a new software-as-a-service, or SaaS, product, which is a marketing system that combines an optimized website and automated lead management. We are also developing other new subscription and SaaS products designed to provide SMBs additional tools to convert leads to customers, retain customers, and transact with customers. In each case, as we enter new markets we will encounter new competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, substantially greater financial, technical and other resources and, in some cases, the ability to combine their online marketing products with traditional offline media such as newspapers or yellow pages. These companies may use these advantages to offer products similar to ours at a lower price, develop different products to compete with our current solutions and respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or client requirements. In particular, if major Internet search companies such as Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft decide to devote greater resources to develop and market online advertising offerings directly to SMBs, greater numbers of our clients and potential clients may choose to purchase online advertising services directly from these competitors, particularly if and as the ease of their self-service models increases. In addition, many of our current and potential competitors have established marketing relationships with and access to larger client bases and are heavily investing in recruiting sales personnel, which might affect our ability to achieve our salespeople hiring targets. As the market for local online advertising increases, we expect new competitors, business models and solutions to emerge, some of which may be superior to ours. We also believe that the marketplace for online media is more transparent than other media marketplaces. Our competitors may use information available to them to price their products at a discount to the prices that we currently offer. Clients and potential clients might adopt competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our solutions, even if our online marketing and reporting solutions are more effective than those offered by our competitors, if we are not able to differentiate our products and convince clients that our products are more effective that our competitors’ offerings. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and potential competitors. PAGE 14 Table Of Contents Our future success depends in part on our ability to effectively develop and sell additional products and solutions. We invest in the development of new products and solutions with the expectation that we will be able to effectively offer them to our clients. We are developing, and may in the future develop or acquire, other products and solutions that address new segments of an SMB’s marketing activities. We are also developing subscription and SaaS products, such as ReachEdge, which present different challenges from those we have faced in the past. Our future revenue depends in part on our ability to stay competitive with our product and service offerings, including providing integrated solutions to our clients. Our ability to develop and launch new products on our expected timelines, or at all, is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, such as the difficulties of designing complex software products, achieving desired functionality and integrating the new products with our existing technology. The sale of new or additional features, products and services, the value or utility of which may be different from our current products and services or less easily understood by our clients, may require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts and increased operating expenses, as well as additional training of our salespeople and education for our SMB clients. New product launches require the investment of resources in advance of any revenue generation. If new products fail to achieve market acceptance, we may never realize a return on this investment. If these efforts are not successful, our business may suffer. Many SMBs have modest advertising budgets. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our SMB clients will increase their aggregate spending as a result of the introduction of new products and services or that the successful introduction of new products or services will not adversely affect sales of our current products and services through cannibalization of our current products or disharmony created by consumer offerings that could be perceived as in competition with our current customers. Any such adverse impact on our current media products could also adversely affect our publisher rebates. We may be unsuccessful in managing or growing our international operations, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We currently have international sales operations in Australia, the United Kingdom, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, Japan, Brazil, Austria and Belguim, and campaign support services in India. Revenue from international operations outside North America accounted for 33.5%, 28.1% and 22.9% of total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Over the long term, we intend to expand our international operations. We may incur losses or otherwise fail to enter new markets successfully. Our ability to operate internationally involves various risks, including the need to invest significant resources, the possibility that returns on such investments will not be achieved in the near future and competitive environments with which we are unfamiliar. Our international operations may not prove to be successful in certain or any markets. In addition, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses as we attempt to establish our presence in particular international markets. Our current and any future international expansion plans will require management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful. Furthermore, in many international markets, we would not be the first entrant, and greater competition may exist with stronger brand recognition than we have faced in our current markets. Different privacy, censorship and liability standards and regulations and different intellectual property laws in foreign countries may cause our business and operating results to suffer. Our international operations may also fail to succeed due to other risks inherent in foreign operations, including: • difficulties or delays in developing a network of clients in one or more international markets; • legal, political or systemic restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to market products and services or otherwise do business in foreign countries; • different regulatory requirements, including regulation of internet services, privacy and data protection, banking and money transmitting, and selling, that may limit or prevent the offering of our products in some jurisdictions; • international intellectual property laws that may be insufficient to protect our intellectual property or permit us to successfully defend ourselves or our intellectual property in international lawsuits; • different employee/employer relationships and the existence of workers’ councils and labor unions, which could make it more difficult to terminate underperforming salespeople; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; PAGE 15 Table Of Contents • currency fluctuations or a weakening U.S. dollar, which can increase costs of international expansion; • potential adverse tax consequences, including the difficulty of repatriating money; • lack of infrastructure to adequately conduct electronic commerce transactions; and • price controls or other restrictions on foreign currency. As a result of these obstacles, we may find it impossible or prohibitively expensive to continue or expand our international operations and replicate our business model, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Failure to adequately recruit, train and retain our salespeople would impede our growth and could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to maintain or grow revenue and achieve profitability will depend, in part, on increasing the size of our direct sales force. Commencing in the fourth quarter of 2013, we realigned our sales infrastructure in North America into two specialist groups: Sales Executives (SEs), our hunters, and Account Executives (AEs), our farmers. If many of our SEs and AEs do not perform well in their new roles, or are unhappy with the realignment, we may experience greater than anticipated attrition. We are also increasing our inside sales force in North America and intend to launch inside sales operations in Asia-Pacific and Europe. Inside sales SEs require different skills than outside salespeople and we may have difficulty growing these operations as intended. If our salespeople attrition is greater than anticipated, our business will be harmed. In addition, as more companies seek to capitalize on the shift to online media, competition for knowledgeable and qualified online media sales personnel will increase, and hiring for the new SE and AE roles may be more difficult than it has been hiring IMCs historically. Moreover, employees that we hire from our competitors have in the past, and may in the future, be subject to claims of breach of noncompetition and non-solicitation obligations owed to their former employers, which could impact our ability to attract and hire high-quality candidates and potentially subject us to litigation. If we are unable to effectively recruit, train and retain salespeople, we may not be able to grow our sales force, our revenue may suffer or our costs may increase. One of our international growth strategies is to enter new international markets through franchise or reseller arrangements, and our franchisee OxataSMB has not performed as contemplated. In July 2012, the Company entered into a franchise agreement with OxataSMB B.V. permitting it to operate and resell our services under the ReachLocal brand in Slovakia, Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Russia. At the same time, we entered into a market development loan agreement with OxataSMB pursuant to which we agreed to provide financing to OxataSMB of up to €2.9 million ($3.7 million), of which €1.45 million ($1.9 million) was immediately advanced and €0.92 million ($1.2 million) was advanced in August 2013. The OxataSMB operations have not performed as contemplated, and as a result, the Company recorded a $3.3 million impairment of the loan receivable and related interest from OxataSMB and a $1.6 million provision for bad debt related to the trade receivable from OxataSMB. While we continue to do business with OxataSMB and now require media spend to be paid in advance, it’s possible that OxataSMB could fail. As we expand into other international markets, in addition to entering markets directly, we may enter through a franchisee or a reseller (as we have in New Zealand and Singapore). The success of such strategy will depend on a number of factors, including whether our franchisees and resellers have the experience and financial resources to be effective operators and remain aligned with us on operating, promotional and capital-intensive initiatives, and the potential impact on us if they experience operational problems or project a brand image inconsistent with our values, particularly if our contractual and other rights and remedies are limited by local law or otherwise, or are costly to exercise. Difficulties of one or more of our international franchisee or reseller arrangements could result in losses stemming from related strategic investments, delay penetration into and/or negatively affect our brand in certain international markets, and distract management and absorb product development resources. More consumers are using devices other than personal computers to access the Internet and accessing new platforms to make search queries. If we are unable to effectively reach consumers on the Internet on behalf of our customers, our business could be adversely affected. The number of people who access the internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones and tablets, has increased dramatically in the past few years. Mobile search advertising is growing very rapidly and may offer lower conversion rates for our customers, which if not offset by lower costs, may make search engine marketing less attractive for our customers. In addition, the lower resolution, functionality, and memory associated with some alternative devices may alter consumers’ use of the Internet, including search engines and other websites where we publish advertisements on behalf of customers. For example, search queries are increasingly being undertaken via “apps” tailored to particular devices or niches, or via social media platforms, which could affect our ability to deliver advertising results to our clients if we are unable to effectively reach consumers via those apps. PAGE 16 Table Of Contents The impact of worldwide economic conditions, including the resulting effect on advertising budgets, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of advertising. In addition, as we increase our international footprint, we will become more sensitive to economic conditions outside of North America. We believe that the economic conditions remain challenging in North America and internationally, which have adversely affected our business. To the extent that economic difficulties continue, or worldwide economic conditions materially deteriorate, our existing and potential clients may no longer consider investment in our online marketing solutions a necessity, or may elect to reduce advertising budgets. Historically, economic downturns have resulted in overall reductions in advertising spending. In particular, online marketing advertising solutions may be viewed by some of our existing and potential clients as a lower priority and may be among the first expenditures reduced as a result of unfavorable economic conditions. These developments could cause us to respond by temporarily reducing hiring or taking other measures and could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Because we conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the United States but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates. Our foreign operations are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income (or loss). If the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, however, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in decreased revenue, operating expenses and net income (or loss). For example, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the foreign currencies in which we do business resulted in a reduction in 2013 revenue of $7.8 million, principally driven by a 7% reduction in the average value of the Australian dollar relative to the prior year. As exchange rates vary, sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. In addition, approximately 44% of our cash balances are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and the value of such holdings will increase or decrease along with the weakness or strength of the U.S. dollar, respectively. We plan to implement a hedging strategy in 2014 to try to reduce the effect of fluctuating currency rates on our business, but there can be no assurances that such a hedging strategy will accomplish our objectives or that it will not result in losses. If we fail to increase the number of our clients or retain existing clients, our revenue and our business will be harmed. Our ability to grow our business depends in large part on maintaining and expanding our client base. To do so, we must convince prospective clients of the benefits of our technology platform and existing clients of the continuing value of our products and services. As the online media options for SMBs proliferate and our clients become more familiar with such options, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining or expanding our client base. SMB marketing and advertising campaigns are often sporadic and difficult to predict, as they may be driven by seasonal promotions or business dynamics, evolving product and service offerings, available budgets and other factors. Some SMBs advertise only periodically, such as to promote sales or special offers. Because we need to address these business considerations of our clients, we do not require clients to enter into long-term obligations to purchase our products and services. Many cancel soon after completing their initial contract terms and some cancel early. We must continually add new clients both to replace clients who choose to cancel or not to renew their advertising campaigns and to grow our business beyond our current client base. A client’s decision to cancel or not to renew may be based on a number of factors, including dissatisfaction with our products and services, inability to continue operations and spending levels or because their campaigns were event-driven or otherwise intentionally limited in scope or duration. If our clients increasingly fail to fulfill their contracts or increasingly do not renew their advertising campaigns with us, or if we are unable to attract new clients in numbers greater than the number of clients that we lose, our client base will decrease and our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. PAGE 17 Table Of Contents A significant portion of our revenue is generated by our national brands, agencies and resellers. If we are not able to maintain relationships with one or more of them, our sales may suffer and our revenue may decline. We distribute our products and services through a separate sales force for national brands with operations in multiple local markets, as well as select third-party agencies and resellers. More generally, because national brands, agencies and resellers typically represent an aggregated group of SMB clients, if our relationship with one or more of these persons or companies were restricted or terminated, our sales would decrease and our revenue would be adversely affected, potentially materially. In addition, our strategy of distributing our products and services to our clients through our Direct Local channel and through our National Brands, Agencies and Resellers channel may result in distribution channel conflicts. Our Direct Local sales efforts may compete with our third-party agency and resellers and, to the extent different third-party agencies and resellers target the same clients, they may also come into conflict with each other. While we have certain policies in place to address these potential conflicts, there can be no assurance that these channel conflicts will not materially adversely affect our relationship with existing third-party agencies and resellers or adversely affect our ability to attract new third-party agencies and resellers. In the event that any of our relationships with existing third-party agencies and resellers are terminated or we are unable to attract new third-party agencies and resellers as a result of these distribution channel conflicts, our sales may suffer and our revenue may decline. If SMBs increasingly opt to perform advertising tasks on their own, their demand for our products and services would decrease, negatively affecting our revenue. Large Internet marketing providers such as Google, Yahoo! and Microsoft offer online advertising products and services through self-service platforms. As SMBs become more familiar with and experienced in interacting online, they may prefer to actively manage their own Internet presence and their demand for our products and services may decrease. We cannot predict the evolving experiences and preferences of SMBs, which may become more fully integrated into digitized modes of commerce and communication, and cannot assure you that we can develop our products and services in a manner that will suit their needs and expectations faster or more effectively than our competitors, or at all. If we are not able to do so, our results of operations would suffer. We expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenue and operating results could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results include: • unilateral actions taken by Google or other media providers; • seasonal variations in advertising budgets and media pricing; • seasonal variations in salespeople hiring; • the rate at which SMBs migrate their advertising spending online; • the timing and stage of product and technology development; • our ability to develop, introduce and manage SaaS products; • the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates, particularly the relative strength of the US Dollar to the currencies in the countries in which we do business and its impact on our consolidated revenues and results of operations; • the impact of worldwide economic conditions on our revenue and expenses; • the timing of and our ability to enter new markets and manage expansion in new markets; • our ability to appropriately set the price of non-media products; • our ability to accurately forecast revenue and appropriately plan our expenses; • the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; PAGE 18 Table Of Contents • the effectiveness of our internal controls; • our ability to effectively manage our growth; • our ability to successfully manage any future acquisitions of businesses, solutions or technologies; • interruptions in service and any related impact on our reputation; • the effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events; and • changes in government regulation affecting our business. As a result of these and other factors, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future operating performance. In addition, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors. Growth may place significant demands on our management and our infrastructure. We have experienced substantial growth in the size and complexity of our business. This growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. As our operations grow in size, scope and complexity, we will need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer an increasing number of clients enhanced solutions, features and functionality. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources in advance of an increase in the volume of business, with no assurance that the volume of business will increase. Continued growth could also strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our clients, develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls, enhance our reporting systems and procedures and recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel. Managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to maintain the necessary level of discipline and efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Our ability to deliver our products depends upon the quality, availability, policies and prices of certain third-party service providers. We rely on third parties to provide technology and services that are integrated into our solutions. Examples include our call tracking and recording services, and certain aspects of ReachEdge. In certain geographies, we rely on a single service provider for some of these services. In the event the provider were to terminate our relationship or stop providing these services, our ability to provide the affected products could be impaired. We may not be able to find an alternative provider in time to avoid a disruption of our services or at all, and we cannot be certain that such provider’s services would be compatible with our products without significant modifications or cost, if at all. Our proxy servers, which underlie key elements of our tracking services, require the use of various domains and IP address blocks. If domain registrars, website hosting companies or Internet service providers determined that our use of such domains and IP blocks were in violation of their terms of service or internet policies, such companies could elect to block our traffic. For example, several website hosting companies have blocked traffic from our reverse proxy servers for a group of our SMB clients, resulting in our inability to provide our full tracking services to those clients. Our ability to address or mitigate these risks may be limited. The failure of all or part of our tracking services could result in a loss of clients and associated revenue and could harm our results of operations. We rely on bandwidth providers, data centers and other third parties for key aspects of the process of providing online marketing solutions to our clients, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties could harm our ability to operate our business and damage our reputation. We rely on third-party vendors, including data center, software as a service, cloud computing Internet infrastructure and bandwidth providers. Any disruption in the services provided by these third-party providers or any failure of these third-party providers to handle current or higher volumes of use could significantly harm our business. Any financial or other difficulties our providers face may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which we cannot predict. We exercise little control over these third-party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience interruptions and delays in service and availability for such elements. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services could negatively impact our relationship with our clients and adversely affect our brand and our business and could expose us to liabilities to third parties. PAGE 19 Table Of Contents Client complaints or negative publicity about our customer service or other business practices could adversely affect our reputation and brand. Client complaints or negative publicity about our technology, personnel or customer service could severely diminish confidence in and the use of our products and services. Effective customer service requires significant personnel expense, and this expense, if not managed properly, could significantly impact our operating results. Moreover, failure to provide our clients with high-quality customer experiences for any reason could substantially harm our reputation and our brand and adversely affect our efforts to develop as a trusted provider of online marketing and reporting solutions for the SMB market. Rapid technological changes may render our online marketing and reporting solutions obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our solutions to our clients. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our technology platform. The Internet, access to the Internet and the online marketing and advertising industry are rapidly changing. Our competitors are constantly developing new products and services in online marketing and advertising. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in order to enhance our existing products and services and introduce new products and services that clients can easily and effectively use. If competitors introduce new solutions embodying new technologies, or if new industry practices emerge, our existing technology may become obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to: • enhance our existing solutions; • develop new solutions and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective clients; and • respond to technological advances and emerging industry practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. Developing our online marketing and reporting solutions and the underlying technology entail significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt our technology platform and network infrastructure to client requirements or emerging industry practices. If we face material delays in introducing new or enhanced solutions, our clients may forego the use of our solutions in favor of those of our competitors. Future acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our offerings and markets and grow our business in response to changing technologies, client demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses, solutions or technologies rather than through internal development. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully assimilate and integrate the business, technologies, solutions, personnel or operations of the company that we acquired, particularly if key personnel of an acquired company decide not to work for us. We may also inherit liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including violations of laws, rules and regulations, intellectual property disputes, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities. In addition, we may borrow to complete an acquisition, which would increase our costs, or issue equity securities, which would dilute our stockholders’ ownership and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Historically, we have primarily grown organically, rather than through acquisitions. As a result, we have somewhat limited experience in identifying and executing acquisition opportunities. Acquisitions may also involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions which could harm our operating results. We make strategic investments from time to time and if they are unsuccessful, it could harm our financial condition. We have made strategic investments in the past, such as the market development loan to OxataSMB, a franchisee, and may make additional similar or different strategic investments in the future. Such investments may not prove profitable or successful for us and may result in the partial or total loss of our invested capital. For example, the OxataSMB operations have not performed as contemplated, and as a result, at December 31, 2013, the Company recorded a $3.3 million impairment of the OxataSMB loan receivable and related interest and a $1.6 million provision for bad debt related to a trade receivable from OxataSMB. In addition, strategic investments, such as with OxataSMB, may involve future commitments to provide further capital and we cannot assure you any such further investments will be desirable if, and when made, or will prove profitable over the long term. PAGE 20 Table Of Contents We may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or unforeseen circumstances. If capital is not available to us, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. We may require additional capital to operate or expand our business. In addition, some of our product development initiatives may require substantial additional capital resources before they begin to generate material revenue. Additional funds may not be available when we need them, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we do not have funds available to enhance our solutions, maintain the competitiveness of our technology or pursue business opportunities, we may not be able to service our existing clients or acquire new clients, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events. For example, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, and our insurance coverage will likely be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our servers may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential intellectual property or client data. We may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in certain circumstances, such as natural disasters affecting the Los Angeles area, and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the Internet to conduct our business and provide high quality customer service, such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to run our business, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a client’s data, our service may be perceived as not being secure and clients may curtail or stop using our service. Our service involves the storage and transmission of clients’ proprietary information, such as credit card and bank account numbers, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and possible liability. Our payment services may be susceptible to credit card and other payment fraud schemes, including unauthorized use of credit cards, debit cards or bank account information, identity theft or merchant fraud. If our security measures are breached in the future as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our clients’ data, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and clients. We provide services to clients in regulated industries (such as healthcare, financial and legal) in the United States and internationally. Clients in these regulated industries often have additional country-specific statutory and customer-specific contractual requirements. If we are not able to meet these changing requirements we could face litigation and could lose customers in those industries. PAGE 21 Table Of Contents We are subject to a number of risks related to credit card payments we accept. If we fail to be in compliance with applicable credit card rules and regulations, we may incur additional fees, fines and ultimately, the revocation of the right to use the credit card company, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A majority of our clients’ campaigns were paid for using a credit card or debit card. For credit and debit card payments, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating expenses and adversely affect our net income. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. We believe we are compliant with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which incorporates Visa’s Cardholder Information Security Program, MasterCard’s Site Data Protection standard, and American Express' Data Security Operating Policy and Discover Information Security & Compliance (DISC) program. However, there is no guarantee that we will maintain such compliance or that compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment system. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our clients. A failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions would result in significantly higher credit card-related costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our revenue may be negatively affected if we are required to charge sales tax or other transaction taxes on all or a portion of our past and future sales to customers located in jurisdictions where we are currently not collecting and reporting tax. We have not historically collected, or had imposed upon us, sales or other transaction taxes related to the products and services we sell, except for certain corporate level taxes and transaction level taxes outside of the United States. However, sales of our new ReachEdge product are taxable in many state, local, and foreign jurisdictions, of which one or more may seek to impose additional sales or other transaction tax obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by any state, local jurisdiction or country in which we do business that we should be collecting sales or other transaction taxes on the sale of our products or services could result in substantial tax liabilities related to past sales, create increased administrative burdens or costs, discourage clients from purchasing products or services from us, decrease our ability to compete or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. The imposition of new laws requiring the collection of sales or other transaction taxes on the sale of our products or services (or the introduction of new products or services that are subject to existing transaction taxes) could create increased administrative burdens or costs, discourage clients from purchasing products or services from us, decrease our ability to compete or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. The intended tax benefits of our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements depend on the application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions and on how we operate our business. Our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements, including the manner in which we develop and use our intellectual property and the transfer pricing of our intercompany transactions, are intended to reduce our worldwide effective tax rate. The application of the tax laws of various jurisdictions, including the United States, to our international business activities is subject to interpretation and depends on our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology or intercompany arrangements, including our transfer pricing, or determine that the manner in which we operate our business does not achieve the intended tax consequences, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial position and results of operations. Our corporate structure includes legal entities located in jurisdictions with income tax rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. Our intercompany arrangements allocate income to such entities in accordance with arm’s-length principles and commensurate with functions performed, risks assumed and ownership of valuable corporate assets. We believe that income taxed in certain foreign jurisdictions at a lower rate relative to the U.S. statutory rate will have a beneficial impact on our worldwide effective tax rate. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. For example, our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in foreign currency exchange rates or by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations. As we operate in numerous taxing jurisdictions, the application of tax laws can be subject to diverging and sometimes conflicting interpretations by tax authorities of these jurisdictions. It is not uncommon for taxing authorities in different countries to have conflicting views, for instance, with respect to, among other things, the manner in which the arm’s length standard is applied for transfer pricing purposes, or with respect to the valuation of intellectual property. In addition, tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. In particular, there is uncertainty in relation to the U.S. tax legislation in terms of the future corporate tax rate but also in terms of the U.S. tax consequences of income derived from intellectual property related income earned overseas in low tax jurisdictions. PAGE 22 Table Of Contents Our existing corporate structure and intercompany arrangements have been implemented in a manner we believe is in compliance with current prevailing tax laws. However, the tax benefits which we intend to eventually derive could be undermined if we are unable to adapt the manner in which we operate our business and due to changing tax laws. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and operating results. Because our business is heavily dependent on our intellectual property, including our proprietary technology, the protection of our intellectual property rights is crucial to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, patent applications, copyrights and trademarks, as well as contractual restrictions, to safeguard our intellectual property. These afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our online marketing and reporting solutions, technology, software and functionality or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary. Moreover, policing our proprietary rights is difficult and may not always be effective. In particular, because we sell our solutions internationally, we may need to enforce our rights under the laws of countries that do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. Our proprietary technology is not currently protected by any issued patents, and policing our rights to such technology may be hindered if we are unable to obtain any patents. In addition, the type and extent of patent claims that may be issued to us in the future is uncertain, and any patents that are issued may not contain claims that permit us to stop competitors from using similar technology. In light of the costs of obtaining patent protection, at times we may choose not to protect certain innovations that later on prove to be highly important. To the extent that the various technologies underlying any patent applications are determined to be business methods, the law around these types of patents is rapidly developing, and pending changes may impact our ability to protect our technology and proprietary use thereof through patents. We have registered ReachLocal and other trademarks as trademarks in the United States and in certain other countries. Some of our trade names are not eligible to receive trademark protection. Also, trademark protection may not be available, or sought by us, in every country in which our technology and products are available online. Competitors may adopt service names similar to ours, or purchase our trademarks and confusingly similar terms as keywords in Internet search engine advertising programs, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to client confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of the term ReachLocal or our other trademarks. Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other governmental authorities and administrative bodies in the United States and abroad may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our patent rights, trade secrets and domain names and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could substantially harm our operating results. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases, we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. PAGE 23 Table Of Contents Assertions by third parties of infringement by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results. Companies in the Internet, technology and media industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently litigate or threaten litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Other parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. These types of litigations may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue, and therefore our own issued and pending patents, if any, may provide little or no deterrence. In addition, we have been and could in the future become involved in disputes over the use of keywords by our clients, to the extent such clients’ competitors allege the use of such keywords on our technology platform violates such competitors’ trademark rights. We cannot predict whether assertions of third-party intellectual property rights or claims arising from such assertions will substantially harm our business and operating results. If we are forced to defend against any infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we may face costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party’s patent or copyright rights; cease making, licensing or using solutions that are alleged to incorporate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to redesign our solutions; and enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Over time, we expect that we will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows or as our presence and visibility within the industry increases. We could lose clients if we or our media partners fail to detect click-through or other fraud on advertisements in a manner that is acceptable to our clients. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks or actions on our third-party publishers’ websites. We may lose clients, or in the future, we may have to refund revenue that our clients have paid to us and that was later attributed to, or suspected to be caused by, click-through fraud. Click-through fraud occurs when an individual clicks on an ad displayed on a website or an automated system is used to create such clicks with little to no intent of viewing the underlying content. If fraudulent clicks are not detected, the affected clients may become dissatisfied with our campaigns, which in turn may lead to loss of clients and the related revenue. Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and other matters. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, increased cost of operations, or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including user privacy, rights of publicity, data protection, content, intellectual property, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, taxation, and online payment services. Foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the United States. These U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. In addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations are often uncertain. These laws and regulations could have a significant impact on online advertising services depending on how these laws and regulations are interpreted and enforced. It is also clear that the laws and regulations are intending to regulate behavioral targeting, the availability of which could become highly limited are eliminated entirely. Our product suite does not rely heavily on the use of behavioral targeting, but we do offer a display remarketing product, which involves showing a consumer an ad for the website of a client that the consumer has previously visited. In addition, a number of proposals are pending before federal, state, and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies that could significantly affect our business. For example, a revision to the 1995 European Union Data Protection Directive is currently being considered by European legislative bodies that may include more stringent operational requirements for data processors and significant penalties for non-compliance. Similarly, there have been a number of recent legislative proposals in the United States, at both the federal and state level, that would impose new obligations in areas such as privacy, data protection and data breach notifications. Some of the proposed changes to U.S. and European law could require that we obtain prior consent before using cookies or other tracking technologies or provide a “do not track” mechanism in certain circumstances. These existing and proposed laws and regulations can be costly to comply with and can delay or impede the development of new products, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to claims or other remedies, including fines or demands that we modify or cease existing business practices. We process, store and use personal information and other data, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. We receive, store and process personal information and other user data, including credit card information for certain users. There are numerous federal, state and local laws around the world regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other user data, the scope of which are changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other rules. It is possible that these obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, our privacy-related obligations to users or other third parties, or our privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other user data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or negative publicity and could cause our clients to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Additionally, if third parties with whom we work, such as our publishers or our providers of telephony services, violate applicable laws or our policies, such violations may also put our users’ information at risk and could have an adverse effect on our business. PAGE 24 Table Of Contents Some of our services may utilize “open source” software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. Some of our services may utilize software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open source” licenses, including, but not limited to, the GNU General Public License and the GNU Lesser General Public License. Some of those licenses may require that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create using the open source software, that we provide notices with our products and that we license any modifications or derivative works under an open source license or rights of further use to third parties. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. Although we take steps to ensure that our software engineers properly isolate our proprietary software they design from open source software components, we may not control the product development efforts of our engineers and we cannot be certain that they have not inappropriately incorporated open source software into our proprietary technologies. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software were to obtain a judgment against us based on allegations that we had not complied with the terms of any applicable open source license, we could be subject to liability for copyright infringement damages and breach of contract. In addition, we could be enjoined from selling our services that contained the open source software and required to make the source code for the open source software available, to grant third parties certain rights of further use of our software or to remove the open source software from our services, which could disrupt our distribution and sale of some of our services. Government regulation of the Internet is evolving, and unfavorable changes could substantially harm our business and operating results. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth in use of the Internet and online services. The application of existing laws to the Internet and online services governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy has not yet been settled. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and operating results. Other laws and regulations that have been adopted, or may be adopted in the future, that may affect our business include those covering user privacy, data protection, spyware, “do not email” lists, access to high speed and broadband service, pricing, taxation, tariffs, patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, export of encryption technology, electronic contracting, click-fraud, acceptable content, search terms, lead generation, behavioral targeting, consumer protection, and quality of products and services. Any changes in regulations or laws that hinder growth of the Internet generally or that decrease the acceptance of the Internet as a communications, commercial and advertising medium could adversely affect our business. See also Part 1, Item 1A, “Risk Factors—Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and other matters. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, increased cost of operations, or otherwise harm our business.” Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. Shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in May 19, 2010 at a price of $13.00 per share, and our common stock has subsequently traded as high as $28.39 and as low as $6.05. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • our operating performance and the operating performance of similar companies; • the overall performance of the equity markets; PAGE 25 Table Of Contents • the number of shares of our common stock publicly owned and available for trading; • changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases; • threatened or actual litigation; • changes in laws or regulations relating to our solutions; • any major change in our board of directors or management; • publication of research reports about us or our industry or changes in recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; • large volumes of sales of our shares of common stock by existing stockholders; and • general political and economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Internet-related companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company’s securities. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management’s attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the recent distress in the financial markets has also resulted in extreme volatility in security prices. Future sales of shares of our common stock by stockholders could depress the price of our common stock. As of February 28, 2014, approximately 54% of our common stock is held by our directors, officers and entities affiliated with our directors, including approximately 44% beneficially owned by VantagePoint Capital Partners and approximately 9% beneficially owned by Rho Ventures. In addition, these percentages may increase as we repurchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our $47 million share repurchase program, of which approximately $10.7 million was available for repurchase as of February 28, 2014 (see Part II, Item 5, “Common Stock Repurchases”). Such shares have not been subject to lock-up agreements since November 2010. VantagePoint and Rho Ventures were our two primary venture capital investors and have owned their shares for a considerable length of time. If VantagePoint or Rho Ventures decides to exit its investments in us, it could negatively impact the price of our common stock. During August and November of 2012, Rho Ventures sold an aggregate of 575,000 shares, and during February of 2014, Rho Ventures sold 100,000 shares. A number of members of our management team have adopted 10b5-1 trading plans covering approximately 150,000 shares of common stock as of December 31, 2013. In addition, insiders may seek to sell shares without the adoption of trading plans. If there are substantial sales of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. In addition, as of December 31, 2013, approximately 6.7 million shares subject to outstanding options under our 2004 Stock Plan and our Amended and Restated 2008 Stock Incentive Plan are eligible for sale in the public market in the future, subject to certain legal and contractual limitations. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. PAGE 26 Table Of Contents Investment funds managed by VantagePoint Capital Partners own a substantial amount of our stock and have significant influence over our business. In the aggregate, insiders own a majority of our outstanding stock. As of February 28, 2014, VantagePoint Capital Partners, one of our early venture capital investors, beneficially owned approximately 44% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, VantagePoint has significant influence over the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors. VantagePoint’s significant ownership also could affect the market price of our common stock by, for example, delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Alan Salzman, the Chief Executive Officer of Vantage Point, serves as a member of our board of directors. As of February 28, 2014, our current directors and executive officers as a group beneficially owned approximately 54% of our outstanding common stock (including all shares issuable with respect to options held by such holders). Certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors, including, among other things: • a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; • no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; • the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; • the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of our board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; • a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; • the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of our board of directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the president (in absence of a Chief Executive Officer) or our board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; • the requirement for the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the voting stock, voting together as a single class, to amend the provisions of our certificate of incorporation relating to the issuance of preferred stock and management of our business or our bylaws, which may inhibit the ability of an acquiror from amending our certificate of incorporation or bylaws to facilitate a hostile acquisition; • the ability of our board of directors, by majority vote, to amend the bylaws, which may allow our board of directors to take additional actions to prevent a hostile acquisition and inhibit the ability of an acquiror from amending the bylaws to facilitate a hostile acquisition; and • advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. PAGE 27 Table Of Contents We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, our board of directors has approved the transaction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 