Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and the other information set forth elsewhere in this Current Report. If any of these risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. As a result, the trading price of our common stock could decline, perhaps significantly. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Loss of significant or major customers could hurt our business by reducing our revenues and profitability. Our success depends substantially upon retaining our major clients. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain long-term relationships or secure renewals of short-term relationships with our significant clients in the future. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, we had one major customer: Beijing Xingwang Shidai Tech & Trading Co., Ltd., which was responsible for over 86.72% of our revenues. We have developed and enhanced our relationship and positioned ourselves for long-term cooperation with them by taking the following steps: · assisting the company in coordinating its sales channels and carriers; · ensuring that the company received high performance products at the specified prices; and · responding to feedback from the company’s customers regarding our products by adjusting our product lines to better suit their customers’ needs. 8 Competition from providers of similar products and services could materially adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. The industry in which we compete is highly competitive, fragmented, and driven by consumer preferences for quickly-evolving technologies. Our competitors include both international brands like Nokia, Motorola, and Samsung, and domestic brands like Lenovo, Bird, Amoi, Changhong and Gionee, among others. We believe competitors in the cell phone industry compete on the following main factors: effective marketing and sales, brand recognition, product quality, product placement and availability, niche marketing and segmentation. We expect competition to intensify in the future due to the increased number of competitors and other factors discussed below. Other companies, foreign and/or domestic, may also enter the PRC market with better products or services, greater financial and human resources and/or greater brand recognition than our Company. Competitors will also continue to improve and expand their current product lines and introduce new products to market. We can make no assurances that we will be able to compete effectively or that we will have the resources needed for the technical innovation, business development, advertising and marketing that are necessary to compete effectively and build awareness of our brand. Staying competitive will require substantial human and capital resources from the Company. We may also have to continue to rely on strategic partnerships for critical branding and relationship leverage; there is no guarantee these partnerships will prove sufficient. We cannot assure that the Company will have enough resources to make these investments or that we will be able to achieve the technological advances necessary to remain competitive. Increased competition may result in price reductions, lower gross margins, and/or loss of market share. Failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, operating results and financial condition. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business. Our business may be severely disrupted if we lose the services of our key executives or employees or fail to add new senior and mid-level managers to our management team. Our future success depends heavily on the continued service of our key executives. Our future success is also dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified senior and middle managers to our management team. If one or more of our current or future key executives or employees is unwilling or unable to continue in their present positions, it may be difficult to replace them, and our business may be severely disrupted. In addition, if any of our key executives or employees joins one of our competitors or forms a competing company, we could lose customers and/or suppliers and incur additional expenses to recruit and train replacement personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us. We also rely on a number of key technology staff to operate our Company. Given the competitive nature of our industry, the risk of key technology staff leaving our Company is fairly high and could disrupt our operations. We rely on a third party production center. We use a third party production center to manufacture our products. Should we be required to use a different production center, our costs could be negatively affected. 9 The acquisition of a manufacturing facility is costly and such acquisition may not enhance our financial condition. The process of identifying and consummating the acquisition of our own manufacturing facility could require substantial amounts of cash, which may require issuing new securities, thereby diluting the interests of existing stockholders. Acquiring a manufacturing facility could also expose the Company to potential liabilities, some of which may not be disclosed by the seller. In addition, even if we are successful in acquiring a manufacturing facility, there are no assurances that owning it will enhance our future financial condition. And, to the extent that the business acquired does not remain competitive, some or all of the goodwill related to that acquisition could be charged against our future earnings, if any. Any acquisitions we undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and harm our operating results. We plan to review opportunities to buy other businesses or technologies that would compliment our current products, expand the breadth of our markets and sales channels, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. If we make any future acquisitions, we may issue stock, thereby diluting existing stockholders’ percentage of ownership in the Company; incur substantial debt; or assume contingent liabilities. Our experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies is limited. Potential acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including: · problems integrating the purchased operations, technologies, products, or services with our own; · unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; · diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; · potential loss of key employees and customers of purchased organizations; · increased costs and efforts required for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; and · risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of assets acquired in future acquisitions. Our acquisition strategy entails reviewing and potentially reorganizing acquired business operations, corporate infrastructure and systems, and financial controls. Unforeseen expenses, difficulties, and delays frequently encountered in connection with rapid expansion through acquisitions could inhibit our growth and negatively impact our profitability. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to complete the acquisitions of candidates that we identify. In addition, we may encounter difficulties in integrating the operations of acquired businesses with our own operations or managing acquired businesses profitably without substantial costs, delays, or other operational or financial problems. 10 Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment may strain our limited resources. We will need to increase investment in our technological infrastructure, facilities, and other areas of operations, especially in the area of product development. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our products and services and, in turn, our customer support, could deteriorate and cause our business may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: · continue to develop technologies that attract PRC consumers; · continue to train, motivate, and retain our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees, including our senior managers, most of whom have been with the Company for less than three years; · develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls, and · maintain adequate controls and procedures to ensure that our periodic public disclosures under applicable laws, including U.S. securities laws, are complete and accurate. Unless we are able to take advantage of technological developments on a timely basis, we may experience a decline in a demand for our services or may be unable to implement our business strategy. Our industry is experiencing rapid change as new technologies are developed that offer consumers an ever-expanding number of ways to meet their communications needs. In order to grow and remain competitive, we will need to adapt to future changes in technology, enhance our existing products, and introduce new products that address our customers’ changing demands. If we are unable to continue developing products that compare favorably to the products of our competitors in terms of technology either on a timely basis and/or at acceptable costs, we could lose customers to our competitors. Technological advances including the introduction of new products, new designs, or new manufacturing techniques could render our inventory obsolete or shift demand into areas in which we are not currently engaged. If we fail to adapt to these types of changing conditions in a timely and efficient manner, our revenues and profits would likely decline. To remain competitive, we must continue to incur significant expenses for product development, equipment, and facilities, and other capital investments. These costs may increase, resulting in greater fixed costs and operating expenses. As a result, we could be required to expend substantial funds for and commit significant resources to the following: research and development required to update existing and potential products; additional engineering and other technical personnel; advanced design, production and test equipment; manufacturing services that meet changing customer needs; and technological changes in manufacturing processes. Our future operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to continue to provide new products that compare favorably to those of our competitors in terms of time to market, cost, performance, design, and quality of manufacturing. Should our production costs increase, failure to increase our net sales in a way sufficient to offset these cost increases would reduce our profitability. 11 Our research and development efforts may not lead to successful development of commercially viable or acceptable products, which could cause a decline in customer use of our products. The markets in which we compete are characterized by: · rapidly changing technology; · evolving industry standards and transmission protocols; · frequent improvements in products and services; and · fierce competition from well-funded and technologically advanced companies. To succeed, we must continually improve our current products and develop and introduce new or enhanced products that adequately address the requirements of our customers and are competitive in terms of functionality, performance, quality, and price. We are currently developing new 3G products, however, our research and development efforts may not lead to any new or enhanced products or generate sufficient market share to justify commercialization. 3G is a new and evolving technology and we may not be able to recoup our research and development costs and expenses or may not be able to serve our customers’ 3G needs, leading customers to purchase competitors’ products instead of our own. Changes in industry standards and technologies, customer preferences and government regulation could limit our ability to sell our products. The mobile phone market is characterized by changing consumer demands for cellular telephone functions and applications, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, intense competition, evolving industry standards, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. These factors require us to continuously develop new products and enhance our existing products to stay competitive. In order to encourage widespread market adoption of 2G, 2.5G, 2.75G and 3G technologies, efforts have been made to develop industry standards, and we have designed our products to comply with these standards. Changes in industry standards, or the development of new industry standards, may make our existing products obsolete or negate the cost advantages we believe we have in our products. Our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows could be adversely affected by declining demand for our existing products; the introduction of products and technologies by our competitors that serve as replacements, substitutes, or improvements over our existing products; technological innovations or new standards that our existing products do not address; or an inability to release enhanced versions of our existing products on a timely basis. We have begun to offer products based on the 3G standard promoted by the PRC government, and are focusing a significant portion of our product design and sales and marketing efforts on products that comply with this standard. We also are devoting significant resources to the development of solutions that will support either the 2.5G or 2.75G wireless standards. If the wireless standards for which we are developing products are not widely adopted by the market, we may not be able to sell these 2.5G and 2.75G-oriented products and our revenue could decline. Because it is not practicable to develop products that comply with all of the current standards and standards that may be adopted in the future, our ability to compete effectively will depend on our success at selecting the industry standards that will be widely adopted by the market and designing our products to support those standards. We may be required to devote significant expenses to redesigning our products in order to address relevant standards. We may not have the financial resources to fund future innovations. If our products do not meet relevant industry standards that are widely adopted for a significant period of time, our revenue would decline, adversely affecting our operating results, and future prospects. 12 If the PRC’s wireless communication sector does not maintain its current pace of growth, or the PRC government does not issue the Company a 3G license in the near future, the profitability and future prospects of our business and our liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends on the continued growth of the PRC wireless communication industry. A slowdown in the development of the wireless communication industry in the PRC or reduction in our customers’ expenditures on mobile phone products and services may reduce market demand for our products and services. Alternatively, if the PRC government or other relevant regulatory authorities fail to allow construction of new wireless communication networks, or decide to terminate, delay or suspend construction or extension of new or existing wireless communication networks, the profitability and future prospects for our business could be materially and adversely affected. The third generation wireless communication, or 3G, network deployment will require significant capital investment by PRC telecommunication operators, including investments in wireless coverage products and services, RF parts and components and wireless communication systems. Therefore, we believe that issuance of 3G licenses will in general have a positive impact on the growth of our business. Until we receive our 3G license from the PRC government, the expected return on our investments in 3G technology is uncertain. Continued delay in the issuance of 3G licenses will negatively impact our business growth and liquidity. Our ability to generate revenues could suffer if the PRC market for cellular phones does not develop as anticipated. The market for cellular phones in the PRC has evolved rapidly over the last four years with the introduction of new products, development of consumer preferences, market entry by new competitors, and adaptation of strategies by existing competitors. We expect each of these trends to continue, and we must continue to adapt our strategy to successfully compete in this market. It is extremely difficult to accurately predict consumer acceptance of and demand for both existing and potential technologies and services; neither can we know what the future size, composition, or growth of this market will be. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and we may be exposed to infringement claims by third parties. We rely on the restrictions on disclosure contained in our business contracts to protect our intellectual property rights. Monitoring unauthorized use of our information services is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain that the steps we take will effectively prevent misappropriation of our technology and content. In the future, our management may decide to apply for copyright, trademark or trade secret protection if management determines that such protection would be beneficial and cost-effective for the Company. 13 From time to time, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. In addition, third parties may initiate litigation against us for alleged infringement of their proprietary rights. In the event of a successful infringement claim and our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or content or to obtain a license for the infringed or similar technology or content on a timely basis, our business could suffer. Moreover, if this situation were to arise, even if we were able to license the infringed or similar technology or content, license fees we would have to pay to licensors could be substantial or even economically unfeasible. Our products may be subject to counterfeiting and/or imitation, which could harm our business and our competitive position. We cannot guarantee that counterfeiting or imitation of our products will not occur in the future or, if it does occur, that we will be able to detect it and deal with it effectively. Any counterfeiting or imitation could negatively impact our corporate and brand image. In addition, counterfeit or imitation products could result in a reduction in our market share, a loss in revenue, or an increase in our administrative expenses due to costs associated with detection or prosecution. We have limited business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in the PRC is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in the PRC offer limited business insurance products, and do not, to our knowledge, offer business liability insurance. As a result, we do not have any business liability insurance coverage for our operations. Therefore, any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster could result in substantial costs and diversion of Company resources. Product defects or the failure of our products to meet specifications could cause us to lose customers and revenue or to incur unexpected expenses. If our products do not meet our customers’ needs, our customer relationships may suffer. Also, our products may contain defects or fail to meet product specifications. Any failure or poor performance of our products could result in: · delayed market acceptance of our products; · delayed product shipments; · unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to replace defective products or identify and correct the source of errors; · damage to our reputation and our customer relationships; · delayed recognition of sales or reduced sales; and · product liability claims or other claims for damages that may be caused by any product defects or performance failures. 14 If the limited warranty provisions in our contracts are unenforceable in a particular jurisdiction or if we are exposed to product liability claims that are not covered by insurance, a claim could harm our business. We may have difficulty collecting our accounts receivable. During the normal course of business, we extend unsecured credit to our customers. Typical credit terms require payment to be made within 90 days of the invoice date. We do not require collateral from our customers. We regularly evaluate and monitor the creditworthiness of each customer on a case-by-case basis. We include any account balances that are determined to be uncollectible in our allowance for doubtful accounts. After all attempts to collect a receivable have failed, the receivable is written off against the allowance. Based on the information available to management, the Company believes that its allowances for doubtful accounts as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 were adequate. However, actual write-offs may exceed the recorded allowances. We currently offer and intend to offer open account terms to certain of our customers, which may subject us to credit risks, particularly in the event that any receivables represent sales to a limited number of customers or are concentrated in particular geographic markets. Collection of our accounts receivable and our ability to accelerate our collection cycle through the sale of accounts receivable is affected by several factors, including, but not limited to: · our credit granting policies, · contractual provisions, · our customers’ and our overall credit rating as determined by various credit rating agencies, · industry and economic conditions, and · our recent operating results and our and our customers’ financial position and cash flows. Adverse changes in any of these factors, certain of which may not be wholly in our control, could create delays in collecting or an inability to collect our accounts receivable which could impair our cash flows and our financial position and cause a reduction in our results of operations. 15 Our financial results may be affected by mandated changes in accounting and financial reporting. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These principles are subject to interpretation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies may have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. The cyclical nature of the aluminum industry causes variability in our production costs and cash flows. Our costs of production depend on the market for primary aluminum, which is a highly cyclical commodity with prices that are affected by global supply and demand as well as other conditions. Historically, aluminum prices have been volatile and we expect such volatility to continue. These prices are driven, in part, by global demand for aluminum arising from favorable global economic conditions and strong demand in the PRC. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN THE PRC There are substantial risks associated with doing business in the PRC; these risks are discussed below: A downturn in the PRC economy may slow down our growth and profitability. Growth of the PRC economy has been uneven across geographic regions and economic sectors. There can be no assurance that growth of the PRC economy will be steady or that an economic downturn will not have a negative effect on our business because of a decrease in expenditures for wireless services. More specifically, increased penetration of wireless services in the less economically developed central and western provinces of the PRC will depend on those provinces achieving certain income levels so that cellular phones and related services become affordable to a more significant portion of the population living in these areas. Government regulation of the telecommunications industry may become more complex. Government regulation of the telecommunications industry is highly complex. New regulations could increase our costs of doing business and prevent us from efficiently delivering our services. These regulations may stop or slow down the expansion of our user base and limit access to our services. Because we depend on governmental agencies for a portion of our revenue, our inability to win or renew government contracts could harm our operations and reduce our profits. Our inability to win or renew PRC government contracts could harm our operations and reduce our profits. PRC government contracts are typically awarded through a regulated procurement process. Some PRC government contracts are awarded to multiple competitors, causing increases in overall competition as well as pricing pressure. The competition and pricing pressure, may, in turn, require us to make sustained post-award efforts to reduce costs in order to realize revenues under these contracts. If we are not successful in reducing the costs we anticipate, our ability to profit on these contracts will be negatively impacted. An additional potential risk is that contracts with the PRC government can generally be terminated or modified at the government’s convenience. 16 We rely on sales to the Chinese government and a significant decline in overall government expenditures or a delay in the payment of our invoices by the government could have a negative impact on our future operating results. We believe that some of the success and growth of our business will continue to depend on our ability to win government contracts. Many of our government customers are subject to budgetary constraints and our continued performance under these contracts, or award of additional contracts from these agencies, could be jeopardized by spending reductions or budget cutbacks at these agencies. Our operating results may also be negatively impacted by other developments that affect these government programs generally, including the following: · adoption of new laws or regulations relating to government contracting or changes to existing laws or regulations; · delays or changes in the government appropriations process; and · delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. The uncertain legal environment in the PRC could limit the legal protections available to us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes where, unlike in common law systems, legal cases have little value as precedents for future disputes. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our arrangements with customers in the event of the imposition of statutory liens, death of the principal parties to contracts, bankruptcy or criminal proceedings. In the late 1970s, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to enterprises in the PRC that are funded by foreign investors. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent are still evolving rapidly, meaning that their interpretation and enforcement involves a significant amount of uncertainty. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as required business licenses. 17 Any recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or another widespread public health problem, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. A renewed outbreak of SARS or another widespread public health problem in the PRC, where all of our revenue is derived, and in Beijing where our operations are headquartered, could have a negative effect on our operations. Our operations may be impacted by a number of health-related factors, including the following: · quarantines or closures of some of our offices that would severely disrupt our operations, · the sickness or death of our key officers and employees, and · a general slowdown in the PRC economy. Any of the foregoing events or other unforeseen consequences of public health problems could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Changes in the PRC’s political and economic policies could harm our business. The economy of PRC has historically been a planned economy subject to governmental plans and quotas and has, in certain aspects, been transitioning to a more market-oriented economy. Although we believe that the economic reform and the macroeconomic measures adopted by the PRC government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the PRC, we cannot predict the future direction of these economic reforms or the effects these measures may have on our business, financial position or results of operations. In addition, the PRC economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD. These differences include: · economic structure; · level of government involvement in the economy; · level of development; · level of capital reinvestment; · control of foreign exchange; · methods of allocating resources; and · balance of payments position. As a result of these differences, our business may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the PRC economy was more similar to that of an OECD member country. As the PRC economy is transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources by controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on our business, especially if such measures create an unfriendly environment for businesses in the technology sector of the economy. 18 Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. Because almost all of our future revenues may be in the form of Renminbi (“RMB”), any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in RMB to fund any future business activities outside the PRC or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the PRC government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the RMB for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies, after providing valid commercial documents, at those banks authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of RMB for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in the PRC, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. We cannot be certain that the PRC regulatory authorities will not impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB, especially with respect to foreign exchange transactions. Because our revenues are generated in RMB and our results are reported in U.S. dollars, devaluation of the RMB could negatively impact our results of operations. The value of RMB is subject to changes in the PRC’s governmental policies and to international economic and political developments. In January, 1994, the PRC government implemented a unitary managed floating rate system. Under this system, the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, began publishing a daily base exchange rate with reference primarily to the supply and demand of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies in the market during the previous day. Authorized banks and financial institutions are allowed to quote buy and sell rates for RMB within a specified band around the central bank’s daily exchange rate. On July 21, 2005, PBOC announced an adjustment of the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar to RMB from 1:8.27 to 1:8.11 and modified the system by which the exchange rates are determined. This modification has resulted in an approximate 7.3% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar from July 21, 2005 to May 2, 2007. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in further fluctuations of the exchange rate of RMB against the U.S. dollar, including possible devaluations. As all of our net revenues are recorded in RMB, any future devaluation of RMB against the U.S. dollar could negatively impact our results of operations. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for our operational needs and should the RMB appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Conversely, if we decide to convert our RMB into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our ordinary shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in the PRC would be reduced. 19 Inflation in the PRC could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the PRC economy has experienced rapid growth, such growth has been uneven among various sectors of the economy and in different geographical areas of the country. Rapid economic growth can lead to growth in the money supply and rising inflation. During the past decade, the rate of inflation in the PRC has been as high as approximately 20% and the PRC has experienced deflation as low as approximately minus 2%. If prices for our products and services rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in the costs of supplies such as raw materials, it may have an adverse effect on our profitability. In order to control inflation in the past, the PRC government has imposed controls on bank credits, limits on loans for fixed assets and restrictions on state bank lending. The implementation of such policies may impede economic growth. In October 2004, the People’s Bank of China, the PRC’s central bank, raised interest rates for the first time in nearly a decade and indicated in a statement that the measure was prompted by inflationary concerns in the PRC economy. In April 2006, the People’s Bank of China raised the interest rate again. Repeated rises in interest rates by the central bank would likely slow economic activity in the PRC which could, in turn, materially increase our costs and also reduce demand for our products and services. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In addition, we are required to maintain records that accurately and fairly represent our transactions and have an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Foreign companies, including some that may compete with us, are not subject to these prohibitions, and therefore may have a competitive advantage over us. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC, particularly in our industry since it deals with contracts from the Chinese Government, and our executive officers and employees have not been subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prior to the completion of the Exchange Agreement (defined herein). If our competitors engage in these practices they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. We can make no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price for our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, 20 · announcements of new products and services by us or our competitors, · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other companies providing similar products and services, · announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, · additions or departures of key personnel, · potential litigation, or · conditions in the cellular phone market. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Stockholders could experience substantial dilution. We may issue additional shares of our capital stock to raise additional cash for working capital. If we issue additional shares of our capital stock, our stockholders will experience dilution in their respective percentage ownership in the Company. We have no present intention to pay dividends. We have never paid dividends or made other cash distributions on our common stock, and do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain future earnings, if any, for working capital and to finance current operations and expansion of our business. A large portion of our common stock is controlled by a small number of stockholders. 50.41% or 15,000,000 shares of our common stock are held by three stockholders, including 30.25% held by our executive officers and directors as a group. As a result, these stockholders are able to control the outcome of stockholder votes on various matters, including the election of directors and extraordinary corporate transactions including business combinations. In addition, the occurrence of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that these sales could occur, may affect our stock price and could impair our ability to obtain capital through an offering of equity securities. Furthermore, the current ratios of ownership of our common stock reduce the public float and liquidity of our common stock which can in turn affect the market price of our common stock. 21 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 