ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing our company. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to our Business Our success is dependent on the success of our lead product candidate, TRU-015, and we cannot be certain that it will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. Our lead product candidate, TRU-015, is currently being evaluated in Phase IIa and Phase IIb clinical trials for the treatment of RA and will require the successful completion of this and other planned Phase II and Phase III clinical trials before we are able to submit an NDA to the FDA for approval. This process can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. In December 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Wyeth pursuant to which Wyeth is responsible for the regulatory approval process and any subsequent commercialization of TRU-015. Wyeth may not advance the development and commercialization of TRU-015 as quickly as we would like. Clinical trials involving the number of sites and patients required for FDA approval of TRU-015 may not be successfully completed. If these clinical trials fail to demonstrate that TRU-015 is safe and effective, it will not receive regulatory approval. Even if TRU-015 receives regulatory approval, it may never be successfully commercialized. If TRU-015 does not receive regulatory approval or is not successfully commercialized, we may not be able to generate revenue, become profitable or continue our operations. We are a biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history, have not generated revenue from product sales and face many risks inherent in our business. If we do not overcome these risks, our business will not succeed. Biopharmaceutical product development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of risk. We commenced operations in March 1999, and since that time we have been engaged in research and development activities in connection with our SMIPtm custom drug assembly technology and our product candidates. We have never generated any revenue from product sales. We are seeking to design, develop and commercialize new products with superior efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety. As such, we are subject to all the risks described in this prospectus incident to the creation of new biological products and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown factors. You also should consider that we will need to: • obtain sufficient capital to support our efforts to develop our technology and create a pipeline of product candidates; and • complete and continue to enhance the characteristics and development of our product candidates. 21 Table of Contents We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We have been engaged in designing and developing compounds and product candidates since 1999 and have not generated any product revenue to date. We had net losses of $3.9 million, $18.9 million and $14.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $43.6 million. Since inception, we have incurred $63.9 million of research and development expenses. We expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase as we continue to design and develop compounds and product candidates. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We are uncertain when or if we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Failure to become and remain profitable would adversely affect the price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. In addition, our net operating loss carry forwards and credits may be substantially exhausted as a result of the payments we received from Wyeth in January 2006 pursuant to our collaboration agreement, and any remaining net operating loss carry forwards and credits may be subject to an annual limitation due to the “change in ownership” provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and similar state law provisions. There is no assurance that we will be granted regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. The clinical trials of our product candidates are, and the manufacturing and marketing of our products will be, subject to extensive and rigorous review and regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States and in other countries where we intend to test and market our product candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any product candidate, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in each target indication. This process can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources and may include post-marketing studies and surveillance. To date, we have not successfully completed any Phase II or Phase III clinical trials. We are currently testing our lead product candidate, TRU-015, in an ongoing fully-enrolled Phase IIa clinical trial for the treatment of RA, and in September 2006, we initiated a Phase IIb clinical trial in the same indication. All of our other product candidates remain in the discovery and preclinical testing stages. The results from preclinical testing and clinical trials that we have completed may not be predictive of results in future preclinical tests and clinical trials, and there can be no assurance that we will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. There can be no assurance that regulatory approval will be obtained for any of our product candidates. If our product candidates are not shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, the resulting delays in developing other product candidates and conducting related preclinical testing and clinical trials, as well as the potential need for additional financing, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon our collaborative relationship with Wyeth to develop, manufacture and commercialize our lead product candidate, TRU-015, and other selected product candidates. In December 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Wyeth for the development and worldwide commercialization of our lead product candidate, TRU-015, and other therapeutics directed to CD20, an antigen that is a validated clinical target that is present on B cells. We are also collaborating with Wyeth on the development and worldwide commercialization of other SMIPtm product candidates directed to targets other than CD20 and established pursuant to the agreement. In addition, we have the option to co-promote with Wyeth, on customary terms to be agreed, CD20-directed therapies in the United States for niche indications. We retain the right to develop and commercialize, on our own or with others, SMIPtm product candidates directed to targets not included within the agreement, including CD37 and other specified targets. Although Wyeth is responsible for the development, manufacture and commercialization of product candidates directed to collaboration targets, including CD20, and the costs associated with such development, manufacture and commercialization, we are obligated to complete the ongoing Phase IIa study in RA, to conduct the recently initiated Phase IIb study in RA and to conduct niche indication registration studies for CD20-directed 22 Table of Contents therapies. Any future payments, including royalties to us, will depend on the extent to which we and Wyeth advance product candidates through development and commercialization. With respect to control over decisions and responsibilities, the collaboration agreement provides for a research committee and a development committee, consisting of representatives of Wyeth and us. Ultimate decision-making authority as to most matters within the collaboration, however, is vested in Wyeth. At any time after December 22, 2007, Wyeth may terminate the collaboration relationship in whole or in part without cause by giving 90 days written notice to us. Wyeth also has the right to terminate the agreement on a target-by-target basis, upon 60 days written notice, if any safety or regulatory issue arises that would have a material adverse effect on Wyeth’s ability to develop, manufacture or commercialize the product candidate directed to that target. Our ability to receive any significant revenue from our product candidates covered by the collaboration agreement is dependent on the efforts of Wyeth. We cannot assure you that Wyeth will fulfill its obligations under this agreement or will develop and commercialize our product candidates as quickly as we would like. If Wyeth fails to fulfill its obligations under this agreement, we would need to obtain the capital necessary to fund the development and commercialization of our product candidates or enter into alternative arrangements with a third party. We could also become involved in disputes with Wyeth, which could lead to delays in or termination of our development and commercialization programs and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. If Wyeth terminates or breaches its agreement with us, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, the chances of successfully developing or commercializing our product candidates would be materially and adversely affected. Our relationship with Wyeth may have a negative effect on our ability to enter into relationships with third parties. In December 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Wyeth for the development and worldwide commercialization of our lead product candidate, TRU-015, and other therapeutics directed to CD20, an antigen that is a validated clinical target that is present on B cells. We are also collaborating with Wyeth on the development and commercialization of other SMIPtm product candidates directed to targets other than CD20 established pursuant to our agreement. Companies other than Wyeth that may be interested in developing products with us are likely to be less inclined to do so because of our relationship with Wyeth, or because of the perception that development programs that Wyeth does not participate in are less promising programs. If our ability to work with present or future strategic partners or collaborators is adversely affected as a result of our collaboration agreement with Wyeth, our business prospects may be limited and our financial condition may be adversely affected. Any failure or delay in commencing or completing clinical trials for product candidates could severely harm our business. Each of our product candidates must undergo extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials as a condition to regulatory approval. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive and take many years to complete. To date we have not completed Phase II or Phase III clinical trials of any product candidate. The commencement and completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed by many factors, including: • our or our collaborators’ ability to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • our or our collaborators’ ability to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in preclinical studies and clinical trials; • delays in patient enrollment and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; • poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues or side effects; 23 Table of Contents • governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; and • varying interpretation of data by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies. It is possible that none of our product candidates will complete clinical trials in any of the markets in which we or our collaborators intend to sell those product candidates. Accordingly, we or our collaborators may not receive the regulatory approvals necessary to market our product candidates. Any failure or delay in commencing or completing clinical trials or obtaining regulatory approvals for product candidates would prevent or delay their commercialization and severely harm our business and financial condition. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform as contractually required or otherwise expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We do not currently have the ability to conduct clinical trials, and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct our clinical trials. We have, in the ordinary course of business, entered into agreements with these third parties. Nonetheless, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products. Any product candidate for which we receive regulatory approval, together with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, and advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued review and regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Even if regulatory approval of a product candidate is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product candidate may be marketed or on the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product candidate. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or their manufacture, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: • restrictions on the products or manufacturing processes; • withdrawal of the products from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recalls; • fines; • suspension of regulatory approvals; • product seizures; or • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we are slow or otherwise unable to adapt to changes in existing regulatory requirements, we may lose marketing approval for any approved products. 24 Table of Contents Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products internationally. We intend to have our product candidates marketed outside the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. To date, we have not filed for marketing approval for any of our product candidates and may not receive the approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates in any market. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing and data review. The time required to obtain foreign regulatory approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other foreign countries or by the FDA. However, a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in other jurisdictions, including approval by the FDA. The failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions could harm our business. Our product candidates may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we receive regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, the commercial success of these product candidates will depend on, among other things, their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community as a therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to competing products and treatments. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product that we may develop and commercialize will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; • availability, relative cost and relative efficacy of alternative and competing treatments; • the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution strategy; • publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. If our product candidates do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payors and other members of the medical community, our business, financial condition and results of operation would be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively or operate profitably. Our success is dependent in part on obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our patents and other proprietary rights and will depend in large part on our ability to: • obtain patent and other proprietary protection for our technology, processes and product candidates; • defend patents once issued; • preserve trade secrets; and • operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. 25 Table of Contents We currently have two issued patents, one in the U.S. and one in China. In addition, we have 24 U.S. and 79 foreign pending patent applications, although there is no guarantee that any of these patent applications will issue or grant. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by any of our patents, if issued, or our pending patent applications; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents or, if issued, these patents may not be sufficient to protect our technology or provide us with a basis for commercially-viable products and may not provide us with any competitive advantages; • if our pending applications issue as patents, they may be challenged by third parties as not infringed, invalid or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws; • if issued, the patents under which we hold rights may not be valid or enforceable; or • we may develop additional proprietary technologies that are not patentable and which may not be adequately protected through trade secrets, if for example a competitor were to independently develop duplicative, similar or alternative technologies. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms is highly uncertain and involves many complex legal and technical issues. There is no clear policy involving the breadth of claims allowed in patents or the degree of protection afforded under patents. Although we believe our potential rights under patent applications provide a competitive advantage, we cannot assure you that patent applications owned by or licensed to us will result in patents being issued, or that, if issued, the patents will give us an advantage over competitors with similar technology, nor can we assure you that we can obtain, maintain and enforce all ownership and other proprietary rights necessary to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Even if any or all of our patent applications issue as patents, others may challenge the validity, inventorship, ownership, enforceability or scope of our patents or other technology used in or otherwise necessary for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. Further, we cannot assure you that any such challenge would not be successful. Moreover, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents to prevent infringement or to otherwise protect our proprietary rights can be substantial. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use the challenged technologies without payment to us. We cannot assure you that our patents, if issued, will not be infringed or successfully avoided through design innovation. Intellectual property lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources, even if the outcome were successful. In addition, there is a risk that a court would decide that our patents, if issued, are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of a patent were upheld, a court would refuse to stop the other party from using the inventions, including on the ground that its activities do not infringe that patent. If any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely effected. In addition to the intellectual property and other rights described above, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, trademarks and confidential information, particularly when we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or available. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect and we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our unpatented technology, trade secrets and confidential information. We require each of our employees, consultants and advisors to execute a confidentiality and invention assignment agreement at the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship with us. We cannot assure you, however, that these agreements will provide effective protection of our confidential information or, in the event of unauthorized use of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of third parties, provide adequate or effective remedies or protection. 26 Table of Contents If our SMIPtm technology or our product candidates, including TRU-015, conflict with the rights of others, we may not be able to manufacture or market our product candidates, which could have a material and adverse effect on us and on our collaboration agreement with Wyeth. Our commercial success will depend in part on not infringing the patents or violating the proprietary rights of third parties. We are aware of intellectual property, including European patent No. EP-B-1176981, in which Genentech has an ownership interest with claims directed to the second medical use of an anti-CD20 antibody for treatment of RA. On August 8, 2006 we filed an opposition to this patent raising objections as to its validity. In September 2006, we filed a copy of our opposition filing as an exhibit to the registration statement we filed with the SEC in connection with our initial public offering. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in opposing the grant of Genentech’s patent. Subsequent to the submission of our opposition, other parties filed oppositions to the Genentech patent prior to August 30, 2006, including MedImmune, Inc., Genmab A/S, Centocor, Inc. Glaxo Group Limited, Serono S.A. and Wyeth. We believe these additional opposition filings will not have a negative effect on our opposition. Final resolution of the opposition proceedings will likely take a number of years. In the meantime, the existence of opposition proceedings does not preclude Genentech from attempting to enforce its patent against third parties, including us and Wyeth. In addition to its opposition, Glaxo Group Limited has filed an action in the UK to revoke the UK counterpart of EP-B-1176981. If the Genentech patent is not held invalid or limited in scope, and if our activities are determined to be covered by the patent, we cannot provide any assurance that Genentech would be willing to grant us or Wyeth a license on terms we or they would consider commercially reasonable, if at all. As a consequence, we and Wyeth could be prevented from manufacturing and marketing TRU-015 for the treatment of RA in the designated and extended states of the European Patent Convention where the patent is validated which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Genentech European patent claims the benefit of priority to two U.S. provisional patent applications that are unpublished and the status of which will remain confidential unless or until a U.S. patent or patent application claiming priority to the provisional patent applications publishes. In the event any such corresponding U.S. patent issues, and if our activities are determined to be covered by such a patent, we cannot provide any assurance that Genentech would be willing to grant us or Wyeth a license on terms we or they would consider commercially reasonable, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our collaboration with Wyeth. Issued patents held by others may limit our ability to develop commercial products. All issued patents are entitled to a presumption of validity under the laws of the United States. If we need licenses to such patents to permit us to develop or market our product candidates, we may be required to pay significant fees or royalties and we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain such licenses at all. Competitors or third parties may obtain patents that may cover subject matter we use in developing the technology required to bring our products to market, that we use in producing our products, or that we use in treating patients with our products. We know that others have filed patent applications in various jurisdictions that relate to several areas in which we are developing products. Some of these patent applications have already resulted in patents and some are still pending. We may be required to alter our processes or product candidates, pay licensing fees or cease activities. Certain parts of our SMIPtm product technology, including the current expression system responsible for the production of the recombinant proteins used in our product candidates and including certain nucleic acids, originated from third-party sources. These third-party sources include academic, government and other research laboratories, as well as the public domain. If use of technology incorporated into or used to produce our product candidates is challenged, or if our processes or product candidates conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us, in Europe, the United States and elsewhere, claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. Additionally, it is not possible to predict with certainty what patent claims may issue from pending applications. In the United States, for example, patent prosecution can proceed in secret prior to issuance of a patent. As a result, third parties may be able to obtain patents with claims relating to our product candidates which they could attempt to assert against us. Further, as we develop our products, third parties may assert that we infringe the patents currently held or licensed by them and we cannot predict the outcome of any such action. 27 Table of Contents There has been significant litigation in the biotechnology industry over patents and other proprietary rights and if we become involved in any litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of our resources, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license, grant cross-licenses and pay substantial royalties in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in any legal action or that any license required under a third-party patent would be made available on acceptable terms or at all. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product, or forced to cease some aspect of our business operations, as a result of claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our operations. Should third parties file patent applications, or be issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention which could result in substantial costs to us or an adverse decision as to the priority of our inventions. An unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding could require us to cease using the technology or to license rights from prevailing third parties. There is no guarantee that any prevailing party would offer us a license or that we could acquire any license made available to us on commercially acceptable terms. If any products we develop become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, our business could be harmed. Our ability to commercialize any product candidate profitably will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for such product candidate and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers or private payors, and other organizations in the United States and internationally. Even if we succeed in bringing one or more product candidates to market, these products may not be considered cost-effective, and the amount reimbursed for any product may be insufficient to allow us to sell it profitably. Because our product candidates are in the early stages of development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage for newly approved products, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the product candidate is approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not mean that any product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale and distribution. Increasingly, the third-party payors who reimburse patients, such as government and private payors, are requiring that companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the reimbursement we are able to obtain for any product we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our business could be harmed. We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health care providers, pharmaceutical companies or others selling our products. If we 28 Table of Contents cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our product candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. Although we currently have product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials for expenses or losses up to a $5 million aggregate annual limit, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any or all expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for our product candidates in development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on products that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. We currently rely on third-party manufacturers to supply our product candidates, which could delay or prevent the clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates. We currently depend on Wyeth and Lonza for the supply of our lead product candidate, TRU-015. We also currently depend on a single manufacturer for certain biopharmaceutical development and manufacturing services for TRU-016, another product candidate. Any disruption in production, inability of these third-party manufacturers to produce adequate quantities to meet our needs or other impediments with respect to development or manufacturing could adversely affect our ability to continue our research and development activities, successfully complete preclinical studies and clinical trials, delay submissions of our regulatory applications or adversely affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates in a timely manner, or at all. Our product candidates have not yet been manufactured on a commercial scale. In order to commercialize a product candidate, the third-party manufacturer may need to increase its manufacturing capacity, which may require the manufacturer to fund capital improvements to support the scale-up of manufacturing and related activities. The third-party manufacturer may not be able to successfully increase its manufacturing capacity for our product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval in a timely or economic manner, or at all. If any manufacturer is unable to provide commercial quantities of a product candidate, we will have to successfully transfer manufacturing technology to a new manufacturer. Engaging a new manufacturer for a particular product candidate could require us to conduct comparative studies or utilize other means to determine bioequivalence between product candidates manufactured by a new manufacturer and those previously manufactured by the existing manufacturer, which could delay or prevent our ability to commercialize our product candidates. If any of these manufacturers is unable or unwilling to increase its manufacturing capacity or if we are unable to establish alternative arrangements on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, the development and commercialization of our product candidates may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Any manufacturer of our products must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the 29 Table of Contents maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. We have little control over our manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to our manufacturers’ failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before, or more successfully, than we do. Our future success depends on our ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to the design, development and commercialization of our product candidates. Our objective is to design, develop and commercialize new products with superior efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety. Because our strategy is to develop new product candidates for antigen targets on a cell’s surface that have been clinically validated as important in disease management by existing products or by potential products in late-stage clinical trials, our product candidates, if approved for marketing by regulatory authorities, are likely to compete with existing products that have a history of effective and safe use and with new therapeutic agents. We expect any product candidate that we commercialize with our collaborative partners or on our own will compete with existing, market-leading products. TRU-015 Product Candidate. If approved for the treatment of RA, we anticipate that TRU-015 would compete with other marketed protein therapeutics for the treatment of RA including Rituxan® (Genentech, Biogen Idec and Roche), the recently approved Orencia® (BMS), Enbrel® (Amgen and Wyeth), Remicade® (JNJ and Shering-Plough) and Humira® (Abbott). Other CD20-directed therapies under development that could potentially be used in the treatment of RA include ocrelizumab (Genentech and Biogen Idec), Humax-CD20tm (GenMab and GSK) and IMMU-106 (Immunomedics). Additional protein therapeutics under development that could potentially compete with TRU-015 include Actemra® (Chugai and Roche) and Cimziatm (UCB). TRU-016 Product Candidate. If approved for the treatment of NHL or CLL, we anticipate that our TRU-016 product candidate would compete with other B-cell depleting therapeutics. While we are not aware of any CD37-directed therapeutics in development or on the market, other biologic therapies are marketed for the treatment of NHL or CLL or both, such as Rituxan®/Mabthera® (Genentech, Biogen Idec and Roche), Zevalin® (Biogen Idec and Schering AG), Bexxar® (GSK) and Campath® (Genzyme and Schering AG). Additional protein therapeutics under development that could potentially compete with our TRU-016 product candidate for the treatment of NHL or CLL or both include Humax-CD20tm (GenMab and GSK), HGS-ETR1 (HGSI and GSK), epratuzumab (Immunomedics), IDEC-152 (Biogen Idec), SGN-40 (Seattle Genetics) and HCD122 (Novartis). Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater commercial infrastructures than we have. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to: • design and develop products that are superior to other products in the market; • attract qualified scientific, medical, sales and marketing and commercial personnel; • obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our processes and product candidates; • obtain required regulatory approvals; and • successfully collaborate with others in the design, development and commercialization of new products. Established competitors may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop novel compounds that could make our product candidates obsolete. In addition, any new product that competes with a generic market-leading product must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and safety in order to overcome severe price competition and to be commercially successful. If we are not able to compete 30 Table of Contents effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer. If we are unable to establish a sales and marketing infrastructure or enter into collaborations with partners to perform these functions, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates. We currently do not have any internal sales, marketing or distribution capabilities. In order to commercialize any of our product candidates, we must either acquire or internally develop a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure or enter into collaborations with partners to perform these services for us. In December 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Wyeth to develop and commercialize therapeutics directed to the CD20 protein and other targets. We may not, however, be able to enter into collaborations with respect to our product candidates not covered by the Wyeth collaboration agreement on acceptable terms, if at all. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our product candidates without collaboration partners include: • our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating a sales and marketing organization. If we are not able to partner with a third party and are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing and distribution infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. The loss of members of our management team could substantially disrupt our business operations. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our management team, and, particularly, Peter A. Thompson, M.D., FACP, our president, chief executive officer and chairman of the Board. The loss of Dr. Thompson, whether from retirement, competing offers or other causes, could prevent us from executing our business strategy, cause us to lose a strategic partner or otherwise materially affect our operations. Dr. Thompson, as well as the rest of our management team and key employees, are at-will employees, and we do not maintain any key-person life insurance policies. We rely on highly skilled personnel, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain our operations or grow effectively. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel for all areas of our organization. In this regard, in anticipation of increased development and commercialization activities, we are currently planning to increase the total number of our full-time employees from 78 as of December 31, 2006 to approximately 109 by December 31, 2007. As a result, we expect personnel costs to increase in the future. The increase in costs will depend on the timing and compensation of the new hires. If we are unable to hire and train a sufficient number of qualified employees for any reason, we may not be able to implement our development and commercialization activities or grow effectively. We have in the past maintained a rigorous, highly selective and time-consuming hiring process. We believe that our approach to hiring has significantly contributed to our success to date. However, our highly selective hiring process has made it more difficult for us to hire a sufficient number of qualified employees and, as we grow, our hiring process may prevent us from hiring the personnel we need in a timely manner. If we do not succeed in attracting qualified personnel and retaining and motivating existing personnel, our existing operations may suffer and we may be unable to grow effectively. 31 Table of Contents If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes contamination or injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any liability could exceed our resources. We do not maintain liability insurance coverage for our handling of biological or hazardous materials. We, the third parties that conduct clinical trials on our behalf and the third parties that manufacture our product candidates are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in significant fines and work stoppages and may harm our business. Our management and auditors have identified a material weakness in our internal controls that, if not properly remediated, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements and the inability of our management to provide its report on the effectiveness of our internal controls as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the year ending December 31, 2007, either of which could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. We are not currently required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and are therefore not required to make an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Further, our independent registered public accounting firm has not been engaged to express, nor have they expressed, an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. However, in connection with our fiscal 2006 financial statement audit, our independent registered public accounting firm informed us that they had identified a material weakness in our internal controls as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). As defined by the PCAOB, a material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control efficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. The material weakness reported by our independent registered public accounting firm relates to our periodic financial statement close process, and the lack of financial accounting and reporting personnel, a lack of sufficient levels of review and approval of the results of the closing procedures and a lack of a formal process to assess the accounting implications of complex transactions. Deficiencies related to the financial statement close process were compounded by our use of an unsophisticated accounting software package. We have taken remedial measures to improve the effectiveness of our internal controls. Specifically, we have: • strengthened our internal staffing and technical expertise in financial and SEC accounting and reporting; • improved the segregation of duties within our accounting and finance department; • upgraded our accounting software systems; and • engaged an outside compliance consulting firm to advise us on improving our internal controls to take advantage of best practices. We plan to continue to assess our internal controls and procedures and intend to take further action as necessary or appropriate to address any other matters we identify, including to effect compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 when we are required to make an assessment of our internal controls under Section 404 for the year ending December 31, 2007. However, the existence of a material weakness is an indication that there is a more than remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a future period, and the process of designing and implementing effective internal controls and procedures is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and 32 Table of Contents react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expend significant resources to maintain a system of internal controls that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations as a public company. We cannot assure you that the measures taken to date or to be taken in the future will remediate the material weakness noted by our independent public accounting firm or that we will implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. In addition, we cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls will not be discovered in the future. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the SEC rules and regulations implementing such act will require us to conduct an annual evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, and have that evaluation attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm starting with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 also requires that our audit committee be advised and regularly updated on management’s review of internal controls. If we are not able to timely remedy the material weakness identified in connection with our fiscal 2006 audit, or if we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, management may not be able to assess whether our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, which may subject us to adverse regulatory consequences and could result in a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, if we fail to develop and maintain effective controls and procedures, we may be unable to provide the required financial information in a timely and reliable manner or otherwise comply with the standards applicable to us as a public company. Any failure by us to timely provide the required financial information could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and the market value of our securities. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we may be unable to develop our product candidates and we could be forced to share our rights to these product candidates with third parties on terms that may not be favorable to us. We need large amounts of capital to support our research and development efforts. If we are unable to secure capital to fund our operations, we will not be able to continue our design and development efforts and we might have to enter into collaborations that could require us to share rights to our product candidates to a greater extent than we currently intend. Based on our current operating plans, we believe that our existing capital resources and the net proceeds from the offering and the concurrent private placement to Wyeth, together with interest thereon, will be sufficient to meet our financial obligations for at least the next 24 months. We may require additional capital after that period. We may need to raise additional funds if we choose to expand more rapidly than we presently anticipate. We may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities, or both, or incur other indebtedness. The sale of additional equity or debt securities, if convertible, could result in the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock and could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. In addition, we cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we will be prevented from pursuing research and development efforts. This could harm our business, prospects and financial condition and cause the price of our common stock to fall. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The trading prices of many newly publicly-traded companies are highly volatile, particularly companies such as ours that have limited operating histories. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations. These factors include: • quarterly variations in our results of operations or those of our collaborators or competitors; 33 Table of Contents • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced product candidates on a timely basis; • announcements by us or our collaborators or competitors of new commercial products, clinical progress or the lack thereof, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • any major change in our board or management; • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and • political instability, natural disasters, war and/or events of terrorism. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. These fluctuations may be even more pronounced in the trading market for our common stock shortly following this offering. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the availability of research and reports that third-party industry or financial analysts publish about us. There are many large, publicly-traded companies active in the biopharmaceutical industry, which may mean it will be less likely that we receive widespread analyst coverage. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intent to sell, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market after the 180-day contractual lock-up agreements (which may be extended by up to 34 days under certain conditions) and other legal restrictions on resale lapse, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As of March 15, 2007, we had outstanding 17,568,310 shares of common stock. Of these shares, only the 4,600,000 shares of common stock sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable, without restriction, in the public market as of the date of this annual report. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated may, in its sole discretion, permit our officers, directors, employees and current stockholders who are subject to the 180-day contractual lock-up to sell shares prior to the expiration of the lock-up agreements. After the lock-up agreements pertaining to our initial public offering expire, up to an additional 12,925,698 shares will be immediately eligible for sale in the public market, 10,845,255 of which are held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates and will be subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 under the Securities Act and various vesting agreements. In addition, 1,573,634 shares of common stock that are subject to outstanding options as of March 15, 2006 and the 1,368,238 shares reserved for future issuance under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements, the lock-up agreements and Rules 144 and 701 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. 34 Table of Contents The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of March 15, 2007, our executive officers, directors, current five percent or greater stockholders and affiliated entities together beneficially owned approximately 61.9% of our common stock outstanding. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, have control over most matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Corporate action might be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company that other stockholders may view as beneficial. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this document, all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties. When we use words such as “may”, “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek” and “estimate” or similar words, we are making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future business success or financial results. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements as to our expectations regarding: • the therapeutic and commercial potential of TRU-015 and other SMIPtm drug candidates; • the effectiveness of our custom drug assembly technology; • the ability of SMIPtm product candidates to be produced at large scale in mammalian cell expression systems from readily available starting materials; • the benefits from our collaboration with Wyeth on our clinical development of TRU-015; • future clinical development programs and the timing thereof; • future clinical development plans; • the details of the clinical trials and the timing thereof; • the anticipated future size of the RA and SLE markets; • the timing of regulatory applications and action; • payments and reimbursements we expect to receive; • intellectual property rights and defenses to patent infringement claims; • the impact of SFAS 123R on our statement of operations; • the adequacy of our current facilities to meet our near-term needs; • future capital needs and expenditures; and • the future impact of a sudden change in market interest rates on our operating results and cash flows. 35 Table of Contents Executive Officers and Key Employees The following table provides information regarding our current executive officers and key employees as of March 15, 2007: Name Age Position(s) Executive Officers: Peter A. Thompson, M.D., FACP 47 President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors Michelle G. Burris 41 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Key Employees: Daniel J. Burge, M.D. 45 Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer Leander F. Lauffer, Ph.D. 53 Senior Vice President of Business Development & Corporate Strategy Jeffrey A. Ledbetter, Ph.D. 56 Chief Scientific Officer Kendall M. Mohler, Ph.D. 51 Senior Vice President of Research & Development Judith A. Woods, Ph.D. 54 Senior Vice President of Legal Affairs and Chief Patent Counsel Peter A. Thompson, M.D., FACP, is one of our founders and has served as our president and chief executive officer since May 2002, as our treasurer since December 2002, as a member of our board of directors since February 2002, and as the chairman of our board of directors since March 2006. From 2003 to 2006, Dr. Thompson served as a venture partner at ATP Capital, a venture capital firm. Previously, Dr. Thompson served as chief executive officer and chairman of the board of directors of iMetrikus, a healthcare technology company, which he co-founded. Prior to iMetrikus, Dr. Thompson served as vice president and general manager of Chiron Informatics, and prior to Chiron, he served as vice president, research and technology development at Becton Dickinson Immunocytometry Systems. Dr. Thompson is a board certified medical oncologist and internist who received an M.D. and a Sc.B. from Brown University. Michelle G. Burris has served as our senior vice president and chief financial officer since February 2006. From August 2005 to January 2006, Ms. Burris served as senior vice president and chief financial officer of Dendreon Corporation. From 1995 to 2005, Ms. Burris was an employee of Corixa Corporation, where she last served as senior vice president and chief financial officer. Ms. Burris is a member of the board of directors of Sonus Pharmaceuticals, which she joined in 2004. Ms. Burris received an MBA and a Post Graduate Certificate in accounting from Seattle University and a B.S. from George Mason University. Daniel J. Burge, M.D., has served as our chief medical officer since January 2006 and as a senior vice president since March 2004. From 2002 to 2003, he served as vice president of clinical research and development at Amgen. From 2000 to 2003, Dr. Burge served as vice president of clinical research and development at Immunex Corporation. Dr. Burge received an M.D. from Thomas Jefferson University and a B.A. from Taylor University. Leander F. Lauffer, Ph.D., has served as our senior vice president of business development and corporate strategy since February 2005. From 1997 to 2004, Dr. Lauffer served as vice president of business development at Chiron Corporation. Dr. Lauffer received a Ph.D. from Free University, Berlin and a M.S. from Konstanz University. Jeffrey A. Ledbetter, Ph.D., is one of our founders and has served as our chief scientific officer since September 2001. From September 2001 to May 2002, Dr. Ledbetter served as our president and chief executive officer; from September 2001 to December 2002 he served as our secretary; and from September 2001 to July 2004 he served as a member of our board of directors. From 1999 to 2002, Dr. Ledbetter served as a principal investigator at the Pacific Northwest Research Institute. Dr. Ledbetter received a Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin and a B.A. from Carleton College. Kendall M. Mohler, Ph.D., is one of our founders and has served as our senior vice president of research and development since November 2002. From November 2002 to July 2004, he served as a member of our 36 Table of Contents board of directors. From 2001 to 2002, Dr. Mohler served as vice president of biological sciences at Immunex Corporation. Dr. Mohler received a Ph.D. from the University of Texas Health Science Center and a B.S. from the University of Kansas. Judith A. Woods, Ph.D., has served as our senior vice president of legal affairs and chief patent counsel since September 2004. From 2002 to 2004, Dr. Woods served as associate general counsel of intellectual property at Abgenix Incorporated. From 1992 to 2001, Dr. Woods served as chief patent counsel at ICOS Corporation. Dr. Woods received a J.D. from George Mason University, a Ph.D. from the Medical College of Virginia and a B.S. from Virginia Commonwealth University. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 