Item 1A. Risk Factors. Unless the context indicates otherwise, all references to “we,” “us,” “our” in this section “Risk Factors,” as well as in certain other sections contained in this report, refer to ClearPoint and its subsidiaries. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as the other information included in this report, before making your investment decisions with respect to our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the value of our securities could decline substantially. 9 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We may be unable to obtain adequate financing to implement our business plan or repay our existing debt obligations, which will negatively impact our liquidity and ability to continue operations. We are highly leveraged and have very limited financial resources. At December 31, 2007, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $2.0 million and approximately $39.6 million in total liabilities. Our ability to obtain financing depends, in part, upon prevailing capital market conditions as well as our operating results, which may negatively impact our efforts to arrange financing on satisfactory terms. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to implement our business plan or repay our existing debt obligations. The failure to obtain capital on acceptable terms will also negatively impact our liquidity and ability to continue operations. See also “— We incurred losses over the last three fiscal years, and continued losses may negatively impact our business, ability to repay debt, financial condition and results of operations,” and “— Our indebtedness may limit cash flow available for our operations.” We incurred losses over the last three fiscal years, and continued losses may negatively impact our business, ability to repay debt, financial condition and results of operations. We incurred net losses of approximately $12.4 million, $1.4 million and $1.2 million for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. As of December 31, 2007 we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $15.7 million. If we continue to experience losses, it may negatively impact our business, ability to repay debt, financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness may limit cash flow available for our operations. As of December 31, 2007, we had total long-term debt of approximately $20.3 million. In connection with the merger with Terra Nova, we retired all outstanding debt with Bridge Healthcare Finance, LLC (“Bridge”) in the amount of approximately $12.5 million. In order to finance the acquisition of certain assets of ASG, on February 23, 2007, we entered into a $20.0 million revolving credit facility with M&T and a $3.0 million term loan with M&T, increased to a $5.0 million term loan on July 13, 2007 in the First Amendment to the M&T Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2007, we had $4.3 million of subordinated and other notes from various sources, as described herein, to finance our operations and acquisitions. Because we are obligated to dedicate a portion of our cash flow to service our debt obligations, our cash flow available for operations will be reduced. The amount of indebtedness we have could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the markets in which we compete and require us to dedicate more cash flow to service our debt than we desire. Subject to limitations in our credit agreement, we may incur additional debt in the future, for acquisitions or otherwise, and servicing this debt could further limit our cash flow. Restrictive covenants in our credit agreement with M&T may reduce our operating flexibility, which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The credit agreement (including all amendments) related to our revolving credit facility and term loan contains various financial covenants as well as covenants that restrict our ability to, among other matters: • incur other indebtedness; • enter into any merger or consolidation transaction; • sell, lease, assign or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our property, business or assets; • make acquisitions or investments; and • pay dividends or make other distributions on our capital stock. 10 Table of Contents These restrictions may limit our ability to obtain future financing, make capital expenditures or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise from time to time. Our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, such as general economic conditions. Pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement with M&T, the failure to comply with covenants constitutes an event of default and entitles the lender to, among other remedies, declare the loans due and payable. If the lender accelerates the repayment of borrowings or exercises other remedies available to it in the event of default, it will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 21% of our 2007 revenues were generated from our ten largest customers, the loss of any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 21% of our 2007 revenues were generated from our ten largest customers. The loss of any one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10.1 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry and may be unable to compete successfully against our existing or new competitors, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. ClearPoint competes with e-procurement technology providers in the temporary staffing industry as well as other traditional temporary staffing firms offering similar services on a national, regional or local basis. ClearPoint is not aware of any competitors that compete directly with its iLabor platform. However, there are other companies that offer e-procurement software that also relate to the procurement of labor and these companies may have greater financial resources than ClearPoint and there is no assurance that iLabor may be successful in gaining market share. The staffing services market is highly competitive with limited barriers to entry. Some of our strongest competitors include national companies that have greater financial resources and larger marketing presence. Additionally, we compete with specialty providers in certain verticals. We also compete for customers with small, privately held competitors. Price competition in the employment services industry is intense. We expect that the level of competition will remain high, which could limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share or profitability. There has been a significant increase in the number of customers consolidating their staffing services purchases with a single provider or small group of providers. The trend to consolidate purchases has in some cases made it more difficult for us to obtain or retain customers. We also face the risk that our current or prospective customers may decide to provide similar services internally. If we are unable to successfully compete in the employment services industry, it may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our iLabor and vendor management software solutions will consistently require upgrades to compete with other software solutions being offered, which will involve a significant capital investment. We currently provide software and technology platforms for the procurement of temporary labor by our clients. We utilize our proprietary software and technology solutions, iLabor and StaffPillar, to provide vendor management solutions to our customers. We will need to spend a portion of our capital to continuously upgrade and customize the iLabor and StaffPillar software product. If we do not invest a significant portion of our capital to continuously upgrade and customize our vendor management software and technology platform, we may be unable to compete effectively. Interruptions or delays in service from our iLabor or StaffPillar platforms could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We provide much of our services, including iLabor and StaffPillar, through computer hardware and software that is hosted both at our headquarters and at our clients’ sites. All web-hosting and other technology distribution facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. These facilities are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of terrorism, vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions that we take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, act of terrorism or other unanticipated problem at any facility where our technology is housed or hosted could result in lengthy interruptions in our service, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If iLabor does not gain market acceptance, it may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2007, ClearPoint started using iLabor as a technology-based method to enable its clients to procure temporary labor through a ClearPoint-approved staffing vendor network. iLabor constitutes a major component of ClearPoint’s business plan going forward. If iLabor does not gain market acceptance, it may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Our approved vendor base in iLabor may not be able to successfully fill open positions posted by our clients, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on our approved staffing vendor base in iLabor to fill open positions posted by our clients. If we are unable to fill sufficient open positions in iLabor through our vendor base, we may be unable to compete effectively, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any significant recurrent economic downturn could result in our clients using fewer temporary employees, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Demand for our staffing services is significantly affected by the general level of economic activity and unemployment in the United States. Frequently, clients use temporary staffing services to manage personnel costs and staffing needs. When economic activity increases, temporary employees are often added before full-time employees are hired. However, as economic activity slows, many clients reduce their utilization of temporary employees before releasing regular full-time employees. Typically, we may experience less demand for our services and more competitive pricing pressure during periods of economic downturn, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on our senior management and the continued performance and productivity of our approved vendor base; the loss of their services could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on the continued efforts of the members of our senior management as well as the performance and productivity of our vendor base. The loss of any of the members of our senior management may cause a significant disruption in our business. In addition, the loss of any staffing suppliers in our vendor base may jeopardize existing customer relationships with businesses that use our services based on relationships with these individuals. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or suppliers in our vendor base could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our vendors fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, it may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon our vendors’ ability to attract and retain qualified temporary and full-time personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our clients. Our vendors must continually evaluate and upgrade their base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing client needs and emerging technologies. Furthermore, a substantial number of their temporary employees during any given year will terminate their employment with them and accept regular staff employment with our clients. Competition for individuals, especially qualified transportation personnel, with proven skills remains intense, and demand for these individuals is expected to remain strong for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available to our vendors in sufficient numbers. If our vendors are unable to attract the necessary qualified personnel for our clients, it may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our staffing vendors may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our staffing vendors are in the business of employing people and placing them in the workplace of our clients. Attendant risks of these activities include, but are not limited to: • possible claims by clients of employee misconduct or negligence; • claims by employees of discrimination or harassment (including claims relating to actions of our clients); • fines and costs related to the inadvertent employment of illegal aliens; 12 Table of Contents • payment of workers’ compensation claims and other similar claims; • violations of wage and hour requirements; • errors and omissions of temporary employees (this would include claims of negligence due to a temporary employee’s lack of intimate familiarity with a client’s operations); and • claims by clients relating to employees’ misuse of customer proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, other criminal activity or torts or similar claims. Some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation which could include us as a named party, which could be time-consuming to our management team as well as costly to us. Such claims could also materially negatively affect our vendors’ business and financial position, which could adversely impact the viability of our vendor network. Therefore, such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There may also be negative publicity with respect to these problems that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have converted a significant number of our branches to a licensing and subcontracting model and we derive a portion of our revenue from these operations. We have converted a significant number of our branches to a licensing and subcontracting model. We derive a portion of our revenue from these licensee and subcontractor relationships. Although we believe that the licensing and subcontracting model is beneficial in that it allows us to substantially reduce our expenses and certain risks associated with branch based operations, the licensing and subcontracting model presents a number of disadvantages and risks, including, but not limited to, the following: • The potential risks to our brand if our licensee or subcontractor fails to perform or projects a brand image inconsistent with our values, even where we retain substantial rights to remedy such a default, which will likely be more significant if an arrangement places multiple markets or a large number of branches under the control of a single licensee or subcontractor; and • Although we can exercise control over our licensee and subcontractor to the extent provided under the license and subcontract agreements, the quality of the licensed and subcontracted operations may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Consequently, the licensee and subcontractor may not successfully operate branches in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements, or may not hire and train qualified managers or temporary personnel. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results and comply with our reporting requirements. As a result, current and potential stockholders, clients and vendors may lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure, which could adversely affect our business and we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny. Our management performed an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. Based on this assessment, our management determined that our internal 13 Table of Contents control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”), and identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If the remedial policies and procedures we plan to implement are insufficient to address the identified material weaknesses or if additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses relating to our internal control over financial reporting are discovered in the future, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations, our financial statements may contain material misstatements and our operating results may be adversely affected. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of the periodic future management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Internal control deficiencies could also cause investors, as well as our clients and vendors, to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Although we believe that we have addressed, or will address in the near future, our material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting, we cannot guarantee that the measures we have taken to date or any future measures will remediate the material weaknesses identified or that any additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not arise in the future due to a failure to implement and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. We have prepared an internal plan of action for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. However, we cannot guarantee that we will not have any “significant deficiencies” or “material weaknesses” within our processes. Compliance with the requirements of Section 404 is expected to be expensive and time-consuming. While we are working diligently to execute our plan of action, if we fail to execute this plan in a timely manner, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, any failure to establish an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures could cause our current and potential stockholders, as well as our clients and vendors, to lose confidence in our financial reporting and disclosure required under the Exchange Act, which could adversely affect our business. We are subject to the TSIL Litigation and the Brown Litigation, the impact of which on our financial position and results of operations is uncertain. The inherent uncertainty related to litigation of this type and the preliminary stage of these matters makes it difficult to predict the ultimate outcome or potential liability that we may incur as a result. We are involved in a complaint filed in the U.S. District court in Florida by Temporary Services Insurance Ltd. (“TSIL”) (the “TSIL Litigation”) which alleges that ALS, LLC (“ALS”), Advantage Services Group, LLC (“Advantage Services”), certain officers and shareholders of ALS and Advantage Services as well as certain other third party companies (collectively, the “ALS Defendants”) failed to pay at least $2,161,172 in insurance assessments, as well as other requested damages. We are also named as a defendant because we acquired certain assets from ALS and its wholly owned subsidiaries, including Advantage Services Group II, LLC (“ASG II”), in February 2007, for which we paid a portion of the purchase price at closing to the ALS Defendants, through ALS. It is alleged that this transfer rendered ASG II, one of the named insureds on the TSIL policy, insolvent and unable to pay the insurance assessments and damages owed to TSIL. We are involved in a complaint filed in the Superior Court of the State of California (Alameda County) by James W. Brown (“Brown”), on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, on behalf of the general public and as an “aggrieved employee” under the California Labor Code Private Attorneys General Act (the “Brown Litigation”) which alleges that ClearPoint Advantage, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of CPR, has (i) failed to pay overtime compensation to him and to all California employees similarly situated, (ii) failed to pay wages at time of discharge to him and to all California employees similarly situated, (iii) failed to pay all wages at the time required to him and to all California employees similarly situated, (iv) failed to provide proper itemized wage statements to him and to all California employees similarly situated, and (v) issued checks drawn on out-of-state banks with no in-state address for presentation to him and to all California employees similarly situated. Procedurally, both of these matters are in very preliminary stages. We believe that we have several defenses to the claims raised in these matters and intend to vigorously defend them. Due to the inherent uncertainties in 14 Table of Contents litigation and because the ultimate resolution of these proceedings is influenced by factors outside of our control, we are currently unable to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters or their impact on our financial position or results of operations. However, to the extent that our management will be required to participate in or otherwise devote substantial amounts of time to the defense of these matters, such activities would result in the diversion of our management resources from our business operations and the implementation of our business strategy, which may negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Securities Voting control by our executive officers, directors and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. In connection with the merger, Vahan Kololian, our lead director, Michael D. Traina, our Chairman of the board of directors and Chief Executive Officer, and Optos Capital, LLC, controlled by Christopher Ferguson, our former director, President and Secretary, entered into a voting agreement. These persons have agreed to vote for each other’s designees to our board of directors through director elections in 2008. Accordingly, they will be able to control the election of directors and, therefore, our policies and direction during the term of the voting agreement. As of March 24, 2008, these persons beneficially owned 57% of our common stock. This concentration of ownership and voting agreement could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. See “—Anti-takeover provisions to which we may be subject may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders.” There is not presently an active market for shares of our common stock and, therefore, you may be unable to sell any shares of common stock in the event that you need a source of liquidity. Although shares of our common stock are listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, the trading in our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the trading in the securities of many other companies listed on that market. A public trading market in our common stock having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. In the event an active market for the shares of our common stock does not develop, you may be unable to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them or at any price. Our stock price may be subject to significant volatility and could suffer a decline in value. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant volatility. We believe that many factors, including several which are beyond our control, have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements of new services by us or our competitors; • announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; • changes in general economic conditions; • actual or anticipated changes in laws and government regulations; • changes in industry trends or conditions; and • sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock or other securities in the market. 15 Table of Contents In addition, the stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Capital Market in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Anti-takeover provisions to which we may be subject may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could hinder or delay a change in control of our company, including transactions in which holders of common stock might otherwise receive a premium over the market price of their shares at the time of the transaction. For example, our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation establishes a classified or “staggered” board of directors, which means that only approximately one third of our directors is required to stand for election at each annual meeting of our stockholders. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation authorizes us to issue 60,000,000 shares of common stock and 1,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. No shares of preferred stock were outstanding as of March 24, 2008. As of March 24, 2008, 13,208,916 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding, 11,040,000 shares of common stock were issuable upon the exercise of the warrants, 240,000 shares of common stock were issuable upon the exercise of the underwriters’ purchase option, 480,000 shares of common stock were issuable upon the exercise of warrants which underlie the underwriters’ purchase option and 2,750,000 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under our 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (“the LTI Plan”). Therefore, our board of directors may issue additional shares of common stock or issue preferred stock convertible into shares of common stock, which could significantly dilute the ownership of a potential acquirer. Also, pursuant to our Bylaws, it may be difficult for the potential acquirer to call a special meeting of our stockholders because only a majority of the board of directors, our Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman or the stockholders owning a majority of our capital stock entitled to vote may call a special meeting of stockholders. For a discussion of the anti-takeover effect of the voting agreement among our three stockholders, see “—Voting control by our executive officers, directors and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval.” We may issue shares of preferred stock that could be entitled to dividends, liquidation preferences and other special rights and preferences not shared by holders of our common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. We may issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series as our board of directors may from time to time determine without stockholder approval. The voting powers, preferences and other special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of each such series of preferred stock may differ from each other. The issuance of any such series of preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and could reduce the value of our common stock. We do not pay cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. We are subject to contractual limitations on the payment of dividends under our credit agreement. As a Delaware corporation, we may not declare and pay dividends on our capital stock if the amount paid exceeds an amount equal to the surplus, which represents the excess of our net assets over paid-in-capital or, if there is no surplus, our net profits for the current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year. Under applicable Delaware case law, dividends may not be paid on our common stock if we become insolvent or the payment of dividends will render us insolvent. We do not pay, and we do not anticipate paying, any cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 