ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K as well as our current reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Our success depends on the success of our lead product candidate, TRU-015, and we cannot be certain that it will be safe or effective, complete clinical trials, receive regulatory approval, or be successfully commercialized. Although our lead product candidate, TRU-015, has recently completed a Phase 2b clinical trial for the treatment of RA, additional clinical trials would be required before we are able to submit a BLA to the FDA for approval. Furthermore, TRU-015 is only beginning Phase 1/2 clinical trials for the treatment of NHL. The regulatory approval process can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. In December 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Wyeth pursuant to which Wyeth is responsible for the regulatory approval process regarding, and any subsequent commercialization of, TRU-015. In addition to the risks and uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, Wyeth may not advance the development and commercialization of TRU-015 as quickly as we would like, if at all. Clinical trials involving the number of sites and patients required for FDA approval of TRU-015 may not be successfully completed. If these clinical trials are not completed or their results do not meet safety and efficacy thresholds required by the FDA, TRU-015 will likely not receive regulatory approval. Even if TRU-015 receives regulatory approval, it may never be successfully commercialized. If TRU-015 does not receive regulatory approval or is not successfully commercialized, we may not be able to generate revenue, become profitable, or continue our operations. We depend on our collaborative relationship with Wyeth to develop, manufacture, and commercialize our lead product candidate, TRU-015, and other selected product candidates. In December 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Wyeth for the development and worldwide commercialization of TRU-015 and other therapeutics directed to CD20. We are also collaborating with Wyeth on the development and worldwide commercialization of certain other SMIPtm product candidates directed to a small number of targets other than CD20 that have been established pursuant to the agreement. In addition, we have the option to co-promote with Wyeth, on customary terms to be agreed, CD20-directed therapies in the United States for niche indications. The right to develop and commercialize, on our own or with others, SMIPtm product candidates directed to all targets not included within the agreement, including CD37, however, remains entirely with us. Although Wyeth is responsible for developing, manufacturing, and commercializing product candidates directed to collaboration targets, including CD20, and the costs associated with such activities, we were obligated to complete the recent Phase 2b clinical trial, and are obligated to conduct retreatment studies, in RA, and may be obligated to conduct niche indication registration studies for CD20-directed therapies. Any future payments, including royalties to us, will depend on the extent to which we and Wyeth advance product candidates through development and commercialization. As of December 23, 2007, Wyeth may terminate the collaboration relationship, in whole or in part, without cause, by giving 90 days’ written notice to us. Wyeth also has the right to terminate the agreement, on a target-by-target basis, upon 60 days’ written notice, if any safety or regulatory issue arises that would have a material adverse effect on Wyeth’s ability to develop, manufacture, or commercialize the product candidate directed to that target. Our ability to receive any significant revenue from our product candidates covered by the collaboration agreement depends on the efforts of Wyeth and our ability to collaborate effectively. With respect to control over decisions and responsibilities, the collaboration agreement provides for a research committee and a CD20-directed therapy development committee consisting of representatives of Wyeth and us. Ultimate decision-making authority as to most matters within the collaboration, including development plans and timelines, however, is vested in Wyeth. On January 31, 2008, Wyeth announced that in 2008 it will begin a company-wide program designed to redefine Wyeth’s business model to facilitate Wyeth’s long-term growth, as well as address Wyeth’s short-term fiscal challenges. We cannot assure you Wyeth will continue the agreement, will fulfill its obligations under the agreement or will develop and commercialize our product candidates as quickly as we would like. If Wyeth terminates the agreement or fails to fulfill its obligations under the agreement, we would need to obtain the capital necessary to fund the development and commercialization of our product candidates or enter into 21 Table of Contents alternative arrangements with a third party. We could also become involved in disputes with Wyeth, which could lead to delays in or termination of our development and commercialization programs and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. If Wyeth terminates or breaches its agreement with us, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, our product development programs would be substantially delayed and the chances of successfully developing or commercializing our product candidates would be materially and adversely affected. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We have been engaged in designing and developing compounds and product candidates since 1999 and have not generated any product revenue to date. Our net loss was $23.3 million in the year ended December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $66.9 million. Since inception we have incurred $100.4 million of research and development expenses. We expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase as we continue to design and develop compounds and product candidates. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We are uncertain when or if we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Failure to become and remain profitable would adversely affect the price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. In addition, our net operating loss carryforwards and credits were substantially exhausted as a result of the payments we received from Wyeth in January 2006 pursuant to our collaboration agreement, and any remaining net operating loss carryforwards and credits may be subject to an annual limitation due to the “change in ownership” provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and similar state law provisions, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to reduce future tax expenses. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we may be unable to develop our product candidates and we could be forced to share our rights to these product candidates with third parties on terms that may not be favorable to us. We need large amounts of capital to support our research and development efforts. If we are unable to secure capital to fund our operations we will not be able to continue our design and development efforts, and we might have to enter into collaborations that could require us to share rights to our product candidates to a greater extent than we currently intend. Based on our current operating plans, we believe that our existing capital resources, together with interest thereon, will be sufficient to meet our financial obligations for at least the next 12 months. We may need to raise additional funds if we choose to expand more rapidly than we presently anticipate. We may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities, or both, or incur other indebtedness. The sale of additional equity or debt securities, if convertible, could result in the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock and could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights, and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. In addition, we cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us we will be prevented from pursuing research and development efforts. This could harm our business prospects and financial condition and cause the price of our common stock to fall. We cannot assure you that any of our product candidates will be safe or effective, or receive regulatory approval. The clinical trials and the manufacturing of our product candidates are, and marketing of our products will be, subject to extensive and rigorous review and regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States and in other countries where we intend to test and market our product candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any product candidate, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in each target 22 Table of Contents indication. This process can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and may include post-marketing studies and surveillance. To date, we have not successfully demonstrated in clinical trials safety or efficacy sufficient for regulatory approval. Although our lead product candidate, TRU-015, has recently completed a Phase 2b clinical trial for the treatment of RA, additional clinical trials would be required before we are able to submit a BLA to the FDA for approval. The results from preclinical testing and clinical trials that we have completed may not be predictive of results in future preclinical tests and clinical trials, and we cannot assure you that we will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to seek or obtain the requisite regulatory approvals. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. In addition, Wyeth has only recently initiated a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of TRU-015 for the treatment of NHL, and we expect clinical evaluation to begin in mid-2008, and although we filed an IND for our TRU-016 product candidate, we have not yet begun administering the product candidate to study subjects. All of our other product candidates remain in the discovery and pre-clinical testing stages. We may also encounter delays or rejections due to additional government regulation from future legislation, administrative action or changes in FDA policy. We cannot assure you that regulatory approval will be obtained for any of our product candidates, and even if the FDA approves a product, the approval will be limited to those indications covered in the approval. If our current product candidates are not shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, the resulting delays in developing other product candidates and conducting related preclinical testing and clinical trials, as well as the potential need for additional financing, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If we are unable to discover or successfully develop drugs that are effective and safe in humans and receive regulatory approval, we will not have a viable business. We do not expect any of our current product candidates to be commercially available in major markets before 2012, if at all. Any failure or delay in commencing or completing clinical trials for product candidates could severely harm our business. Each of our product candidates must undergo extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials as a condition to regulatory approval. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive and take many years to complete. To date we have not initiated any Phase 3 clinical trials of any product candidate. The commencement and completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed by many factors, including: • our or our collaborators’ ability to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • our or our collaborators’ ability to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in preclinical studies and clinical trials; • delays in patient enrollment and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; • poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues or side effects; • governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy, and guidelines; and • varying interpretation of data by us, any or all of our collaborators, the FDA, and similar foreign regulatory agencies. It is possible that none of our product candidates will complete the required clinical trials in any of the markets in which we or our collaborators intend to sell those product candidates. Accordingly, we or our collaborators may not seek or receive the regulatory approvals necessary to market our product candidates. Any failure or delay in commencing or completing clinical trials or obtaining regulatory approvals for product candidates would prevent or delay their commercialization and severely harm our business and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents If our SMIPtm technology or our product candidates, including TRU-015, conflict with the rights of others, including Genentech intellectual property rights of which we are aware, we may not be able to manufacture or market our product candidates, which could have a material adverse effect on us and on our collaboration agreement with Wyeth. Our commercial success will depend in part on not infringing the patents or violating the proprietary rights of third parties. We are aware of intellectual property, including European patent No. EP-B-1176981, in which Genentech has an ownership interest with claims directed to the second medical use of an anti-CD20 antibody for treatment of RA. On August 8, 2006, we filed an opposition to this patent raising objections as to its validity. We cannot assure you we will be successful in opposing the grant of Genentech’s patent. Subsequent to the submission of our opposition, other parties filed oppositions to the Genentech patent prior to August 30, 2006, including MedImmune, Inc., Genmab A/S, Centocor, Inc., Glaxo Group Limited, Serono S.A., and Wyeth. We believe these additional opposition filings will not have a negative effect on our opposition. Final resolution of the opposition proceedings will likely take a number of years. In the meantime, the existence of opposition proceedings does not preclude Genentech from attempting to enforce its patent against third parties, including us and Wyeth. In addition to its opposition, Glaxo Group Limited filed an action in the United Kingdom to revoke the U.K. counterpart of EP-B-1176981. Wyeth also initiated a revocation action. If the Genentech patent is not held invalid or limited in scope, and if our activities are determined to be covered by the patent, we cannot assure you that Genentech would be willing to grant us or Wyeth a license on terms we or they would consider commercially reasonable, if at all. As a consequence, we and Wyeth could be prevented from manufacturing and marketing TRU-015 for the treatment of RA in the designated and extended states of the European Patent Convention where the patent is validated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. The Genentech European patent claims the benefit of priority to two U.S. provisional patent applications that are unpublished and the status of which will remain confidential unless a U.S. patent or patent application claiming priority to the provisional patent applications publishes. In the event any such corresponding U.S. patent issues, and if our activities are determined to be covered by such a patent, we cannot assure you that Genentech would be willing to grant us or Wyeth a license on terms we or they would consider commercially reasonable, if at all, which could prevent us from manufacturing and marketing TRU-015 for the treatment of RA in the United States and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, and our collaboration with Wyeth. Issued patents held by others may limit our ability to develop commercial products. All issued patents are entitled to a presumption of validity under U.S. laws. If we need licenses to such patents to permit us to manufacture, develop, or market our product candidates we may be required to pay significant fees or royalties, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain such licenses. Competitors or third parties may obtain patents that may cover subject matter we use in (a) developing the technology required to bring our products to market, (b) producing our products, or (c) treating patients with our products. We know that others have filed patent applications in various jurisdictions that relate to several areas in which we are developing products. Some of these patent applications have already resulted in patents and some are still pending. We may be required to alter our processes or product candidates, pay licensing fees, or cease activities. Certain parts of our SMIPtm product technology, including the current expression system responsible for the production of the recombinant proteins used in our product candidates and certain nucleic acids, originated from third-party sources. These third-party sources include academic, government, and other research laboratories, as well as the public domain. If use of technology incorporated into or used to produce our product candidates is challenged, or if our processes or product candidates conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us in Europe, the United States, and elsewhere claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. Additionally, it is not possible to predict with certainty what patent claims may issue from pending applications. In the United States, for example, patent prosecution can proceed in secret prior to issuance of a patent. As a result, third parties may be able to obtain patents with claims relating to our product candidates which they could attempt to assert 24 Table of Contents against us. Further, as we develop our products, third parties may assert that we infringe the patents currently held or licensed by them and we cannot predict the outcome of any such action. There has been significant litigation in the biotechnology industry over patents and other proprietary rights, and if we become involved in any litigation it could consume a substantial portion of our resources, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license, grant cross-licenses, and pay substantial royalties in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We cannot assure you we would prevail in any legal action or that any license required under a third-party patent would be made available on acceptable terms, if at all. Ultimately, we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations as a result of claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If we are unable to obtain, maintain, and enforce our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively or operate profitably. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our patents and other proprietary rights, and will depend in large part on our ability to: • obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for our technology, processes, and product candidates; • enforce patents once issued and defend those patents if their enforceability is challenged; • preserve trade secrets; and • operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. We currently have two issued patents, one in the United States and one in China. In addition, we have 28 U.S. and 154 foreign pending patent applications, although there is no guarantee that any of these patent applications will issue or grant. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by any of our patents, if issued, or our pending patent applications; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents or, if issued, these patents may not be sufficient to protect our technology or provide us with a basis for commercially viable products, and may not provide us with any competitive advantages; • if our pending applications issue as patents, they may be challenged by third parties as not infringed, invalid, or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws; • if issued, the patents under which we hold rights may not be valid or enforceable; or • we may develop additional proprietary technologies that are not patentable and that may not be adequately protected through trade secrets, if, for example, a competitor were to independently develop duplicative, similar, or alternative technologies. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms is highly uncertain and involves many complex legal and technical issues. There is no clear policy involving the breadth of claims allowed in patents or the degree of protection afforded under patents. Although we believe our potential rights under patent applications provide a competitive advantage, we cannot assure you that patent applications owned by or licensed to us will result in patents being issued or that, if issued, the patents will give us an advantage over 25 Table of Contents competitors with similar technology, nor can we assure you that we can obtain, maintain, and enforce all ownership and other proprietary rights necessary to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Even if any or all of our patent applications issue as patents, others may challenge the validity, inventorship, ownership, enforceability, or scope of our patents or other technology used in or otherwise necessary for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. Further, we cannot assure you that any such challenge would not be successful. Moreover, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents to prevent infringement or to otherwise protect our proprietary rights can be substantial. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use the challenged technologies without payment to us. We cannot assure you that our patents, if issued, will not be infringed or successfully avoided through design innovation. Intellectual property lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources, even if the outcome were successful. In addition, there is a risk that a court would decide that our patents, if issued, are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of a patent were upheld, a court would refuse to stop the other party from using the inventions, including on the ground that its activities do not infringe that patent. If any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition, and operating results would be materially adversely affected. In addition to the intellectual property and other rights described above, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, trademarks, and confidential information, particularly when we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or available. Trade secrets are difficult to protect and we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information. In addition, we cannot assure you that the steps we take with employees, consultants, and advisors will provide effective protection of our confidential information or, in the event of unauthorized use of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of third parties, provide adequate or effective remedies or protection. We also will rely on current and future trademarks to establish and maintain recognized brands. If we fail to acquire and protect such trademarks, our ability to market and sell our products, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, would be materially adversely affected. For example, in November 2005, Merck KGaA filed a proceeding with the Office of Harmonisation of the Internal Market opposing our European registration of the trademark TRUBION and seeking to place certain restrictions on the identification of goods, services, and channels of trade description in our European trademark registration. Merck claims rights resulting from its prior trademark registration of TRIBION HARMONIS. We filed a response to the opposition and have commenced negotiations with Merck regarding the matter. We intend to pursue the opposition vigorously if negotiations are unsuccessful; however, if we are unable to effectively defend against the opposition, we may be prohibited from using the TRUBION trademark in certain European Union jurisdictions, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to promote the Trubion brand in those jurisdictions. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform as contractually required or otherwise expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We do not currently have the ability to conduct clinical trials and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators, and contract laboratories, to conduct our clinical trials. We have, in the ordinary course of business, entered into agreements with these third parties. Nonetheless, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory 26 Table of Contents requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended, or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. We currently rely on third-party manufacturers to supply our product candidates and will rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our product candidates in commercial quantities, which could delay or prevent the clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates We currently depend on Wyeth for the supply of TRU-015. We also currently depend on contract manufacturers for certain biopharmaceutical development and manufacturing services for TRU-016, our other current product candidate. Any disruption in production, inability of these third-party manufacturers to produce adequate quantities to meet our needs, or other impediments with respect to development or manufacturing could adversely affect our ability to successfully complete clinical trials, delay submissions of our regulatory applications, or adversely affect our ability to commercialize our product candidates in a timely manner, if at all. Our product candidates have not yet been manufactured for commercial use. If any of our product candidates becomes a product approved for commercial sale, in order to supply our or our collaborators’ commercial requirements for such an approved product, the third-party manufacturer may need to increase its manufacturing capacity, which may require the manufacturer to fund capital improvements to support the scale-up of manufacturing and related activities. The third-party manufacturer may not be able to successfully increase its manufacturing capacity for such an approved product in a timely or economic manner, if at all. If any manufacturer is unable to provide commercial quantities of such an approved product, we will have to successfully transfer manufacturing technology to a new manufacturer. Engaging a new manufacturer for such an approved product could require us to conduct comparative studies or utilize other means to determine bioequivalence of the new and prior manufacturers’ products, which could delay or prevent our ability to commercialize such an approved product. If any of these manufacturers is unable or unwilling to increase its manufacturing capacity or if we are unable to establish alternative arrangements on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, the development and commercialization of such an approved product may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Any inability to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities would seriously harm our business. Any manufacturer of our product candidates and approved products, if any, must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance, and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our product candidates and approved products, if any, may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state, and foreign regulatory requirements. We have little control over our manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to our manufacturers’ failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products, which would seriously harm our business. If we enter into additional strategic partnerships, such as our relationship with Wyeth, we may be required to relinquish important rights to and control over the development of our product candidates or otherwise be subject to terms unfavorable to us. If we enter into any strategic partnerships, we will be subject to a number of risks, including: • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our strategic partners devote to the development or commercialization of product candidates; • strategic partners may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding, terminate a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new version of a product candidate for clinical testing; • strategic partners may not pursue further development and commercialization of products resulting from the strategic partnering arrangement or may elect to discontinue research and development programs; 27 Table of Contents • strategic partners may not commit adequate resources to the marketing and distribution of any future products, limiting our potential revenues from these products; • disputes may arise between us and our strategic partners that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management’s attention and consumes resources; • strategic partners may experience financial difficulties; • strategic partners may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in a manner that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; • business combinations or significant changes in a strategic partner’s business strategy may also adversely affect a strategic partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; • strategic partners could independently move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and • strategic partners could terminate the arrangement or allow it to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our product candidates. Our relationship with Wyeth may have a negative effect on our ability to enter into beneficial relationships with third parties. In December 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Wyeth for the development and worldwide commercialization of TRU-015 and other therapeutics directed to CD20. We are also collaborating with Wyeth on the development and worldwide commercialization of certain other SMIPtm product candidates directed to a small number of targets other than CD20 that have been established pursuant to the agreement. Companies other than Wyeth that may be interested in developing products with us are likely to be less inclined to do so because of our relationship with Wyeth, or because of the perception that development programs that Wyeth does not participate in are less promising programs. If our ability to work with present or future strategic partners or collaborators is adversely affected as a result of our collaboration agreement with Wyeth, our business prospects may be limited and our financial condition may be adversely affected. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products. Any product candidate for which we receive regulatory approval, together with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, and advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued review and regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Even if regulatory approval of a product candidate is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product candidate may be marketed or on the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product candidate. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or their manufacture, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in: • restrictions on the products or manufacturing processes; • withdrawal of the products from the market; • voluntary or mandatory recalls; • fines; • suspension of regulatory approvals; • product seizures; or 28 Table of Contents • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we are slow or otherwise unable to adapt to changes in existing regulatory requirements, we may lose marketing approval for any products that may be approved in the future. Our product candidates may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, the commercial success of these product candidates will depend on, among other things, their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors, and other members of the medical community as a therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to competing products and treatments. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product that we may develop and commercialize will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; • availability, relative cost, and relative efficacy of alternative and competing treatments; • the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution strategy; • publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. If our product candidates do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payors, and other members of the medical community, our business, financial condition, and operating results would be materially adversely affected. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products internationally. We intend to have our product candidates marketed outside the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. To date, we have not filed for marketing approval of any of our product candidates and may not receive the approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates in any market. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing and data review. The time required to obtain foreign regulatory approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval, or may include different or additional risks. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other foreign countries or by the FDA. A failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in other jurisdictions, including approval by the FDA. The failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions could seriously harm our business. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our operations. Should third parties file patent applications, or be issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial 29 Table of Contents costs to us and an adverse decision as to the priority of our inventions. An unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding could require us to cease using the technology or to license rights from prevailing third parties. We cannot assure you that any prevailing party would offer us a license or that we could acquire any license made available to us on commercially acceptable terms. If any products we develop become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices, or healthcare reform initiatives, our business could be harmed. Our ability to commercialize any product candidate profitably will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for such product candidate and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, or private payors, and other organizations in the United States and internationally. Even if we succeed in bringing one or more product candidates to market, these products may not be considered cost-effective, and the amount reimbursed for any product may be insufficient to allow us to sell it profitably. Because our product candidates are in the early stages of development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage for newly approved products, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the product candidate is approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not mean that any product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale, and distribution. Increasingly, the third-party payors who reimburse patients, such as government and private payors, are requiring that companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the reimbursement we are able to obtain for any product we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our business could be harmed. We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health-care providers, pharmaceutical companies, or others selling our products. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our product candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. Although we currently have product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials for expenses or losses, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any or all expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for our product candidates in development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on products that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. 30 Table of Contents We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing, or commercializing products before, or more successfully, than we do. Our future success depends on our ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to the design, development, and commercialization of our product candidates. We expect any product candidate that we commercialize with our collaborative partners, or on our own, will compete with other products. TRU-015 Product Candidate. If approved for the treatment of RA, we anticipate that TRU-015 would compete with other marketed protein therapeutics for the treatment of RA, including Rituxan® (Genentech, Biogen Idec, and Roche), Orencia® (BMS), Enbrel® (Amgen and Wyeth), Remicade® (JNJ and Schering-Plough), and Humira® (Abbott). TRU-016 Product Candidate. If approved for the treatment of CLL or NHL, we anticipate that our TRU-016 product candidate would compete with other B-cell depleting therapeutics. Although we are not aware of any CD37-directed therapeutics in development or on the market, other biologic therapies are marketed for the treatment of CLL or NHL, or both, such as Rituxan®/Mabthera® (Genentech, Biogen Idec, and Roche), Zevalin® (Biogen Idec and Schering AG), Bexxar® (GSK), and Campath® (Genzyme and Schering AG). Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and personnel resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater commercial infrastructures than we have. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to: • design and develop products that are superior to other products in the market; • attract and retain qualified scientific, medical, product development, commercial and sales and marketing personnel; • obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our processes, product candidates and technologies; • operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties; • obtain required regulatory approvals; and • successfully collaborate with others in the design, development, and commercialization of new products. Established competitors may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop novel compounds that could make our product candidates obsolete. In addition, any new product that competes with a generic market-leading product must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability, and safety in order to overcome severe price competition and to be commercially successful. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow, and our financial condition and operating results will suffer. If we are unable to establish a sales and marketing infrastructure or enter into collaborations with partners to perform these functions, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates. We currently do not have any internal sales, marketing, or distribution capabilities. In order to commercialize any of our product candidates that are approved for commercial sale, we must either acquire or internally develop a sales, marketing, and distribution infrastructure or enter into collaborations with partners able to perform these services for us. In December 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Wyeth to develop and commercialize therapeutics directed to the CD20 protein and other targets. If we do not enter into collaborations with respect to product candidates not covered by the Wyeth collaboration, or if any or our product candidates are the subject of collaborations with partners that are not able to commercialize such product candidates, we will need to acquire or internally develop a sales, marketing, and distribution 31 Table of Contents infrastructure. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our product candidates without partners that are able to commercialize the product candidates include: • our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating a sales and marketing organization. If we are not able to partner with a third party able to commercialize our product candidates, or are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales, marketing, and distribution infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. We rely on highly skilled personnel, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain our operations or grow effectively. Our performance largely depends on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to develop, motivate, and retain qualified management, clinical, and scientific personnel for all areas of our organization. In the year ended December 31, 2007, we increased the total number of our full-time employees to 99. If we are unable to effectively train our newly enlarged workforce for any reason, we may not be able to implement our development and commercialization activities. If we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our personnel, our existing operations may suffer and we may be unable to grow effectively. We may fail to select or capitalize on the most scientifically, clinically, or commercially promising or profitable product candidates. We have limited technical, managerial, and financial resources to determine which of our product candidates should proceed to initial clinical trials, later-stage clinical development and potential commercialization. We may make incorrect determinations. Our decisions to allocate our research and development, management, and financial resources toward particular product candidates or therapeutic areas may not lead to the development of viable commercial products and may divert resources from better opportunities. Similarly, our decisions to delay or terminate drug development programs may also be incorrect and could cause us to miss valuable opportunities. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes contamination or injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the use of potentially harmful biological materials, as well as hazardous materials, chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling, or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any liability could exceed our resources. We do not maintain liability insurance coverage for our handling of biological or hazardous materials. We, the third parties that conduct clinical trials on our behalf, and the third parties that manufacture our product candidates are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials and waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. The failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in significant fines and work stoppages and may harm our business. 32 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility, and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit. The trading prices of many newly publicly traded companies are highly volatile, particularly companies such as ours that have limited operating histories. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate or decline. Since our initial public offering, which was completed in October 2006, the price of our common stock has ranged from an intra-day low of $5.84 to an intra-day high of $22.50. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following: • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced product candidates on a timely basis; • announcements by us or our collaborators or competitors of new commercial products, clinical progress or the lack thereof, changes in or terminations of relationships, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • any major change in our board or management; • quarterly variations in our operating results or those of our collaborators or competitors; • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and • political instability, natural disasters, war, and/or events of terrorism. In addition, the U.S. stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of trading companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the availability of research and reports that third-party industry or financial analysts publish about us. There are many large, publicly traded companies active in the biopharmaceutical industry, which may mean it will be less likely that we receive widespread analyst coverage. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2007, our executive officers, directors, current five percent or greater stockholders, and affiliated entities together beneficially owned approximately 85% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, have control over most matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Corporate action might be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us that other stockholders may view as beneficial. 33 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this annual report on Form 10-K, all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties. When we use words such as “may”, “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “believe,” “seek” and “estimate” or similar words, we are making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include information concerning our possible or assumed future business success or financial results. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements as to our expectations regarding: • the therapeutic and commercial potential of TRU-015, TRU-016, and other SMIPtm drug candidates; • the effectiveness of our custom drug assembly technology; • the ability of SMIPtm product candidates to be produced at large-scale in mammalian cell expression systems from readily available starting materials; • the benefits from our collaboration with Wyeth on our clinical development of TRU-015 and other therapeutics directed to CD20; • future clinical development programs and the timing thereof; • future clinical development plans; • the details of the clinical trials and the timing thereof; • the anticipated future size of the RA, SLE, CLL, and NHL markets; • the timing of regulatory applications and action; • payments and reimbursements we expect to receive; • intellectual property rights and defenses to patent infringement claims; • the extent to which our existing capital resources, together with interest thereon, will be sufficient to meet our financial obligations; • future capital needs and expenditures; • the adequacy of our current facilities to meet our near-term needs; and • the future impact of a sudden change in market interest rates on our operating results and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 34 Table of Contents 