ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following factors that may affect our business, future operating results and financial condition, as well as other information included in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. We have a limited operating history, our business model is new and evolving and our future operating results are unpredictable. We were formed in May 1999 and therefore have a limited operating history upon which to evaluate our operations and future prospects. There is little significant historical basis to assess how we will respond to competitive, economic or technological challenges. Our business and prospects must be considered in light of the risks and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of development. The success of our business model depends on our ability to attract new and retain existing customers and to efficiently generate leads from consumers visiting our web sites. Any failure to execute this strategy could harm our business. Our business model is relatively new and unproven and is still evolving. We expect that we will continue to increase our expenses, in particular within sales and marketing, as we seek to expand our business. We cannot assure you that our strategies for growth will be successful or that our revenues will increase sufficiently to maintain our current margins or profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Our revenues are unpredictable and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to changes in rates of customer adoption and retention, the cyclical nature of the real estate industry, variability in interest rates and other factors outside of our control. In addition, our expenses and revenues may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to, among other factors, the timing of sales and marketing campaigns. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our past operating results may not be good indicators of our future performance and should not be relied on to predict the future performance of our stock price. For example, we launched our JustListed.com business in January 2004 which led to rapid revenue growth. We do not expect that we will be able to sustain this revenue growth rate in future quarters as our business matures and the rate of customer growth declines. In addition, we 16 Table of Contents have recently entered the mortgage lead generation business and have also launched a real estate consumer Internet portal. We have limited experience in these areas and may not be successful. It is possible that in the future our operating results will not meet the expectations of investors, causing the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, companies that have experienced decreases in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. A securities class action lawsuit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. We may be unable to compete successfully with our current or future competitors. We operate in a highly competitive environment and expect that competition will continue to be intense. The barriers to entry in our industry are low, making it possible for current or new competitors to adopt certain aspects of our business model without great financial expense, thereby reducing our ability to differentiate our services. All of our services, including online lead generation, online prospect management, online real estate portal content and advertising, and customer coaching and training are provided separately by other companies, and it is possible that one or more of these companies, or a new market entrant, could adopt a business model that competes directly with us. Our current and potential competitors include: Traditional Sellers of Advertising to Real Estate and Mortgage Professionals. We compete with traditional sellers of advertising, including local and regional newspapers, local magazines, and “rack” publications advertising homes for sale, for a share of the marketing dollars that residential real estate and mortgage professionals spend to attract prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers. Real estate and mortgage professionals may continue to view traditional advertising sources as the most effective means to reach prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers, leading to a lack of demand for our services. If we fail to persuade these customers to spend marketing dollars on our services, our business and operating results will suffer. Internet Media Companies. We compete with large Internet media companies, such as AOL, Google, MSN and Yahoo! for real estate and mortgage professionals’ marketing dollars. Some of the large Internet media companies are currently developing enhanced search products, including search products that would allow a user to find real estate or mortgage related search results in a specific city or geographic area. If their existing or new products become a cost-effective way for real estate and mortgage professionals to generate leads, these products may become an attractive alternative to our services, which could decrease demand for our services or increase our online lead generation costs. Additionally, these companies, on which we rely in part for our own advertising and lead generation needs, may develop or acquire products and services that compete directly with our services. Online Companies Focused on Real Estate and Mortgage Lending. We compete with a variety of online marketing and lead generation companies that focus exclusively on the real estate and mortgage industry. Such companies include Homes.com, Homestore, ServiceMagic and IAC/InterActiveCorp and its LendingTree business, which includes Domania.com and RealEstate.com, all of which have established web sites and compete or may compete for real estate and mortgage professionals’ advertising expenditures. HomeStore, one of the largest Internet real estate sites, has recently entered into the lead generation business. In addition, Richard Barton, the founder of Expedia.com and a previous director of IAC, has recently announced the formation of a startup company named Zillow, that will focus on the residential real estate market. In addition, consolidation driven by online service providers involved in the real estate and mortgage industry and Internet media companies could create more potent competitors. For instance, Classified Ventures recently acquired HomeGain, an online real estate lead generation company. Increased consolidation among online service providers in the residential real estate and mortgage industry could result in additional competitors that have significantly greater resources or greater brand recognition than we do, and that are able to provide a broader and more attractive suite of services to real estate and mortgage professionals than we can. 17 Table of Contents Real Estate and Mortgage Brokerage Firms. Some real estate and mortgage brokerage firms currently offer services similar to ours, and in the future these firms and other brokerage firms may become direct competitors; for example, Re/Max, a large real estate franchisor, recently announced that it was entering the lead generation business. A significant percentage of residential real estate and mortgage professionals are affiliated with large national or regional brokerage firms. If these brokerage firms, or smaller independent brokerage firms, decide to provide their agents with a service offering or suite of service offerings similar to ours at a lower cost or free of charge, or if they attempt to restrict the ability of their agents to use our services, demand for our services by real estate and mortgage professionals could decrease. Many of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, greater technological capabilities and greater financial, sales, marketing and human resources than we do. These competitors could: • develop services that are as effective as or superior to our services or that achieve greater market acceptance than do our services; • devote greater resources to marketing or selling their services; • make more attractive offers to potential customers or otherwise more effectively attract real estate and mortgage professionals; • withstand price competition more successfully than we can; • provide services similar to ours at no additional cost by bundling them with their other product and service offerings; • make more attractive offers to existing and potential employees or independent contractors than we do; • more effectively negotiate third-party arrangements; and • take advantage of investments, acquisitions or other opportunities more readily than we can. Any efforts to expand into new lines of business may not be successful, or may take longer than expected to complete. We are expanding our lead generation business into the residential mortgage services industry, in which we have only limited experience. As part of this expansion, we purchased The Loan Page, Inc., a small mortgage lead generator located in San Francisco. In addition, we recently launched HomePages, an Internet web site that combines aerial maps, in-depth neighborhood information, and nationwide home listings in one integrated web site. These initiatives, and other acquisitions and initiatives we may pursue may not be successful or the anticipated benefits may take longer to realize than expected. Also, we have little or no experience in these areas which may result in errors in the conception, structure or implementation of a strategy to take advantage of available opportunities. We cannot assure you that any new products, acquisitions or other expansion efforts will be successful. Any failure to increase the number of our customers would harm our business. Our growth depends in large part on increasing the number of our customers. However, prospective customers may not be familiar with our services and may be accustomed to using traditional methods of advertising and marketing. To attract more customers, we must convince real estate and mortgage professionals to spend a portion of their advertising and marketing budgets on our services. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing to acquire more customers or that our future sales efforts will be effective. If we reach the point at which we have attempted to sell our services to the majority of residential real estate customers and/or mortgage customers, our ability to further increase the number of customers could be limited. We may not know or be able to estimate when we have reached this point because we currently cannot reliably estimate the total number of residential real estate agents and/or mortgage customers that are actively engaged in the industry during any particular period. 18 Table of Contents Any failure to retain customers could harm our business. Our ability to retain customers will depend, in part, on our ability to generate leads from prospective home buyers, sellers and mortgage consumers in quantities demanded by our customers. In addition, our success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing services, develop new technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of customers, respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices in a timely manner and on a cost effective basis. Our real estate customer contracts and many of our mortgage customer contracts require us to deliver a guaranteed minimum number of leads per month to each customer. We occasionally fail to deliver the number of leads we are required to deliver to a customer in a given month. For example, during the quarter ended December 31, 2005, we were unable to deliver approximately 7.0% of our total guaranteed lead obligations to customers. Our estimated obligation for underdelivered leads at December 31, 2005 was approximately $0.3 million. If we regularly fail to deliver the number of leads we are required to deliver to a customer, that customer will likely become dissatisfied with our services. In addition, if we do not maintain adequate technical support levels, or continue to improve the ease of use, functionality and features of our Market Leader prospect management system, customer coaching and training offerings, or if customers are dissatisfied with the quality of the leads that we provide, our customer may choose not to extend their contracts for our services. Agents remain customers typically only for a limited period of time, and we have limited ability to predict how long agents will remain customers. Our customer contracts typically have an initial term of twelve months, with automatic one-month extensions unless terminated by either party. Some customers have decided not to extend their contracts due to their inability to convert the leads we have provided into closed transactions or dissatisfaction with our services. Our average monthly churn rate for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 was 7.2%, compared to 5.9% for the quarter ended December 31, 2004. We calculate “average monthly churn” by dividing the number of core customers who cancel during the quarter by the average core customers in the quarter, divided by the number of months in the quarter. We cannot accurately predict how long agents or mortgage professionals will remain customers. If our churn rate increases, our revenue will decline and our business could suffer. Decreases in customer acquisition or retention may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. The effect of significant decreases in the number of new and active customers may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Much of the revenue we report in each quarter is from agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a decline in new customer contracts or an increase in cancellations in any one quarter will not necessarily be fully reflected in the revenue reported until the following quarter and may negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure in a timely manner to reflect these reduced revenues. We have experienced rapid growth which we may not be able to successfully manage. We have experienced rapid growth in our revenues, expenses and employee headcount. In addition to adding a number of senior individuals to our management team, our overall employee base has grown from 266 employees as of December 31, 2004 to 507 employees as of December 31, 2005. Further, we have recently opened a new facility in Yakima, Washington, which is our first location other than our corporate headquarter. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. To manage the anticipated continued growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to further expand our finance, accounting, administrative, sales and operations staff. We cannot assure you that management will be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business could be harmed. 19 Table of Contents Acquisitions we may undertake may be unsuccessful and may divert our management’s attention and consume significant resources. We may selectively acquire other businesses, product lines or technologies. For example, we have recently acquired The Loan Page, Inc., a mortgage lead generation company. The successful execution of an acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and, if necessary, to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing. Acquisitions, including the acquisition of The Loan Page, Inc., involve numerous risks, including the following: difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses; entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions; dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners; insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; reduction or replacement of the sales of existing services by sales of products or services from acquired lines of business; responsibility for the liabilities of acquired businesses; inability to maintain our internal standards, controls, procedures and policies; and potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. In addition, if we finance or otherwise complete acquisitions by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders may be diluted. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and we cannot assure you that our acquisitions will be successful. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquired businesses could harm our business. We continue to evaluate our system of internal controls over financial reporting and may be required to make enhancements where appropriate, which may require significant resources. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We have implemented changes to our internal procedures to satisfy the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which require a company’s management and its auditors to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal controls. We are required to continue to evaluate and, where appropriate, enhance our policies, procedures and internal controls. Implementing any necessary changes may take a significant amount of time, money, and management resources and may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and other personnel. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time and as our business evolves, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. Given the potential significance of resources required for compliance, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We rely almost entirely on advertising to generate leads for customers. We rely heavily on advertising to attract consumers to our web sites and to generate leads. We advertise primarily through online media and television commercials. Risks Associated with Online Advertising. We rely on online media to attract a significant percentage of the consumers visiting our web sites. Prices for online advertising have increased as a result of increased demand for advertising inventory, which has caused our expenses to increase and result in lower margins. Our advertising contracts with online search engines are typically short-term. If one or more search engines on which we rely for advertising modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could increase, the number of leads we generate could decrease and our revenues or margins could decline. Risks Associated with Television Advertising. Television advertising rates depend on a number of factors, including the strength of the national economy and regional economies and the strength of certain industries that advertise frequently. Advertising rates are also subject to cyclical and seasonal fluctuations. If television advertising prices increase significantly, in the absence of more efficient ways to generate leads, our marketing expenses will also increase, which would harm our results of operations. 20 Table of Contents As the number of leads that we are required to deliver has increased, we have increased the levels of advertising to meet those requirements. We cannot assure you that increases in advertising will result in increases in leads. If the effectiveness of our advertising declines, our business will suffer. Our business depends on the real estate industry, which is cyclical. The residential real estate and mortgage markets historically have been subject to economic cycles. An economic slowdown or recession, adverse tax policies, lower availability of credit, increased interest rates, increased unemployment, lower consumer confidence, lower wage and salary levels, war or terrorist attacks or the public perception that any of these conditions may occur could decrease demand for residential real estate or mortgages. Trends in the real estate industry and mortgage business are unpredictable; therefore, our operating results, to the extent they reflect changes in the broader real estate industry and mortgage business, may be subject to significant fluctuations. A sustained increase in interest rates could result in decreased use of our services by prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers and real estate and mortgage professionals. The amount of a homeowner’s monthly mortgage payment is significantly dependent on interest rate levels. Interest rates have begun to rise from their recent historical lows and many economists predict that interest rates will continue to rise in the near future. Increases in interest rates could make housing less affordable and negatively affect the housing and/or purchase money mortgage markets and could also lessen credit demand and negatively affect the mortgage refinancing market. These increases could reduce consumer interest in the services offered through our web sites. A decrease in demand for residential real estate or a decrease in housing affordability could result in a decrease in the number of active real estate and mortgage professionals and a decrease in the amount these individuals are willing to spend on services such as ours. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims. Other companies, including our current or potential competitors, could make claims against us alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. We have been subject to and expect to continue to be subject to, claims regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle, and could significantly divert management’s attention from other business concerns. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our technologies and content may not be able to withstand third-party claims or rights against their use. If we were unable to successfully defend against such claims, we may have to pay damages, stop using the technology or content found to be in violation of a third party’s rights, seek a license for the infringing technology or content, or develop alternative non-infringing technology or content. If we are required to obtain a license for the infringing technology or content, it may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, developing alternative non-infringing technology or content could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology or content for any infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our service offerings. Any of these results could reduce our ability to compete effectively and harm our business. Our trademarks are important to our business. Other companies may own, obtain or claim trademarks that could prevent, limit or interfere with our use of trademarks. If we were unable to use these trademarks, our business would be harmed and we would need to devote substantial resources toward developing different brand identities. 21 Table of Contents Our business depends on the continued adoption and use of the Internet and email by real estate and mortgage professionals. Our business model relies on the adoption and ongoing use of the Internet and email by real estate and mortgage professionals. We believe many real estate and mortgage professionals still rely primarily on other forms of communication, such as telephones, mobile phones, fax machines and mail service, to communicate with clients. A broader population of real estate and mortgage professionals must adopt the Internet and email in their businesses for us to significantly expand our business and increase our revenues. Prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers may be reluctant to sign up for our services due to general privacy concerns. Concern among consumers regarding our use of personal information collected on our web sites, such as email addresses, home addresses and geographic preferences, could keep them from using our web sites and thereby reduce the number of leads we generate. Industry-wide events or events with respect to our web sites, including misappropriation of third-party information, security breaches, or changes in industry standards, regulations or laws could deter people from using the Internet or our web sites to conduct transactions that involve the transmission of confidential information, which could harm our business. We collect personally identifiable information from prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers and evaluate the use of our Market Leader prospect management system by customers, which could result in additional costs or claims. We rely on the collection, use and disclosure of personally identifiable information from prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers and from customers to conduct our business. We disclose our information collection and dissemination practices in a published privacy statement on our web sites, which we may modify from time to time to meet operational needs or changes in the law or industry best practices. We may be subject to legal claims, government action and damage to our reputation if we act or are perceived to be acting inconsistently with the terms of our privacy statement, customer expectations or the law. In addition, concern among real estate and mortgage professionals or potential home buyers or sellers and mortgage consumers about our privacy practices could keep them from using our services and require us to alter our business practices or incur significant expenses to educate them about how we use this information. In accordance with our privacy policy, in certain instances we have provided personally identifiable information about potential home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers to third parties for purposes of analyzing our audience demographics, audience size and other audience characteristics, such as the pages web users spend the most time viewing on our site, the times of day or night that users visit our site, and the order in which users navigate through our site. The value of our services could be diminished if anti-spam software filters out emails we send. Our Market Leader prospect management system includes a feature that automatically sends out personalized email messages to prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers on behalf of customers. In addition, we send a large amount of email to real estate and mortgage professionals as part of our customer acquisition strategy, some of which is unsolicited. In the past, anti-spam software used by Internet service providers and personal computer users has filtered out these email messages as unsolicited email, or “spam.” If this problem persists or becomes more pervasive, the value of our Market Leader system to customers, and our ability to attract new customers, could be reduced, both of which would harm our business. In addition, it is possible that we may not currently or in the future fully comply with anti-spam legislation, and any failure to comply with such laws could result in penalties or damage our reputation. 22 Table of Contents Our HomePages and JustListed products rely on information from real estate multiple listing services provided by third parties that we do not control. Our HomePages website combines aerial maps, in-depth neighborhood information, and for sale home listings, including listings in most of the major metropolitan markets in the United States, in one integrated web site. In addition, in selected markets, including most of the major metropolitan markets in the United States, we provide JustListed agent customers with a feature that allows them to automatically email their prospective clients information about newly available homes that meet the prospective clients’ criteria. The for sale home listings information provided by the HomePages website and via the automated email feature of JustListed is supplied only in markets in which our subsidiary, Soar Solutions, has a relationship with the local multiple listing service, or MLS, and in some cases, additionally with the agents’ real estate broker. Listings must be sent manually by an agent customer in markets in which Soar Solutions does not have MLS relationships. Soar Solutions’ agreements with MLSs to display property listings have short terms, or can be terminated by the MLSs, or, in some cases, the broker, with little notice. The success of our HomePages website depends substantially on our continued ability to provide for sale home listings to consumers and to expand listings in markets in which it is not currently available. Our JustListed service depends in part on our continued ability to provide agent customers with an automated listing email tool and our ability to expand listings in markets in which it is not currently available. Our inability to supply this information will harm our business and operating results. If we fail to comply with the various laws and regulations that govern the real estate industry and mortgage industry, our business may be harmed. Our business is governed by various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the real estate industry, including the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA), the Fair Housing Act, state and local real estate and mortgage broker licensing laws, federal and state laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive acts and practices, and federal and state advertising laws. We may not have always been and may not always be in compliance with each of these requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, indemnification liability to contract counterparties, class action lawsuits, administrative enforcement actions and civil and criminal liability. Due to the geographic scope of our operations and the nature of the services we provide, we may be required to obtain and maintain real estate and/or mortgage brokerage licenses in certain states in which we operate. In connection with such licenses, we are required to designate individual licensed brokers of record. We cannot assure you that we are, and will remain at all times, in full compliance with state real estate or mortgage licensing laws and regulations and we may be subject to fines or penalties in the event of any non-compliance. If in the future a state agency were to determine that we are required to obtain a real estate or mortgage brokerage license in that state in order to receive payments or commissions from real estate and mortgage professionals, or if we lose the services of a designated broker, we may be subject to fines or legal penalties or our business operations in that state may be suspended until we obtain the license or replace the designated broker. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may limit our ability to expand into new markets, offer new products or continue to operate in one or more of our current markets. Changes in real estate and mortgage laws and regulations and the rules of industry organizations could restrict our activities, significantly increase our compliance costs and result in increased competition. States, regulatory organizations and industry participants could enact legislation, regulatory or other policies in the future that could restrict our activities or significantly increase our compliance costs. Moreover, the provision of real estate-related or mortgage services over the Internet is a new and evolving business, and legislators, regulators and industry participants may advocate additional legislative or regulatory initiatives governing the conduct of our business. If new laws or regulations are adopted, or regulatory interpretations are changed, we may be subject to additional legal requirements and incur significant compliance costs, and we could be precluded from certain activities. In addition, federal banking regulators have proposed to include real 23 Table of Contents estate brokerage as an activity that is “financial in nature,” a definitional change that would permit major financial institutions to enter the real estate brokerage business. Because national banks are already explicitly permitted to engage in web-linking activities, if this proposal is finalized, we could face competition from significant, well-capitalized competitors. We may be limited in the way in which we market our business or generate revenue by federal law prohibiting referral fees in real estate or mortgage transactions. RESPA generally prohibits the payment or receipt of fees or any other thing of value for the referral of business related to a residential real estate settlement service, including real estate and mortgage brokerage services. RESPA also prohibits fee shares or splits or unearned fees in connection with the provision of residential real estate settlement services. Notwithstanding these prohibitions, RESPA expressly permits payments pursuant to cooperative brokerage and referral arrangements or agreements between real estate agents and brokers. In addition, RESPA permits payments for goods or facilities furnished or for services actually performed, so long as those payments bear a reasonable relationship to the market value of the goods or facilities furnished or the services performed, excluding the value of any referrals that may be provided in connection with such goods, facilities or services. Failure to comply with RESPA may result in, among other things, administrative enforcement actions, class action lawsuits, and civil and criminal liability. There has been limited guidance by the appropriate federal regulator or the courts regarding the applicability of RESPA to online marketing relationships for real estate or mortgage services, such as those we provide. Nonetheless, RESPA may restrict our ability to enter into marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties, particularly to the extent that such arrangements may be characterized as involving payments for the referral of residential real estate settlement service business. We depend on key personnel and cannot assure you that these employees will continue to stay with us. We depend on our executive officers as well as key sales, technology and other personnel. We employ our executives and key employees on an at-will basis, even if they have employment contracts with us. Furthermore, although we have purchased a key-person life insurance policy for our Chief Executive Officer, we have not purchased key-person life insurance policies for any of our other executive officers or key personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense in our industry, and the loss of substantial number of qualified employees, or an inability to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees required for the expansion of our activities, could harm our business. We rely on our sales force to sell our services and increase revenue. Failure to attract, motivate and retain qualified sales personnel may harm our business. Our sales force has grown rapidly since inception and we expect our sales force to continue to expand as our business grows. We have high productivity standards for our sales personnel, which in the past has resulted in relatively high turnover. This turnover has required us to expend a substantial amount of time and money to replace sales persons as we expand our business. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense. Any failure to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified sales personnel could impair our ability to generate new customers, which would harm our business. Our business could be harmed by the actions of third parties over whom we have little or no control. Prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers could make a claim against us for the actions of a customer over whom we have little or no control. We do not conduct any due diligence or background checks on new customers or seek information regarding their credentials. We may be liable for content provided by customers that is posted on or disseminated through our web sites. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover us for these liabilities, and, to the extent not covered by insurance, these liabilities could reduce our margins and harm our business. 24 Table of Contents Our brand could be harmed if customers do not provide quality service to prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers. We rely on customers to promote our brand by providing high-quality service to prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers. We have little control over the activities of customers. If customers do not provide prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers with high-quality service, or if they use the functionality of our Market Leader System to send unwanted email to prospective home buyers or sellers, our brand value and our ability to generate leads may diminish. Our operating results may be subject to seasonality and may vary significantly among quarters during a calendar year. We are subject to seasonal fluctuations in advertising rates and lead generation. Changing consumer behavior at various times throughout the year affects our advertising expenses. Television advertising is generally more expensive in the fourth calendar quarter in connection with the holiday season. While individual markets vary, real estate transaction activity tends to progressively increase from January through the summer months, and then gradually slows over the last quarter of the calendar year. The real estate industry generally experiences decreased activity toward the end of the year, which may result in slower lead generation and lower growth rates. In addition, we have recently entered into the mortgage lead generation business and do not have enough experience to ascertain whether or not there are seasonality effects in that business. To date, our quarterly revenue growth has diluted any seasonality effects; however, seasonality may have a more pronounced effect on our operating results in the future. If seasonality occurs, investors may be unable to predict our annual operating results based on a quarter-to-quarter comparison of our operating results as our business matures. Third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or develop similar technology independently. We currently rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality procedures to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, the value of our services could be diminished and our business may suffer. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology and on our continuing use of our trademarks. We hold one registered trademark and have sought registration for a number of additional trademarks. We have not sought registration for any copyrights. We have not been issued any patents but we have six pending patent applications. Accordingly, our intellectual property position is more vulnerable than it otherwise would be if it were protected by issued patents, copyrights or additional registered trademarks. We may not receive approval of our various trademark or patent applications, and any trademarks or patents we may be granted may be successfully challenged by others or invalidated. If our trademark or patent applications are not approved or if our trademarks or patents are invalidated, our use of them could be restricted unless we enter into arrangements with these third parties, which might not be possible on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We regard substantial elements of our web sites, software tools and applications and underlying technology as proprietary. Despite our precautionary measures, third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or may develop similar technology independently. We may not be able to detect such infringements or may lose any competitive advantage in the market before we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies substantially similar to ours. Unauthorized parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our technology. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Any legal action that we may bring to protect our proprietary information could be unsuccessful and expensive and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and 25 Table of Contents scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses are uncertain and evolving, and we cannot assure you of the future viability or value of any of our proprietary rights. We may not be able to protect the web site addresses that are important to our business. Our web site addresses, or domain names, are important to our business. However, the regulation of domain names is subject to change. We may not be able to obtain or maintain relevant domain names for all the areas of our business. It also may be difficult for us to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to ours, that infringe our trademarks or that otherwise decrease the value of our brands. Increased government regulation of the Internet and claims under state consumer protection laws could force us to change the manner in which we conduct our business or result in monetary fines or increased costs. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet could adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. In addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on us. Laws and regulations directly applicable to communications or commerce over the Internet are becoming more prevalent. In addition, laws applicable to the Internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws, such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation, apply to the Internet. Changes in Internet laws and regulations could lead to situations in which we are considered to “operate” or “do business” in states where customers conduct their business, resulting in potential claims or regulatory action. If we are required to comply with new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these regulations, our business could be harmed. We may be subject to claims under state consumer protection statutes if our agent customers are dissatisfied with the quality of our leads, customer service, training programs or contract cancellation policies. These claims could result in monetary fines or require us to change the manner in which we conduct our business, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any of these types of claims, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming, could harm our reputation and could be expensive to litigate or settle. Changes in government regulation of advertising and customer solicitation could affect our business. We rely on various marketing channels, such as email and other telecommunications means, to reach real estate and mortgage professionals and prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers. The laws governing marketing and advertising continue to evolve and we may be subject to restrictions that limit our ability to continue to operate or expand our business and result in legal claims or government action. For example, several jurisdictions have recently proposed or adopted privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email, commonly known as “spam,” and that impose significant monetary penalties for violations. One of these laws, the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM, became effective in the United States on January 1, 2004. CAN-SPAM imposes complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with sending commercial email. The language of CAN-SPAM contains ambiguities. In addition, certain implementing rules have not yet been promulgated, and key provisions of CAN-SPAM have yet to be interpreted by the courts. Depending on how it is interpreted, CAN-SPAM may impose burdens on our email marketing practices and affect features of our Market Leader system and other services we offer or may offer. In addition, states continue to pass legislation regulating email communications and Internet advertising. Some provisions of these laws are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by the courts. These laws may adversely affect our ability to market our services to real estate industry participants in a cost-effective manner and the violation of these laws may result in penalties or damage our reputation. 26 Table of Contents Our sales activities are or may in the future be subject to laws regulating telemarketing, which could subject us to penalties or limit our ability to market our services. Both federal and state laws regulate the practice of telemarketing. All 50 states have enacted some form of telemarketing law. In particular, the federal government and a significant number of states have implemented “do not call” lists. In addition, a number of states require telemarketers to register with the state and post a bond, prohibit automated systems and recorded messages, impose disclosure requirements upon sales calls and require written sales contracts for certain telemarketing transactions. We are subject to certain of these laws, and our failure to register in a jurisdiction where we are required to do so could subject us to penalties, limit our ability to market our services and hamper our ability to enforce contracts in these jurisdictions. Any failure of our technology to perform satisfactorily could result in lost revenue, damage to our reputation and expenditure of significant resources. Our technology is relatively new and complex and may in the future be subject to errors, defects or performance problems. In addition, we may encounter problems when we update our technology to expand and enhance its capabilities. Our technology may malfunction or suffer from defects that become apparent only after further use. Furthermore, our services could be rendered unreliable or be perceived as unreliable by customers or prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers. In such instances, we would need to expend significant resources to address these problems, and may nonetheless be unable to adequately remedy these problems. These problems could result in lost revenue and damage to our reputation. Sustained or repeated system failures could significantly impair our operations and lead to customer dissatisfaction. The continuous and uninterrupted performance of our systems is critical to our success. Our operations depend on our ability to protect these systems against damage from fire, power loss, water, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, viruses, vandalism and other malicious acts and similar unexpected adverse events. Customers and prospective home buyers and sellers and mortgage consumers may become dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide our services to them. Our services substantially depend on systems provided by third parties, over whom we have little control. Interruptions in our services could result from the failure of telecommunications providers and other third parties to provide the necessary data communications capacity in the time frame required. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, located at our headquarters in Kirkland, Washington and at a co-location facility operated by a third party in Kent, Washington. We depend on these third-party providers of Internet communication services to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. We also depend on Internet service providers that provide access to our services. Any disruption in the Internet access provided by third-party providers or any failure of third-party providers to handle higher volumes of user traffic could harm our business. Our reputation and customer service offerings may be harmed by security breaches. Unauthorized computer programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network security from time to time. A hacker who penetrates our network security could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We also may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could adversely affect our systems and harm our business. The state of California requires that customers who are residents of California be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of their personal financial account or other information. Other states are considering such “notice” laws. In addition, other public disclosure laws may require that material security breaches be reported. If such notice is required in the future, our business and reputation could be harmed. 27 Table of Contents If we do not have access to additional funds on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue to expand our business or service offerings. To pursue our current and future business plans, we may choose to seek additional funding through public or private financings, including equity financings, and through other arrangements. Poor financial results, unanticipated expenses or unanticipated opportunities that require financial commitments could give rise to additional financing requirements sooner than we expect. However, financing may be unavailable when we need it or may not be available on acceptable terms. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders would be reduced and these securities might have rights superior to those of our common stock. If we are unable to raise additional funds when we need them, we may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate expenditures for some of our operations or capital expenditures. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 