Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this annual report on Form 10-K as well as our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and investors in our common stock could lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our success depends on the success of our clinical product candidates, TRU-015, TRU-016, and SBI-087, and we cannot be certain that they will be safe or effective, complete clinical trials, receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. Although our lead product candidate, TRU-015, has completed a Phase 2b clinical trial for the treatment of RA, additional clinical trials would be required before we are able to submit a Biologic License Application, or BLA, to the FDA for approval. In addition, our Facet collaboration clinical candidate, TRU-016, and our Pfizer collaboration clinical candidate, SBI-087, commenced initial clinical testing in 2008 and even if we and Facet, in the case of TRU-016, or Pfizer, in the case of SBI-087, determine to proceed with further clinical testing, a number of additional clinical trials will be required before a BLA can be submitted to the FDA for product approval. 21 Table of Contents The regulatory approval process can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources. We are a party to a collaboration agreement with Pfizer pursuant to which Pfizer is responsible for regulatory approval of, and any subsequent commercialization of TRU-015 and SBI-087. Ultimate decision-making authority as to most matters within the collaboration, including development plans and timeline, is vested with Pfizer. Pfizer may not advance the development and commercialization of TRU-015 and SBI-087, or either of these product candidates as quickly as we would like, if at all. For example, Pfizer will determine whether to commence a Phase 3 study of TRU-015 for the treatment of RA after reviewing data from the ongoing Phase 2 SBI-087 RA study, in addition to final data from the ongoing Phase 2b TRU-015 (2203) RA study. Patient dosing in the Phase 2 SBI-087 RA study commenced in December 2009 and an interim data review is planned that we believe could occur in late 2010 or early 2011 and final data is anticipated at the end of 2011. In addition, prior to its acquisition by Pfizer, Wyeth had determined not to pursue TRU-015 for any oncology indications and discontinued the TRU-015 Phase 1/2 clinical trial for the treatment of non-Hodgkins’ lymphoma, or NHL, that it had initiated in December 2007. We are also party to a collaboration agreement with Facet pursuant to which we and Facet must jointly agree to all development and commercialization plans and timelines for TRU-016. Acting jointly, we and Facet may be unable to advance the development and commercialization of TRU-016 as quickly as we would, acting alone. Clinical trials required for FDA approval of TRU-015 for RA, SBI-087 for RA or SLE or TRU-016 for CLL and NHL may not be successfully completed. If required clinical trials are not completed or their results do not meet safety and efficacy thresholds required by the FDA, our product candidates will likely not receive regulatory approval. Even if any of these product candidates receive regulatory approval, the approved product candidate may never be successfully commercialized. If our product candidates do not receive regulatory approval or are not successfully commercialized, we may not be able to generate revenue, or become profitable, which would negatively affect our ability to continue operations. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we may be unable to develop our product candidates and we could be forced to share our rights to these product candidates with third parties on terms that may not be favorable to us. We need large amounts of capital to support our research and development efforts. We may seek to raise funds through additional strategic partnerships, by selling additional equity or debt securities, or both, or by incurring other indebtedness. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we will be prevented from pursuing research and development efforts or we may instead elect to enter into collaborations that could require us to share rights to our product candidates to a greater extent than we currently intend, which could harm our business prospects and financial condition. The sale of additional equity or equity-linked securities could result in the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock and could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights, and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. The capital markets have been experiencing disruption for more than 16 months. The scope and extent of this disruption in the capital markets could make it difficult or impossible to raise additional capital in public or private capital markets until conditions stabilize and appetite for additional investment grows. Whether or not the capital markets stabilize, future financing may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We have been engaged in designing and developing compounds and product candidates since 1999 and have not generated any product revenue to date. Our net losses were $29.2 million, $25.6 million and $23.3 million in the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $121.7 million. We expect our research and development expenses to increase in the future due to increased manufacturing and clinical development costs primarily related to TRU- 22 Table of Contents 016, our Facet collaboration clinical candidate, as well as the advancement of our preclinical programs, and to product candidate manufacturing costs. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial and increasing losses for the foreseeable future. We are uncertain when or if we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Failure to become and remain profitable would adversely affect the price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. Continued operating losses and depletion of our cash balance may also result in non-compliance with our existing debt covenants and may require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash to repay our debt. As of December 31, 2009, our outstanding indebtedness under agreements with financial debt covenants that could be affected by continued operating losses or our cash position totaled $8.3 million. In addition, our net operating loss carry forwards and credits were substantially exhausted as a result of the payments we received from Wyeth in January 2006 pursuant to our Pfizer collaboration agreement, and any remaining net operating loss carry forwards and credits may be subject to an annual limitation due to the “change in ownership” provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and similar state law provisions, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to reduce future tax expenses. We depend on our collaborative relationship with Pfizer to develop, manufacture, and commercialize TRU-015, SBI-087, and other selected product candidates. In October 2009, Pfizer completed its acquisition of Wyeth and Pfizer is now our collaboration partner for TRU-015 and SBI-087. We have no prior relationship with Pfizer and, as a result, we cannot predict how or whether Pfizer will proceed with the collaboration or the development of any of the collaboration product candidates. In addition to our collaboration agreement with Pfizer for the development and worldwide commercialization of TRU-015, SBI-087 and other therapeutics directed to CD20, we are also collaborating with Pfizer on the development and worldwide commercialization of certain other product candidates directed to a small number of targets other than CD20 that have been established pursuant to the agreement. Our ability to receive any significant revenue from our product candidates covered by the collaboration agreement depends on the efforts of Pfizer and on our ability to collaborate effectively. Any future payments, including royalties to us, will depend on the extent to which we and Pfizer advance product candidates through development and commercialization. Pfizer may terminate the collaboration relationship, in whole or in part, without cause, by giving 90 days’ written notice to us. Pfizer also has the right to terminate the agreement, on a target-by-target basis, upon 60 days’ written notice, if any safety or regulatory issue arises that would have a material adverse effect on Pfizer’s ability to develop, manufacture, or commercialize one or more product candidates. With respect to control over decisions and responsibilities, the collaboration agreement provides for a research committee and a CD20-directed therapy development committee consisting of representatives of Pfizer and us. Ultimate decision-making authority as to most matters within the collaboration, including development plans and timelines, however, is vested in Pfizer. Pfizer has the right to develop multiple product candidates against the targets licensed to it under our collaboration. Pfizer has begun clinical development of SBI-087, another CD20-directed therapy, for RA and is currently enrolling patients in a phase 1 trial for the evaluation of SBI-087 for SLE. Pfizer could decide to focus its resources on only one CD-20-directed therapy and, as a result, discontinue efforts to further develop TRU-015. For example, Pfizer will determine whether to commence a Phase 3 study of TRU-015 for the treatment of RA after reviewing data from the ongoing Phase 2 SBI-087 RA study, in addition to final data from the ongoing Phase 2b TRU-015 (2203) RA study. SBI-087 is at an earlier stage in clinical development than TRU-015 and a decision by Pfizer to develop SBI-087 instead of TRU-015 would therefore likely delay the potential commercialization of any product under our collaboration with Pfizer, which could adversely affect our business and cause the price of our common stock to decline. Pfizer may not develop and commercialize our product candidates as quickly as we would like, if at all. If Pfizer terminates the agreement or fails to fulfill its obligations under the agreement, we would need to obtain the capital necessary to fund the development and commercialization of our product candidates or enter into alternative arrangements with a third party. We could also become involved in disputes with Pfizer, which could lead to delays in or termination of our development and commercialization programs and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. If Pfizer terminates or breaches its agreement with us, or 23 Table of Contents otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, our collaboration product development programs would be substantially delayed and the chances of successfully developing or commercializing our collaboration product candidates would be materially and adversely affected. We depend on our collaborative relationship with Facet to develop, manufacture, and commercialize TRU-016 and other CD37-directed protein therapeutics. In August 2009, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Facet for the joint worldwide development and commercialization of TRU-016, our product candidate in Phase 1 clinical development for chronic lymphocytic leukemia, or CLL, and other CD37-directed protein therapeutics. Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, neither we nor Facet have the right to develop or commercialize protein therapeutics directed to CD37 outside of the collaboration. Our ability to receive funding for TRU-016 under the collaboration depends on our ability to collaborate effectively with Facet. Any future payments, including milestones payable to us, will depend on the extent to which we and Facet advance TRU-016 through development and commercialization. Facet may terminate the collaboration agreement without cause, and would not be obligated to pay us a termination fee if such a termination was more than 18 months after the beginning of the collaboration. Facet also has the right upon 90 days’ written notice to terminate the agreement for any uncured material breach by us. With respect to control over decisions and responsibilities, the collaboration agreement provides for a joint steering committee, or JSC, that must make decisions by consensus. The failure of the JSC to reach consensus on material aspects of the development or commercialization of TRU-016 would lead to dispute resolution by our and Facet’s chief executive officers, and potentially arbitration, any of which may delay the development of TRU-016, which may harm our business. Under certain circumstances, the parties have the right to opt-out of the collaboration or may be deemed to have opted-out of the collaboration. If Facet opts-out of the collaboration with respect to a product, then we would become responsible for all development and commercialization costs for that product and be obligated to pay Facet certain royalty payments upon the sale of that product. We are currently the lead manufacturing party for TRU-016 and if we opt-out of the collaboration and are the lead TRU-016 manufacturing party at that time, we would be obligated to continue to supply TRU-016 to Facet for up to 18 months. On March 9, 2010, Abbott Laboratories, or Abbott, announced a definitive agreement to purchase Facet. Abbott further announced that it expects the transaction to close in the second quarter of 2010, subject to certain conditions. We intend to continue to pursue the objectives in the approved development plan. If Facet opts-out of or terminates the agreement or fails to fulfill its obligations under the agreement, we would need to obtain the capital necessary to fully fund the development and commercialization of TRU-016 or enter into alternative arrangements with a third party. We could also become involved in disputes with Facet, which could lead to delays in or termination of our development and commercialization programs and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. If Facet terminates or breaches its agreement with us, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, our collaboration product development programs would be substantially delayed and the chances of successfully developing or commercializing our collaboration product candidates would be materially and adversely affected. We currently rely on third-party manufacturers to supply our product candidates for clinical trials and will rely on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our product candidates in commercial quantities, which could delay, prevent or increase the costs associated with the clinical development and future commercialization of our product candidates. We currently depend on Pfizer for the supply of TRU-015 and SBI-087. We also currently depend on contract manufacturers for certain biopharmaceutical development and manufacturing services for TRU-016, our Facet collaboration clinical candidate. Any disruption in production, inability of these third-party manufacturers to produce adequate quantities to meet our needs, or other impediments with respect to development or manufacturing could adversely affect our ability to successfully complete clinical trials, delay submissions of our regulatory applications, increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our ability to 24 Table of Contents commercialize our product candidates in a timely manner, if at all. For example, our commitments with Lonza for manufacturing TRU-016 expire in the second quarter of 2010 and we currently do not have any future manufacturing agreements at this time. We plan on negotiating for additional manufacturing capacity with Lonza during 2010. We may be unable to do so in a timely manner or on terms that are consistent with our existing agreements. If we are unable to negotiate for additional manufacturing capacity with Lonza, we will need to contract with other third-party manufacturers, which will result in additional costs and may cause delays in the future supply of TRU-016 and the clinical development of TRU-016. Our product candidates have not yet been manufactured for commercial use. If any of our product candidates becomes a product approved for commercial sale, in order to supply our or our collaborators’ commercial requirements for such an approved product, the third-party manufacturer may need to increase its manufacturing capacity, which may require the manufacturer to fund capital improvements to support the scale-up of manufacturing and related activities. The third-party manufacturer may not be able to successfully increase its manufacturing capacity for such an approved product in a timely or economic manner, if at all. If any manufacturer is unable to provide commercial quantities of such an approved product, we will have to successfully transfer manufacturing technology to a new manufacturer. Engaging a new manufacturer for such an approved product could require us to conduct comparative studies or utilize other means to determine bioequivalence of the new and prior manufacturers’ products, which could delay or prevent our ability to commercialize such an approved product. If any of these manufacturers is unable or unwilling to increase its manufacturing capacity or if we are unable to establish alternative arrangements on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, the development and commercialization of such an approved product may be delayed or there may be a shortage in supply. Any inability to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities when needed would seriously harm our business. Any manufacturer of our product candidates and approved products, if any, must comply with cGMP requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance, and the maintenance of records and documentation. Manufacturers of our product candidates and approved products, if any, may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state, and foreign regulatory requirements. We have little control over our manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied is compromised due to our manufacturers’ failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our products, which would seriously harm our business. Our success depends on the proper management of our current and future business operations, and the expenses associated with them. Our business strategy requires us to manage our operations to provide for the continued development and potential commercialization of our product candidates and to manage our expenses generated by these activities. In an effort to reduce costs, we announced in February 2009 a workforce reduction of approximately 25%, which included the elimination of certain existing positions across our research and administrative functions. As a result of this reduction in force, we recorded a restructuring charge of $0.8 million in the first quarter of 2009. We continue to believe that strict cost containment in the near term is essential if our current funds are to be sufficient to allow us to continue our currently planned operations. If we are unable to effectively manage our current operations, we may not be able to implement our business strategy and our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we are unable to effectively manage our expenses, we may find it necessary to reduce our expenses through another reduction in our workforce, which could adversely affect our operations. We rely on highly skilled personnel, and if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire qualified personnel, we may not be able to maintain our operations. Our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy are highly dependent on the efforts of our executive management team. In November 2009, our Chief Executive Officer, or CEO, and Chairman of the Board retired after serving since February 2003. Following his departure, our Board of Directors appointed our 25 Table of Contents prior Lead Director to serve as Executive Chairman and Acting President until a qualified replacement is found. We have retained a recruiting firm and are currently conducting a nationwide search for a new CEO. The departure of our CEO and Chairman could have a disruptive effect on our ability to attract and retain qualified team members and execute our strategic plan. Though we intend to hire a qualified candidate for CEO in the near term, no assurances can be given that we will be able to attract and retain a suitable CEO. An extended period of time without a permanent CEO could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Furthermore, in recruiting a new CEO we will incur expenses related to recruiting, relocation, training and possibly experience operational inefficiencies. In the event we are unable to effect a smooth transition from our Interim Executive Chairman and Acting President to a new CEO, or if a new CEO should unexpectedly prove to be unsuitable, the resulting disruption could negatively impact our operations and impede our ability to execute our strategic plan. In addition, although the members of our senior management team have employment agreements with us, these agreements may not provide sufficient incentives for these officers to continue employment with us. The loss of one or more of the members of our senior management team could adversely affect our operations. In February 2009, as part of our efforts to reduce our operating expenses through prioritization of our development portfolio and streamlining our infrastructure, we announced a reduction of approximately 25% of our workforce, across our research and administrative functions. This reduction in workforce may impair our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees and to effectively complete research and administrative functions. As a result, our ability to respond to unexpected challenges may be impaired and we may be unable to take advantage of new opportunities. If we need to rehire terminated individuals or hire individuals with similar skills, we may be unable to do so or we may be required to pay above market rates. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to develop, motivate, and retain qualified management, clinical, and scientific personnel for all areas of our organization. If we do not succeed in retaining and motivating our remaining personnel, our existing operations may suffer and we may be unable to effectively engage in planned operations. We cannot assure you any of our product candidates will be safe or effective, or receive regulatory approval. The clinical trials and the manufacturing of our product candidates are, and marketing of our products will be, subject to extensive and rigorous review and regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States and in other countries where we intend to test and market our product candidates. Before obtaining regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of any product candidate, we must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and effective for use in each target indication. This process can take many years and require the expenditure of substantial resources, and may include post-marketing studies and surveillance. To date, we have not successfully demonstrated in clinical trials safety or efficacy sufficient for regulatory approval. Although our lead product candidate, TRU-015, has completed a Phase 2b clinical trial for the treatment of RA, additional clinical trials would be required before we are able to submit a BLA to the FDA for approval and Pfizer will determine whether to commence a Phase 3 study of TRU-015 for the treatment of RA after reviewing data from the ongoing Phase 2 SBI-087 RA study, in addition to final data from the ongoing Phase 2b TRU-015 (2203) RA study. In addition, our Facet collaboration clinical candidate TRU-016 and our Pfizer collaboration clinical candidate SBI-087 commenced initial clinical testing in 2008 and as a result we only have limited clinical trial results regarding the safety or efficacy of either of these product candidates. Even if, based on the results of the initial clinical trials for TRU-016 and SBI-087, we and Facet, in the case of TRU-016, or Pfizer, in the case of SBI-087, determine to proceed with further clinical testing, a number of additional clinical trials will be required before a BLA can be submitted to the FDA for product approval. The results from preclinical testing and clinical trials that we have completed may not be predictive of results in future preclinical tests and clinical trials, and we cannot assure you we will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to seek or obtain the requisite regulatory approvals. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. All of our other product candidates remain in the discovery and pre-clinical testing stages. We may also encounter delays or rejections due to additional government regulation from future legislation, administrative action, or changes in FDA policy. We cannot assure you that regulatory approval will be obtained for any of our product candidates, 26 Table of Contents and even if the FDA approves a product, the approval will be limited to those indications covered in the approval. If our current product candidates are not shown to be safe and effective in clinical trials, the resulting delays in developing other product candidates and conducting related preclinical testing and clinical trials, as well as the potential need for additional financing, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If we are unable to discover or successfully develop drugs that are effective and safe in humans and receive regulatory approval, we will not have a viable business. We do not expect any of our current product candidates to be commercially available in major markets before 2014, if at all. Any failure or delay in commencing or completing clinical trials for product candidates could severely harm our business. Each of our product candidates must undergo extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials as a condition to regulatory approval. Preclinical studies and clinical trials are expensive and take many years to complete. To date we have not initiated any Phase 3 clinical trials of any product candidate. The commencement and completion of clinical trials for our product candidates may be delayed by many factors, including: • having the capital resources available to fund additional clinical trials; • our or our collaborators’ ability to obtain regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • our or our collaborators’ ability to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in preclinical studies and clinical trials; • delays in patient enrollment and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical trials; • poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues or side effects; • governmental or regulatory delays related to clinical trials, including trial design, results, and materials supply; • changes in regulatory requirements, policy, and guidelines; and • varying interpretation of data by us, any or all of our collaborators, the FDA, and similar foreign regulatory agencies. It is possible that none of our product candidates will complete the required clinical trials in any of the markets in which we or our collaborators intend to commercialize those product candidates. Accordingly, we or our collaborators may not seek or receive the regulatory approvals necessary to market our product candidates. Any failure or delay in commencing or completing clinical trials or obtaining regulatory approvals for product candidates would prevent or delay their commercialization and severely harm our business and financial condition. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not perform as contractually required or otherwise expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We do not currently have the ability to conduct clinical trials and we must rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators, and contract laboratories, to conduct our clinical trials. We have, in the ordinary course of business, entered into agreements with these third parties. Nonetheless, we are responsible for confirming that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with its general investigational plan and protocol. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with regulations and standards, commonly referred to as good clinical practices, for conducting, recording, and reporting the results of clinical trials to ensure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the trial participants are adequately protected. Our reliance on third parties does not relieve us of these responsibilities and requirements. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory 27 Table of Contents obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended, or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. If we enter into additional strategic partnerships we may be required to relinquish important rights to and control over the development of our product candidates or otherwise be subject to terms unfavorable to us. If we enter into any strategic partnerships, we will be subject to a number of risks, including: • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our strategic partners devote to the development or commercialization of product candidates; • strategic partners may delay clinical trials, design clinical trials in a manner with which we do not agree, provide insufficient funding, terminate a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials, or require a new version of a product candidate for clinical testing; • strategic partners may not pursue further development and commercialization of products resulting from the strategic partnering arrangement or may elect to discontinue research and development programs; • strategic partners may not commit adequate resources to the marketing and distribution of any future products, limiting our potential revenues from these products; • disputes may arise between us and our strategic partners that result in the delay or termination of the research, development, or commercialization of our product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management’s attention and consumes resources; • strategic partners may experience financial difficulties; • strategic partners may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in a manner that could jeopardize or invalidate our proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation; • business combinations or significant changes in a strategic partner’s business strategy may also adversely affect a strategic partner’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; • strategic partners could independently move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and • strategic partners could terminate the arrangement or allow it to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our product candidates. The occurrence of any of these risks could negatively impact the development of our product candidates which would have an adverse effect on our business prospects. If our technology or our product candidates conflict with the rights of others we may not be able to manufacture or market our product candidates, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our commercial success will depend in part on not infringing the patents or violating the proprietary rights of third parties. Issued patents held by others may limit our ability to develop commercial products. All issued U.S. patents are entitled to a presumption of validity under U.S. law. If we need licenses to such patents to permit us to manufacture, develop, or market our product candidates we may be required to pay significant fees or royalties, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain such licenses. Competitors or third parties may obtain patents that may cover subject matter we use in developing the technology required to bring our products to market, producing our products, or treating patients with our products. We know that others have filed patent applications in various jurisdictions that relate to several areas in which we are developing products. Some of these patent applications have already resulted in patents and some are still 28 Table of Contents pending. We may be required to alter our processes or product candidates, pay licensing fees, or cease activities. For example, certain parts of our SMIPtm product technology, including the current expression system responsible for the production of the recombinant proteins used in our product candidates and certain nucleic acids, originated from third-party sources. These third-party sources include academic, government, and other research laboratories, as well as the public domain. If use of technology incorporated into or used to produce our product candidates is challenged, or if our processes or product candidates conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us in Europe, the United States, and elsewhere claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of the affected products. Additionally, it is not possible to predict with certainty what patent claims may issue from pending applications. In the United States, for example, patent prosecution can proceed in secret prior to issuance of a patent. As a result, third parties may be able to obtain patents with claims relating to our product candidates which they could attempt to assert against us. Further, as we develop our products, third parties may assert that we infringe the patents currently held or licensed by them and we cannot predict the outcome of any such action. We are aware of previously filed U.S. provisional patent applications owned by Genentech and Biogen Idec, which patent applications are related to a revoked European patent that was generally directed to the use of an anti-CD20 antibody for the treatment of RA. A U.S. patent or patent application claiming the benefit of priority to the provisional patent applications, if it exists, has not yet published. In the event any such U.S. patent issues, and if our activities are determined to be covered by such a patent, we cannot assure you Genentech would be willing to grant us or Pfizer a license on terms we or they would consider commercially reasonable, if at all, which could prevent us from manufacturing and marketing TRU-015 or SBI-087 for the treatment of RA in the United States, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, and our collaboration with Pfizer. With regard to the related European patent, we announced on September 11, 2008 that the Opposition Division, or OD, of the European Patent Office, or EPO, had revoked the European patent in its entirety. On February 19, 2009, Genentech and Biogen Idec appealed the decision to the Board of Appeals of the EPO. If Genentech and Biogen Idec succeed in their appeal of the OD’s decision the opposition proceeding will be reopened before the OD. If upon these further proceedings the European patent is held to be valid, either as amended prior to the OD hearing or with a more limited scope, and if our activities are determined to be covered by that patent, we cannot assure you that Genentech would be willing to grant us or Pfizer a license on terms we or they would consider commercially reasonable, if at all. As a consequence, we and Pfizer could be prevented from manufacturing and marketing TRU-015 or SBI-087 for the treatment of RA in the designated and extended states of the European Patent Convention where the patent is validated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. The revoked Genentech European patent claimed the benefit of priority to two U.S. provisional patent applications and a U.S. patent or patent application claiming priority to the provisional patent applications that have not been published. In the event any such U.S. patent issues, and if our activities are determined to be covered by such a patent, we cannot assure you Genentech would be willing to grant us or Pfizer a license on terms we or they would consider commercially reasonable, if at all, which could prevent us from manufacturing and marketing TRU-015 or SBI-087 for the treatment of RA in the United States, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results, and our collaboration with Pfizer. If we are unable to obtain, maintain, and enforce our proprietary rights, we may not be able to compete effectively or operate profitably. Our success depends in part on obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing our patents and other proprietary rights, and will depend in large part on our ability to: • obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary protection for our technology, processes, and product candidates; • enforce patents once issued and defend those patents if their enforceability is challenged; • preserve trade secrets; and • operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. 29 Table of Contents The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. For example: • we might not have been the first to make the inventions claimed in our patents, if issued, or disclosed in our pending patent applications; • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents or, if issued, these patents may not be sufficient to protect our technology or provide us with a basis for commercially viable products, and may not provide us with any competitive advantages; • if our pending applications issue as patents, they may be challenged by third parties as not infringed, invalid, or unenforceable under U.S. or foreign laws; • if issued, the patents under which we hold rights may not be valid or enforceable; or • we may develop additional proprietary technologies that are not patentable and that may not be adequately protected through trade secrets, if, for example, a competitor were to independently develop duplicative, similar, or alternative technologies. The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical firms is highly uncertain and involves many complex legal and technical issues. There is no clear policy involving the breadth of claims allowed in patents or the degree of protection afforded under patents. Although we believe our potential rights under patent applications provide a competitive advantage, we cannot assure you that patent applications owned by or licensed to us will result in patents being issued or that, if issued, the patents will give us an advantage over competitors with similar technology, nor can we assure you that we can obtain, maintain, and enforce all ownership and other proprietary rights necessary to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Even if any or all of our patent applications issue as patents, others may challenge the validity, inventorship, ownership, enforceability, or scope of our patents or other technology used in or otherwise necessary for the development and commercialization of our product candidates. Further, we cannot assure you that any such challenge would not be successful. Moreover, the cost of litigation to uphold the validity of patents to prevent infringement or to otherwise protect our proprietary rights can be substantial. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use the challenged technologies without payment to us. We cannot assure you that our patents, if issued, will not be infringed or successfully avoided through design innovation. Intellectual property lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources, even if the outcome were successful. In addition, there is a risk that a court would decide that our patents, if issued, are not valid and that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions. There is also the risk that, even if the validity of a patent were upheld, a court would refuse to stop the other party from using the inventions, including on the ground that its activities do not infringe that patent. If any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition, and operating results would be materially adversely affected. We also will rely on current and future trademarks to establish and maintain recognized brands. If we fail to acquire and protect such trademarks, our ability to market and sell our products, and therefore our business, financial condition and operating results, would be materially adversely affected. For example, in November 2005, Merck KGaA filed a proceeding with the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market opposing our European registration of the trademark TRUBION and seeking to place certain restrictions on the identification of goods, services, and channels of trade description in our European trademark registration. Merck claims rights resulting from its prior trademark registration of TRIBION HARMONIS. Our action with the Court of First Instance of the European Community to annul the Board decision has been denied. Merck also filed a similar opposition in Brazil in February 2009. We intend to vigorously pursue registration of the mark TRUBION for products in the European Union and Brazil and to challenge Merck’s claimed rights as necessary to obtain such registration; however, if we are unable to effectively defend against the opposition, 30 Table of Contents we may be prohibited from using the TRUBION trademark in certain European Union jurisdictions, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to promote the Trubion brand in those jurisdictions. In addition to the intellectual property and other rights described above, we also rely on unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information, particularly when we do not believe that patent or trademark protection is appropriate or available. Trade secrets are difficult to protect and we cannot assure you that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques or otherwise gain access to or disclose our unpatented technology, trade secrets, and confidential information. In addition, we cannot assure you that the steps we take with employees, consultants, and advisors will provide effective protection of our confidential information or, in the event of unauthorized use of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of third parties, provide adequate or effective remedies or protection. We may incur substantial costs as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. There has been significant litigation in the biotechnology industry over patents and other proprietary rights, and if we become involved in any litigation it could consume a substantial portion of our resources, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. Some of our competitors may be better able to sustain the costs of complex patent litigation because they have substantially greater resources. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to obtain a license, grant cross-licenses, and pay substantial royalties in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We cannot assure you we would prevail in any legal action or that any license required under a third-party patent would be made available on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue our operations. Ultimately we could be prevented from commercializing a product or be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations as a result of claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Should third parties file patent applications, or be issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial costs to us and an adverse decision as to the priority of our inventions. An unfavorable outcome in an interference proceeding could require us to cease using the technology or to license rights from prevailing third parties. We cannot assure you that any prevailing party would offer us a license or that we could acquire any license made available to us on commercially acceptable terms. We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing, or commercializing products before, or more successfully than, we do. Our future success depends on our ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to the design, development, and commercialization of our product candidates. We expect any product candidate that we commercialize with our collaborative partners, or on our own, will compete with other products. Product Candidates for Autoimmune and Inflammatory Diseases. If approved for the treatment of RA, we anticipate that our product candidates would compete with other marketed protein therapeutics for the treatment of RA, including: Rituxan® (Genentech, Roche and Biogen Idec), Enbrel® (Amgen and Pfizer), Remicade® (JNJ and Schering-Plough), Humira® (Abbott), Orencia® (BMS), Cimzia® (UCB), Simponi® (JNJ and Schering-Plough), and Actemra® (Roche and Chugai). If approved for the treatment of SLE, our product candidates will compete with other therapies. Product Candidates for B-cell Malignancies. If approved for the treatment of CLL, NHL, or other B-cell malignancies, we anticipate that our product candidates would compete with other B-cell depleting therapies. While we are not aware of any CD37-directed therapeutics in development or on the market, other biologic therapies are marketed for the treatment of NHL or CLL or both, such as Rituxan/Mabthera® 31 Table of Contents (Genentech, Roche and Biogen Idec), Zevalin® (Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Bayer Schering AG), Bexxar® (GSK), , Campath® (Genzyme and Bayer Schering AG) and Arzerra® (GSK and Genmab). Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and personnel resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater commercial infrastructures than we have. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to: • design and develop products that are superior to other products in the market; • attract and retain qualified scientific, medical, product development, commercial, and sales and marketing personnel; • obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our processes, product candidates, and technologies; • operate without infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties; • obtain required regulatory approvals; and • successfully collaborate with others in the design, development, and commercialization of new products. Established competitors may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop novel compounds that could make our product candidates obsolete. In addition, any new product that competes with a generic market-leading product must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability, and safety in order to overcome severe price competition and to be commercially successful. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow, and our financial condition and operating results will suffer. We may fail to select or capitalize on the most scientifically, clinically, or commercially promising or profitable product candidates. We have limited technical, managerial, and financial resources to determine which of our product candidates should proceed to initial clinical trials, later-stage clinical development, and potential commercialization and, further, we may make incorrect determinations as a result of our limited resources or information available to us at the time of our determination. Our decisions to allocate our research and development, management, and financial resources toward particular product candidates or therapeutic areas may not lead to the development of viable commercial products and may divert resources from better opportunities. Similarly, our decisions to delay or terminate drug development programs may also be incorrect and could cause us to miss valuable opportunities. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, they could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market and we may be subject to penalties if we fail to comply with regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products. Any product candidate for which we receive regulatory approval, together with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, and advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continued review and regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies. Even if regulatory approval of a product candidate is granted, the approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product candidate may be marketed or on the conditions of approval, or contain requirements for costly post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product candidate. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with our products or their manufacture, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in, among other things: • restrictions on the products or manufacturing processes; • withdrawal of the products from the market; 32 Table of Contents • voluntary or mandatory recalls; • fines; • suspension of regulatory approvals; • product seizures; or • injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. If we are slow or otherwise unable to adapt to changes in existing regulatory requirements, we may lose marketing approval for any products that may be approved in the future. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent us from marketing our products internationally. We intend to have our product candidates marketed outside the United States. In order to market our products in the European Union and many other non-U.S. jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements. To date, we have not filed for marketing approval of any of our product candidates and may not receive the approvals necessary to commercialize our product candidates in any market. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing and data review. The time required to obtain foreign regulatory approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval, or may include different or additional risks. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory agencies in other foreign countries or by the FDA. A failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one jurisdiction may have a negative effect on the regulatory approval process in other jurisdictions, including approval by the FDA. The failure to obtain regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions could seriously harm our business. Our product candidates may never achieve market acceptance even if we obtain regulatory approvals. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals for the commercial sale of our product candidates, the commercial success of these product candidates will depend on, among other things, their acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors, and other members of the medical community as a therapeutic and cost-effective alternative to competing products and treatments. If our product candidates fail to gain market acceptance, we may be unable to earn sufficient revenue to continue our business. Market acceptance of, and demand for, any product that we may develop and commercialize will depend on many factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • the prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; • availability, relative cost, and relative efficacy of alternative and competing treatments; • the effectiveness of our marketing and distribution strategy; • publicity concerning our products or competing products and treatments; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third-party insurance coverage or reimbursement. If our product candidates do not become widely accepted by physicians, patients, third-party payors, and other members of the medical community, our business, financial condition, and operating results would be materially adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents If we are unable to establish a sales and marketing infrastructure or enter into collaborations with partners to perform these functions, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates. We currently do not have any internal sales, marketing, or distribution capabilities. In order to commercialize any of our product candidates that are approved for commercial sale, we must either acquire or internally develop a sales, marketing, and distribution infrastructure or enter into collaborations with partners able to perform these services for us. In December 2005, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Wyeth, now Pfizer, to develop and commercialize therapeutics directed to the CD20 protein and other targets. In August 2009 we entered into a collaboration agreement with Facet to develop and commercialize TRU-016. If we do not enter into collaborations with respect to product candidates not covered by the Pfizer or Facet collaborations, or if any of our product candidates are the subject of collaborations with partners that are not able to commercialize such product candidates, we will need to acquire or internally develop a sales, marketing, and distribution infrastructure. For example, neither we nor Facet currently have a sales, marketing or distribution infrastructure. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our product candidates without partners that are able to commercialize the product candidates include: • our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; • the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; • the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and • unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating a sales and marketing organization. If we are not able to partner with a third party able to commercialize our product candidates, or are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales, marketing, and distribution infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. If any products we develop become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices, or healthcare reform initiatives, our business could be harmed. Our ability to commercialize any product candidate profitably will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for such product candidate and related treatments will be available from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, or private payors, and other organizations in the United States and internationally. Even if we succeed in bringing one or more product candidates to market, these products may not be considered cost-effective, and the amount reimbursed for any product may be insufficient to allow us to sell it profitably. Because our product candidates are in the early stages of development, we are unable at this time to determine their cost-effectiveness and the level or method of reimbursement. There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage for newly approved products, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the product candidate is approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies. Moreover, eligibility for coverage does not mean that any product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, manufacture, sale, and distribution. Increasingly, the third-party payors who reimburse patients, such as government and private payors, are requiring that companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products. If the reimbursement we are able to obtain for any product we develop is inadequate in light of our development and other costs, our business could be harmed. We face potential product liability exposure, and if successful claims are brought against us, we may incur substantial liability for a product candidate and may have to limit its commercialization. The use of our product candidates in clinical trials and the sale of any products for which we obtain marketing approval expose us to the risk of product liability claims. Product liability claims might be brought against us by consumers, health-care providers, pharmaceutical companies, or others selling our products. If 34 Table of Contents we cannot successfully defend ourselves against these claims, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our product candidates; • impairment of our business reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. Although we currently have product liability insurance coverage for our clinical trials for expenses or losses, our insurance coverage may not reimburse us or may not be sufficient to reimburse us for any or all expenses or losses we may suffer. Moreover, insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive and, in the future, we may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in sufficient amounts to protect us against losses due to liability. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if we obtain marketing approval for our product candidates in development, but we may be unable to obtain commercially reasonable product liability insurance for any products approved for marketing. On occasion, large judgments have been awarded in class action lawsuits based on products that had unanticipated side effects. A successful product liability claim or series of claims brought against us could cause our stock price to fall and, if judgments exceed our insurance coverage, could decrease our cash and adversely affect our business. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes contamination or injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the use of potentially harmful biological materials, as well as hazardous materials, chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling, or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any liability could exceed our resources. We do not maintain liability insurance coverage for our handling of biological or hazardous materials. We, the third parties that conduct clinical trials on our behalf, and the third parties that manufacture our product candidates are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of these materials and waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. The failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in significant fines and work stoppages and may harm our business. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The trading price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations and volatility, and our stockholders may be unable to resell their shares at a profit. The trading prices of many smaller publicly traded companies are highly volatile, particularly companies such as ours that have limited operating histories. Accordingly, the trading price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate or decline. Since our initial public offering, which was completed in October 2006, the price of our common stock has ranged from an intra-day low of $1.00 to an intra-day high of $22.50. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock include the following: • low trading volumes; • our ability to develop and market new and enhanced product candidates on a timely basis; 35 Table of Contents • announcements by us or our collaborators or competitors of new commercial products, clinical progress or the lack thereof, changes in or terminations of relationships, significant contracts, commercial relationships, or capital commitments; • commencement of, or our involvement in, litigation; • changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; • any major change in our board or management; • quarterly variations in our operating results or those of our collaborators or competitors; • general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets; and • political instability, natural disasters, war, and/or events of terrorism. In addition, the U.S. stock market in the last 16 months has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of trading companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade our stock, the price of our stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the availability of research and reports that third-party industry or financial analysts publish about us. There are many large, publicly traded companies active in the biopharmaceutical industry, which may mean it will be less likely that we receive widespread analyst coverage. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. The concentration of our capital stock ownership with insiders will likely limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of December 31, 2009, our executive officers, directors, current five percent or greater stockholders, and affiliated entities together beneficially owned approximately 81% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, have control over most matters that require approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Corporate action might be taken even if other stockholders oppose them. This concentration of ownership might also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us that other stockholders may view as beneficial. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some 36 Table of Contents stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We are exposed to potential risks from legislation requiring companies to evaluate controls under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. Among other things, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Compliance with Section 404 requires substantial accounting expense and significant management efforts. Our testing, or the subsequent review by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls that would require us to remediate in a timely manner so as to be able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 each year. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner each year, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, NASDAQ or other regulatory authorities that would require additional financial and management resources and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 