risk factors which could impact our business and financial performance. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should any of our assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary in material respects from those projected in these forward-looking statements. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. PRESENTATION OF INFORMATION Financial information contained in Part I and Items 6 and 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K expressed in U.S. dollars is presented in thousands (000’s) unless otherwise noted. Percentages contained in this report were calculated, where possible, using the information from our consolidated financial statements, and not the rounded information contained in this report. As a result, these percentages may differ slightly from calculations based upon the rounded figures provided in this report and totals contained in this report may be affected by rounding. 4 Unless the context indicates otherwise, references to “ClearPoint Business Resources, Inc.,” “ClearPoint,” the “Company,” “we,” “us” and “our” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refer to ClearPoint Business Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries. PART I Item 1. Business. Company Overview ClearPoint is a workplace management solutions provider. Prior to fiscal year 2008, ClearPoint provided various temporary staffing services as both a direct provider and as a franchisor. During the year ended December 31, 2008, ClearPoint transitioned its business model from a temporary staffing provider through a network of branch-based offices or franchises to a provider that manages clients’ temporary staffing needs through its open Internet portal-based iLabor Network, referred to as the iLabor Network or iLabor. Under the new business model, ClearPoint acts as a broker for its clients and network of temporary staffing suppliers using iLabor. ClearPoint’s services focus on assisting clients in managing their contingent labor needs. iLabor creates a dynamic, competitive open marketplace for suppliers of temporary labor to bid on and fulfill orders for temporary labor placed by ClearPoint’s clients. iLabor Network provides services to clients ranging from small businesses to Fortune 500 companies. The iLabor Network specializes in the highly transactional “go to work” or “on-demand” segment of the temporary labor market. Historically, this portion of the market has been underserved by technology solutions. ClearPoint considers hospitality, distribution, warehouse, manufacturing, logistics, transportation, convention services, hotel chains, retail, and administrative sectors among the segments best able to be served by the iLabor Network. iLabor is an on-demand e-procurement solution which eliminates the need for clients to install and maintain costly hardware and software applications. A client can access iLabor through standard Internet connections and web browsers, which also eliminates the need for time consuming and costly systems integrations. Regardless of size, number of locations, or number of temporary staffing companies utilized, ClearPoint’s clients receive one bill, centralized reporting, company wide metrics, and standardized quality control from one point of entry, iLabor. The iLabor platform provides real time feedback on all posted positions and provides a centralized reporting mechanism for clients to review and monitor their spending on temporary labor. Many of these same benefits of ClearPoint’s product offering are realized by ClearPoint’s suppliers as well. They incur no software or implementation fees and can access the application through a standard Internet browser. They also have the opportunity to access more clients via the portal and benefit from ClearPoint’s consolidated invoicing and payments, thereby reducing their internal overhead costs. ClearPoint believes that its iLabor technology has allowed ClearPoint to better position itself in the human capital industry. The iLabor Network is a technology-based procurement method that provides a low cost and easy alternative for ClearPoint’s clients, as well as traditional staffing companies in the industry, to procure temporary labor through a ClearPoint-approved staffing supplier network that has national coverage. It is the strength of ClearPoint’s base of temporary labor suppliers that enables ClearPoint to effectively and efficiently meet the stringent demands of iLabor clients, often within very tight time constraints. The iLabor platform is a fully scalable product offering that can accommodate significant growth in transaction volumes for ClearPoint without significant increases to ClearPoint’s existing cost structure. 5 ClearPoint’s vendor management services, or VMS, system provides human resource outsourcing, customized managed services programs, and workforce optimization embedded within the clients’ internal technology infrastructure. ClearPoint’s VMS system is a management software program that encompasses every facet of coordinating, ordering, planning and tracking of all contract/temporary personnel, including contract employees from various staffing companies. Business Strategy Temporary staffing and outsourcing have become an integral way for companies to increase scale and focus on core competencies while controlling employment costs and mitigating certain employment-related risks. The temporary staffing industry provides flexible, efficient and cost-effective staffing solutions to help companies meet a variety of human resource needs. Companies rely on staffing providers to meet personnel needs during periods of peak workloads caused by factors such as seasonality, special projects, vacation, illness, emergency and rapidly changing economic conditions. In addition, companies realize cost savings from using flexible staffing services by outsourcing the process and expense of advertising, screening, interviewing, testing and training job candidates to outsourced staffing providers. ClearPoint believes that iLabor is a tool for companies that take advantage of the temporary labor workforce. iLabor is a virtual marketplace for such companies to e-procure temporary labor from a national network of ClearPoint-approved suppliers that compete for each position. The strength of ClearPoint’s supplier base ensures that posted positions are filled on a timely basis, and iLabor provides clients with the ability to monitor their total spends on temporary labor with real-time feedback. ClearPoint has made it simple and inexpensive for its clients to access a pool of temporary labor by avoiding time consuming systems integrations and costly hardware and software application purchases and installations. ClearPoint intends to grow its supplier network and facilitate the market acceptance of the iLabor Network. ClearPoint is constantly expanding its supplier network to increase its coverage through both recruitment of new suppliers and by the addition of new clients who have existing relationships for sourcing contingent labor and would like to use them through the portal. In addition, ClearPoint designs and implements performance based solutions for its iLabor clients and provides value-added consulting services tailored to the client’s business. ClearPoint also intends to continue to offer VMS whereby ClearPoint provides dedicated onsite personnel to coordinate the contingent labor resources, working in conjunction with ClearPoint’s clients to determine their needs and requirements relating to the sourcing and management of the labor. Technology and Services ClearPoint is a technology based service provider in the procurement of temporary labor. ClearPoint provides the following services: Management of Temporary Workforce iLabor. ClearPoint’s iLabor Network is a proprietary technology-based platform which provides clients a comprehensive web-based portal to streamline the process involved in procurement and management of contingent workforces through a network of ClearPoint-approved staffing suppliers. The iLabor platform provides a virtual marketplace for the e-procurement of temporary labor and provides clients with one contract and one contact point to order temporary staff on a national scale, without the requirement to implement costly systems integration. 6 VMS. ClearPoint’s VMS program provides a system for human resource outsourcing, customized managed services programs, and workforce optimization embedded within the clients’ internal technology infrastructure. ClearPoint’s human resource outsourcing service becomes an extension of its client’s human resource department as a sole source provider of staffing services for both contract and direct positions. ClearPoint will also design and implement performance based solutions for its clients and provide value-added consulting services tailored to the client’s business. ClearPoint’s VMS system is a management program that encompasses every facet of coordinating, ordering, planning and tracking of all contract/temporary personnel from various staffing companies and utilizes ClearPoint’s personnel onsite with its clients to help them optimize their workforce and reduce expenses. Business Services ClearPoint, through its approved partners, provides business process outsourcing, support services and benefits solutions and administration for clients. ClearPoint designs its business services and outsourcing programs to be client-specific business service solutions tailored to meet the needs of the particular client, which are easier and more cost effective for the client than building the necessary in-house recruiting and credentialing infrastructure. The goal of each outsourced program is to improve the client’s process and outcomes for the particular division that will be operated by ClearPoint. ClearPoint’s outsourcing offering can also include managing other functions for the client, such as payroll administration, training and retention programs, risk management and call centers. Project-Based Staff Augmentation Primarily from ClearPoint’s approved supplier network, ClearPoint provides full service project solutions, executive search and temporary and permanent placement, contract recruiting services and short- and long-term hourly-based assignments for clients in both commercial services and professional services. ClearPoint’s Project-Based Staff Augmentation for commercial services specializes in the transportation, logistics and distribution industry. Clients and Suppliers ClearPoint’s clients range in size from small businesses to Fortune 500 companies located throughout the United States. ClearPoint’s clients operate primarily in the transportation, logistics, engineering, scientific, aerospace, allied health, information technology, manufacturing, distribution, call center, financial, hospitality, food service, retail, data processing, legal and administration industries. With the introduction of iLabor, ClearPoint’s client base now includes other providers of temporary labor which use iLabor to fill open positions they are not able to fill themselves due to resource constraints or limitations in geographic coverage, providing them with incremental revenues and earnings. Historically, ClearPoint has sought to maintain a diverse client base in an effort to reduce the impact of client turnover. ClearPoint has traditionally had a larger concentration in the transportation and retail industries, but has recently expanded in the hospitality sector as well. No single client accounted for more than 5% of ClearPoint’s revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. ClearPoint currently works with one client utilizing its VMS system, which accounted for 1% of ClearPoint’s revenues for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. ClearPoint maintains onsite personnel managing the client’s contingent labor needs sourcing, assessing, and screening candidates for temporary positions within the company. ClearPoint’s supplier network ranges from small one-location offices to national firms with office locations across the United States. Suppliers are afforded many of the same benefits of using iLabor available to ClearPoint’s clients and can access the system through a standard Internet connection without any cost for software or implementation. They also receive consolidated billing and check processing and have the potential to service more clients in their geographic region with reduced overhead expenses. 7 Sales and Marketing ClearPoint sells its technology services through both direct and indirect channels. A direct approach is used to target specific large accounts within the light industrial market segment and is augmented by indirect channel partners with specific temporary labor expertise. ClearPoint uses a solutions sales approach whereby ClearPoint’s products and services are presented to improve processes, increase efficiency, provide reporting tools and reduce expenses within an organization. This is typically done through lead qualification and follow up presentations to involved constituents of a prospective client. Research and Development ClearPoint focuses its research and development efforts primarily on the development of software upgrades to the iLabor system. ClearPoint’s research and development expenditures totaled $446 and $1,472 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Regulation ClearPoint’s services are subject to various federal, state and local regulations. In addition, ClearPoint’s services may be subject to various state and local tax regulations. Some or all of ClearPoint’s services are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices. ClearPoint also is subject to regulations applicable to businesses conducting online commerce. Presently, there are relatively few laws specifically directed toward online services. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, it is possible that laws and regulations will be adopted with respect to the Internet or online services. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as online contracts, user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content and quality of services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. Intellectual Property ClearPoint’s intellectual property assets take various forms, including know-how and related trade secrets, trademarks, trade names and copyrights, and related licensing. In terms of trademarks and brand equity, ClearPoint currently maintains five pending applications for federal registration with the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office, including four applications to protect variations on the “iLabor” and “ClearPoint iLabor” brand of web-based software and services, as well as issued registrations for ClearPoint’s slogan, “We Get To The Point”, and two other marks. ClearPoint is actively prosecuting the above-mentioned pending applications in the effort to secure registration. With respect to copyrights, while ClearPoint has not secured U.S. Copyright Office registration, it is preparing one or more applications for registration, and it intends to vigorously protect and enforce its proprietary rights in the original programming embodied in the iLabor software suite. In connection with its proprietary know-how and trade secrets, ClearPoint implements safeguards to limit access to sensitive information and to secure employee cooperation in protecting company assets. The technology which ClearPoint deploys through its iLabor Network will be its core product offering as it moves forward. As a result, continuous enhancements and evaluation of safeguards of intellectual property constitute an important part of ClearPoint’s business strategy. 8 Competition ClearPoint competes with e-procurement technology providers in the temporary staffing industry such as IQNavigator and Fieldglass, Inc., which focus on higher-end services and on-site vendor management, as well as other traditional temporary staffing firms offering similar services on a national, regional or local basis. The staffing business is very competitive and highly fragmented, with limited barriers to entry into the market, and no company has a dominant market share in the United States. ClearPoint is not aware of any competitors that compete directly with its iLabor platform in the light industrial market segment. In the temporary staffing industry, historically, ClearPoint’s strongest competitors, for both iLabor and VMS, included national staffing companies that have close existing relationships with clients, greater financial resources and larger marketing presence, as well as specialty providers in certain verticals. In addition, such organizations could also discount their services to a point which would make it difficult for ClearPoint to compete effectively and maintain or gain a market share. iLabor differentiates itself from the traditional temporary staffing providers and e-procurement vendors by leveraging a network of staffing suppliers branching through locations across the United States and focusing on the underserved light industrial market segment. With the introduction of iLabor, ClearPoint operates as a clearing house for clients’ temporary staffing requirements, where many of the national staffing companies have now signed on to the iLabor Network, thereby becoming the fulfillment arm of ClearPoint’s iLabor ordering system. Small, local providers are also signing on to the iLabor Network. ClearPoint’s future success will depend on the adoption rate of the iLabor procurement system by corporate buyers of temporary staffing as well as by larger staffing companies looking to generate incremental revenues and earnings. Seasonality ClearPoint experiences fluctuation in revenue and operating results based on a number of factors, including the personnel demands of its clients. Historically, ClearPoint has experienced a rise in demand from its transportation and retail clients in the fourth quarter due to the increase in the shipment of products for the holiday season. The first quarter has been traditionally the slowest quarter from a revenue perspective due to national holidays and client planning cycles. Inclement weather can cause a slowdown in ClearPoint’s business due to business shutdowns by its clients. Employees As of March 23, 2009, ClearPoint employed 16 full-time staff employees. Business Combinations ClearPoint was incorporated in Delaware on July 21, 2004. ClearPoint Resources, Inc., ClearPoint’s wholly-owned subsidiary (f/k/a Mercer Staffing, Inc. and ClearPoint Business Resources, Inc.), referred to as CPR, was formed in Delaware on January 1, 2005, as a holding company of its wholly owned subsidiaries consisting of, among others, Mercer Ventures, Inc., referred to as MVI, and Allied Contract Services, LLC. On February 12, 2007, CPR consummated a merger with Terra Nova Acquisition Corporation, referred to as Terra Nova. As a result of the merger, CPR stockholders were issued an aggregate of 6,051,549 shares of Terra Nova common stock. Upon the closing of the merger, Terra Nova changed its name to ClearPoint Business Resources, Inc. On February 23, 2007, ClearPoint acquired certain assets and liabilities of ALS, LLC and its subsidiaries, also known as ASG, LLC and referred to as ALS. The purchase price of $24,400 consisted of cash of $19,000, a promissory note in the amount of $2,500, referred to as the ALS Note, shares of common stock with a value of $2,500 (439,367 shares) and the assumption of approximately $400 of current liabilities. The principal and interest balance of the ALS Note at December 31, 2008 was $2,214 and was not repaid due to the pending litigation with Temporary Services Insurance Ltd., referred to as TSIL. For additional information regarding the litigation with TSIL, see Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For additional information regarding the transaction with ALS, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as the other information included in this report, before making your investment decisions with respect to our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the value of our securities could decline substantially. Risks Related to Our Business Our revenue is highly susceptible to changes in general economic conditions, and a recession or other downturn in the U.S. economy, may adversely affect the industries in which our clients operate as well as our business, financial position and results of operations. The global economy is currently undergoing a period of unprecedented volatility, and the future economic environment may continue to be less favorable than that of recent years. It is uncertain how long the recession that the U.S. economy has entered will last. We have exposure to many different industries in which our clients operate that may be unstable or may become unstable in the current economic environment. Any such instability affects our clients’ ability to fulfill their respective contractual obligations to us or causes them to limit or place burdensome conditions upon future transactions with us. Demand for our staffing services has been adversely affected by the general level of economic activity and rising unemployment in the United States. During the current economic downturn, some of our clients have been reducing their temporary labor spending as part of a general cost reduction strategy. In addition, some of our clients have limited their utilization of temporary employees before laying off regular full-time employees. Generally, we have experienced less demand for our services and more competitive pricing pressure during this period of economic downturn, which has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are dependent on our approved staffing supplier base to fill open positions posted by our clients. If due to the economic downturn, some of our suppliers curtail their operations or are otherwise unable to fill sufficient open positions posted by our clients, we may be unable to compete effectively and it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our independent auditors included an explanatory paragraph in its audit report on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 regarding our ability to continue as a going concern, which may require us to scale back or cease operations. At December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of $960, an accumulated deficit of $54,491 and working capital deficiency of $11,937. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we incurred a net loss of $38,786. Due to such financial position and results of operations as well as the absence of firm commitments for any additional financing, our independent registered public accounting firm included an explanatory paragraph in its audit report on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 regarding our ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, obtain additional funding or restructure existing debt, we may not be able to continue operations as proposed, requiring us to modify our business plan, curtail various aspects of our operations or cease operations. In such event, you may lose a portion or all of your investment. In addition, the going concern explanatory paragraph in the report of our independent auditors may cause concern to one or more of our constituencies of debt holders, clients, suppliers, or trade creditors. If any debt holder’s, client’s or trade creditor’s concern results in adverse changes in their respective business relations with us, these changes may materially adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. 10 We may be unable to obtain additional financing or restructure existing debt to implement our business plan, which will have a material adverse impact on our liquidity and ability to continue operations. Our ability to obtain financing or restructure existing debt depends, in part, upon prevailing capital market conditions as well as our operating results, which may negatively impact our efforts to arrange financing on satisfactory terms. The going concern explanatory paragraph in the report of our independent auditors indicates an absence of obvious or reasonably assured sources of future funding necessary to maintain our ongoing operations. There is no assurance that our capital raising efforts will be able to attract the additional capital or other funds we need to sustain our operations. The going concern explanatory paragraph in the report of our independent auditors may make it more difficult for us to raise capital or restructure existing debt. In addition, the current economic crisis, which involves, among other things, significant reductions in available capital from banks and other providers of credit, may further restrict our access to financing in the capital markets. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to implement our business plan or repay our existing debt obligations. The failure to obtain additional capital or restructure existing debt on acceptable terms will also have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and ability to continue operations. We incurred losses for the last two fiscal years, and continued losses may negatively impact our business, ability to repay debt, financial condition and results of operations. We incurred net losses of $38,786 and $12,391 for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $54,491. If we continue to experience losses, it may negatively impact our business, ability to repay debt, financial condition and results of operations. Our indebtedness may limit cash flow available for our operations. On June 20, 2008, we consolidated and deferred payment on our obligations to Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, referred to as M&T, and entered into a $3,000 revolving credit facility with ComVest and a $9,000 term note with ComVest. Such debt restructuring effectively replaced M&T with ComVest as our senior lender. We use royalty payments received primarily from StaffChex Inc., referred to as StaffChex, and Koosharem Corp doing business as Select Staffing, referred to as Select, for the repayment of the ComVest term note. To the extent that royalty receipts from these sources do not meet the minimum threshold of $200 per month, we must make up the difference from our operating cash. In the event that royalty receipts from these sources exceed $450 in a given month, we may utilize the excess for operations or offset amounts owed on the revolving credit facility at our discretion. At December 31, 2008, we remitted approximately $1,730 of principal and interest payments, in the aggregate, to ComVest, of which $1,607 was derived from our royalty receipts and $123 was derived from our other operations. In addition, as part of restructuring our debt obligations to M&T, of which approximately $5,000 was outstanding at December 31, 2008, we agreed to pay M&T up to $3,000 in cash proceeds arising out of our accounts receivable. At December 31, 2008, we remitted approximately $1,166 to M&T against the $3,000 receivable target. We also agreed to pay M&T our federal and state income tax refunds, which we anticipated to be not less than $1,000. We remitted approximately $974 of federal tax refunds, approximately $25 of state tax refunds and approximately $25 of other tax refunds to M&T. 11 Because we are obligated to dedicate a portion of our cash flow to service our debt obligations, our cash flow available for operations has been reduced. The amount of indebtedness we have could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the markets in which we compete and require us to dedicate more cash flow to service our debt than we desire. Subject to limitations in the ComVest loan agreement, we may incur additional debt in the future to finance our operations or otherwise and servicing this debt could further limit our cash flow. If we continue to experience liquidity issues, we may be unable to repay our outstanding debt obligations when due and may seek, or be forced to seek, protection under the federal bankruptcy laws. We are highly leveraged and we have very limited financial resources. At December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $960 and approximately $27,000 of total liabilities. Our ability to borrow under the ComVest revolving credit facility and term loan would be compromised in the event of non-compliance with applicable covenants under the ComVest loan agreement. Such non-compliance would constitute an event of default and would permit the lender to exercise its remedies under the ComVest loan agreement, including declaring all amounts owing under the revolving credit facility and the term loan, which constituted, in the aggregate, approximately $8,600 at December 31, 2008, to be immediately due and payable. Also listed as an event of default under the ComVest loan agreement is a default with respect to any other of our indebtedness exceeding $100, if the effect of such default would permit the lender to accelerate the maturity of such indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, we were current in all interest and principal payments, as applicable, with respect to all of our outstanding indebtedness. An event of default under the ComVest loan agreement would also require us to pay higher rates of interest on the amounts we owe to ComVest and, pursuant to a cross default provision, may trigger an agreement termination event under the M&T loan agreement, which would, among other remedies available to M&T, result in the deferred obligations under such agreement, which constituted, in the aggregate, approximately $5,000 at December 31, 2008, becoming accelerated and immediately due and payable. We may not have the resources to satisfy these obligations. If we are unable to repay our debt obligations when due, we may seek protection under the federal bankruptcy laws or be forced into an involuntary bankruptcy filing. If the remedial policies and procedures we have implemented are insufficient to address the identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations and our financial statements may contain material misstatements. Our management performs assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In connection with such evaluation, our management determined that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2007, based on the criteria in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Although we believe that we addressed our material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting and our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008, we cannot guarantee that any additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not arise in the future due to a failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting. In such case, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations, our financial statements may contain material misstatements and our operating results may be adversely affected. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of the periodic future management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Internal control weaknesses could also cause investors, as well as our clients and staffing suppliers, to lose confidence in our reported financial information. 12 Royalty payments received primarily from StaffChex and Select constitute a significant portion of our revenues, and an adverse effect on our relationship with these companies could cause our revenues to decrease. The majority of our revenues are generated from royalty payments made pursuant to agreements with StaffChex and Select. An adverse effect on our relationship with any of these companies could cause our revenues to decrease, which may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, see Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Contingencies and Litigation” and “—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of our dispute with Select and the amendment of our iLabor agreement with StaffChex, respectively. If iLabor does not gain market acceptance, it may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. iLabor constitutes the major component of our business model and business plan. In 2008, we transitioned from the temporary staffing model to our iLabor technology platform to enable our clients to procure temporary labor through a ClearPoint approved staffing supplier network. Due to the transition of our business from the temporary staffing model to the iLabor Network, for the year ended December 31, 2008, revenues from the iLabor Network constituted less than 1% of our revenue. Because it has been recently introduced, our iLabor model has not been proven in the market and there is no assurance that it will result in sustainable revenues for us. If iLabor does not gain market acceptance, it may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Possible contingent liabilities related to the liabilities and assets of workers’ compensation insurance policies sold pursuant to certain transactions we entered into in connection with our transition to the new business model could result in a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations if those contingent liabilities were realized. We believe that the transfer of the liabilities and assets of the workers’ compensation policies pursuant to agreements with the parties that acquired MVI and ClearPoint HRO, LLC, referred to as HRO, would eliminate the liability associated with workers’ compensation claims resulting from our previous staffing agency operations. Additionally, no claims for these workers’ compensation claims have yet been asserted against us. However, there may be potential contingent liabilities resulting from such claims and such liabilities, if realized, could result in a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations because we no longer maintain any reserves for liabilities and assets related to the transferred workers’ compensation claims. Financial and operating covenants in our loan agreements with ComVest and M&T may reduce our operating flexibility, which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The loan agreement with ComVest related to our revolving credit facility and term note and/or the loan modification and restructure agreement with M&T contain various financial covenants as well as covenants that restrict our ability to, among other matters: · incur other indebtedness; 13 · create liens or other encumbrances on our assets; · enter into any merger or consolidation transaction; · sell, lease, assign or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our property, business or assets; · sell or assign our accounts receivable, promissory notes or trade acceptances; · utilize the cash proceeds arising from our accounts receivable; · make any investment in, or otherwise acquire or hold securities, or make loans or advances, or enter into any arrangement for the purpose of providing funds or credit; · make acquisitions or investments; · amend our organizational documents; and · pay dividends or make other distributions on our capital stock. These restrictions may limit our ability to obtain future financing, make capital expenditures or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise from time to time. Our ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, such as general economic conditions. Pursuant to the terms of the loan agreements with ComVest and M&T, the failure to comply with covenants constitutes an event of default, including as a result of cross default provisions, and entitles the lenders to, among other remedies, declare the loans due and payable. If our lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings or exercise other remedies available to them in the event of default, it will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to various lawsuits, the impact of which on our financial position and results of operations is uncertain. The inherent uncertainty related to litigation and the preliminary stage of some of these matters makes it difficult to predict the ultimate outcome or potential liability that we may incur as a result. On November 18, 2008, AICCO, Inc., referred to as AICCO, filed a complaint the Court of Common Pleas of Bucks County, Pennsylvania against us alleging that AICCO agreed to finance premiums of certain insurance policies we procured pursuant to a certain premium finance agreement among AICCO and us. AICCO claims that we breached the terms of such agreement by failing to make certain installment payments and seeks damages in excess of approximately $600, together with interest and attorney’s fees and costs. On December 23, 2008, we filed an answer in this matter and joined two additional defendants on January 23, 2009. The joined defendants filed their answer to our complaint on March 27, 2009. We contend that the joined defendants are liable for the installment payments pursuant to an agreement governing the sale of HRO. We alleged breach of contract against the joined defendants and seek contribution and indemnification from such parties in this matter. On November 10, 2008, XL Specialty Insurance Company, referred to as XL, filed a complaint in the Supreme Court of the State of New York (New York County), and, on December 9, 2008, XL filed an amended complaint, referred to as the XL Complaint, alleging that, among other things, XL issued workers’ compensation insurance policies to ClearPoint Advantage, LLC, our wholly-owned subsidiary and referred to as CP Advantage, during 2007 and CP Advantage failed to make certain payments with regard to claims made against CP Advantage under the policies and maintain collateral required by the insurance policy documents. XL seeks to recover from us, as a guarantor of CP Advantage’s obligations under the insurance policies, $746, in the aggregate, in connection with certain claims against and pursuant to the collateral obligations of, CP Advantage. XL, in addition to damages, seeks pre-judgment interest, attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses and such other relief deemed proper by the court. We filed our answer in this matter on February 17, 2009 and contend that a third party is liable for the payments under the insurance policies pursuant to an agreement governing the sale of HRO. This litigation is currently moving into the discovery phase. 14 On or about June 25, 2008, Sunz Insurance Company, referred to as Sunz, filed a complaint in the Circuit Court of the 9th Judicial Circuit (Orange County, Florida) against ALS d/b/a ClearPoint HR, LLC and CP Advantage. Sunz claims to have provided workers compensation insurance to ALS and CP Advantage and that such policy was cancelled on February 22, 2008, for alleged nonpayment of funds due under the insurance contract. Sunz claims that ALS and CP Advantage owe in excess of $500 under the policy. Sunz, in addition to damages, seeks pre-judgment interest, court costs, attorneys’ fees and such other relief deemed proper by the court. On February 9, 2009, the court ordered Sunz to conduct an audit of ALS and CP Advantage and set this matter for mandatory mediation. On March 3, 2009, ALS and CP Advantage answered Sunz’s allegations and denied any liability. On April 25, 2008, Alliance Consulting Group Associates, Inc., referred to as Alliance, filed a complaint in the Court of Common Pleas (Montgomery County, Pennsylvania) against CPR alleging that CPR failed to honor certain of its contractual obligations to pay Alliance for services rendered under a Professional Services Master Agreement, dated June 18, 2007. Namely, Alliance alleged that CPR failed to pay approximately $600. Alliance seeks damages in the amount of approximately $600, plus interest, costs and attorneys’ fees and such other relief deemed proper by the court. CPR filed an answer and counterclaim on June 16, 2008. In its counterclaim, CPR alleged in a breach of contract claim that Alliance had failed to deliver certain computer programming and consulting services according to specifications and that CPR had to expend certain monies to fix the resulting problems. On or about July 2, 2008, Alliance answered CPR’s counterclaim denying the allegations. This litigation is currently in the discovery phase. On September 21, 2007, TSIL, which claims to be a captive reinsurance company offering workers’ compensation insurance to its shareholders through an insurance program, filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court in Florida against ALS and certain other related parties alleging that it was owed at least $2,161 in unpaid insurance assessments, as well as other requested damages. We are also named as a defendant because we acquired certain assets from ALS in February 2007, for which we paid a portion of the purchase price at closing to the named defendants, through ALS. It is alleged that this transfer rendered Advantage Services Group II, LLC, one of the named insureds on the TSIL policy, insolvent and unable to pay the insurance assessments and damages owed to TSIL. TSIL requested in its complaint that its damages be satisfied from the assets transferred to us. Agreements related to our acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of ALS in February 2007 contain provisions under which we may seek indemnification from ALS in connection with the foregoing. On January 11, 2008, we filed an answer denying all claims and filed a crossclaim against ALS making claims for contractual and common law indemnity. ALS filed its answer to our crossclaim, denying all claims, and filed a counterclaim asking for a declaratory judgment that it does not have to indemnify us and asserting a breach of contract claim based on an alleged failure to pay ALS certain amounts due under a promissory note arising out of the acquisition of certain assets and liabilities of ALS in February 2007. The court entered an order, dated February 22, 2008, requiring us not to make any payments to ALS pursuant to the purchase agreement without first seeking leave of court. On or about June 20, 2008, we entered into a letter agreement with ALS whereby the parties agreed that ALS may defend and would indemnify us in connection with the litigation involving TSIL and that the parties will take all appropriate actions to dismiss their claims against each other with respect to the TSIL litigation. ALS did not elect to provide a defense to us, and we remain represented by our own counsel. Pursuant to the letter agreement, ALS is obligated to indemnify us against TSIL’s claims, and reimburse us for legal fees up to $300. On November 21, 2008, a joint stipulation for voluntary dismissal was filed with the court pursuant to which we and ALS jointly dismissed such claims with prejudice. On December 8, 2008, the court entered an order dismissing all claims between us and ALS with prejudice. The litigation among TSIL and ALS is currently concluding its fact discovery phase and commencing its expert discovery phase. 15 We believe that we have several defenses to the claims raised in these matters and intend to vigorously defend them. Due to the inherent uncertainties in litigation and because the ultimate resolution of these proceedings is influenced by factors outside of our control, we are currently unable to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters or their impact on our financial position or results of operations. Although we accrued for certain of the liability exposures for these matters on our balance sheet, an adverse decision in these matters may result in a material adverse effect on our liquidity, capital resources and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that our management has been required to participate in or otherwise devote substantial amounts of time to the defense of these matters, such activities would result in the diversion of our management resources from our business operations and the implementation of our business strategy, which may negatively impact our financial position and results of operations. For additional information regarding these matters, see Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Seasonality causes fluctuations in our revenue and operating results. Our clients are concentrated in the transportation and retail industries. Accordingly, our liquidity and results of operations depend on the trends affecting such industries and the business cycles of these clients that impact their continued demand for temporary staffing. Historically, we have experienced a rise in demand from our transportation and retail clients in the third and fourth quarter due to the increase in the shipment of products for the holiday season. The first quarter has been traditionally the slowest quarter from a revenue perspective due to national holidays and client planning cycles. Inclement weather can cause a slowdown in our business due to business shutdowns by our clients. Lower demand for temporary staffing related to seasonal or other trends affecting our clients could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. We may be unable to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights or keep up with that of our competitors. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the protection of our intellectual property rights in our e-procurement platforms, including our software and other proprietary information and material, and our ability to develop technologies that are as good as or better than our competitors. We may be unable to deter infringement or misappropriation of our software and other proprietary information and material, detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Additionally, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our competitors could, without violating our intellectual property rights, develop technologies that are as good as or better than our technology. Protecting our intellectual property and other proprietary rights can be expensive. Any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and consequently harm our operating results. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights in our software and other information and material or to develop technologies that are as good as or better than our competitors’ could put us at a disadvantage to our competitors. These failures could have a material adverse effect on our business. 16 The success of our iLabor Network depends on the continued growth in the use of the Internet and the adequacy of the Internet infrastructure. The success of our iLabor Network is substantially dependent upon continued growth in the use of the Internet. The number of clients using the Internet for temporary staffing purposes may not increase for a number of reasons, including: · actual or perceived lack of security of information or privacy protection; · possible disruptions, computer viruses or other damage to Internet servers or to users’ computers; · governmental regulation; · lack of access to high-speed communications equipment; and · increases in the cost of accessing the Internet. As currently configured, the Internet may not support an increase in the number or requirements of users. In addition, there have been outages and delays on the Internet as a result of damage to the current infrastructure. The amount of traffic on our e-procurement platforms could decline materially if there are outages or delays in the future. The use of the Internet may also decline if there are delays in the development or adoption of modifications by third parties that are required to support increased levels of activity on the Internet. If any of the foregoing occurs, the number of clients using the iLabor Network could decrease. In addition, we may be required to spend significant capital to adapt our operations to any new or emerging technologies relating to the Internet. If we do not respond to rapid technological changes, our services, proprietary technology and systems may become noncompetitive or obsolete. We currently provide software and technology platforms for the procurement of temporary labor by our clients. We utilize our proprietary software and technology solutions, including iLabor and VMS, to provide temporary staffing solutions to our clients. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, we spent approximately $446 on software development activities related to our iLabor and VMS solutions. If we do not invest a significant portion of our capital to continuously develop, upgrade and customize our iLabor and VMS platforms, we may be unable to compete effectively. Due to the costs and management time required to introduce new services and enhancements, we may be unable to respond to rapid technological changes in a timely manner. If competitors introduce new services using new technologies or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our services and proprietary technology and systems may become noncompetitive and our ability to attract and retain clients and new suppliers may be at risk. In addition, developing our proprietary technology entails significant technological and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively or fail to adapt our technology to meet the requirements of clients and suppliers or emerging industry standards. Finally, the new technologies may be challenging to develop and implement and may cause us to incur substantial costs. We are subject to various regulations of government authorities. Our failure to comply with such regulations or changes in existing regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our services are subject to various federal, state and local regulations. For example, our services may be subject to various state and local tax regulations. Some or all of our services are subject to federal and state consumer protection laws and regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices. 17 We are also subject to regulations applicable to businesses conducting online commerce. Presently, there are relatively few laws specifically directed toward online services. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, it is possible that laws and regulations will be adopted with respect to the Internet or online services. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as online contracts, user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content and quality of services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. Our failure to comply with existing legislation or any new legislation affecting our services could have a material adverse effect on our business. We operate in a highly competitive industry and may be unable to compete effectively, which may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly competitive industry in which barriers to entry are low. We will need to maintain and update our product offering to remain competitive in the industry. Although we are not aware of any other products similar to ours currently in the market, other companies are able to develop and introduce products which would compete directly with us. To the extent that other companies have broader financial resources available to them, they may be able to bring a product to market and maintain it with more resources than we have available. We also run the risk of large suppliers working directly with potential clients and establishing relationships that would preclude the use of our iLabor Network. Interruptions or delays in service from our iLabor and VMS platforms could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We provide much of our services, including iLabor and VMS, through computer hardware and software that is hosted at a remote third-party site located in New Jersey. All web-hosting and other technology distribution facilities are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. These facilities are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of terrorism, vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite precautions that we take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, act of terrorism or other unanticipated problem at the facility where our technology is hosted could result in lengthy interruptions in our service, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on our senior management and the continued performance and productivity of our approved supplier base; the loss of their services could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are highly dependent on the continued efforts of the members of our senior management as well as the performance and productivity of our supplier base. The loss of any of the members of our senior management may cause a significant disruption in our business. In addition, the loss of any staffing suppliers in our supplier base may jeopardize existing client relationships with businesses that use our services based on relationships with these suppliers. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or suppliers in our supplier base could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our staffing suppliers fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, it may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon our staffing suppliers’ ability to attract and retain qualified temporary and full-time personnel who possess the skills and experience necessary to meet the staffing requirements of our clients. Our suppliers must continually evaluate and upgrade their base of available qualified personnel to keep pace with changing client needs and emerging technologies. Furthermore, a substantial number of their temporary employees during any given year may terminate their employment with them and accept regular staff employment with our clients. Competition for individuals, especially qualified transportation personnel, with proven skills remains intense, and demand for these individuals is expected to remain strong for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that qualified personnel will continue to be available to our suppliers in sufficient numbers. If our suppliers are unable to attract the necessary qualified personnel for our clients, it may have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Our staffing suppliers may be exposed to employment-related claims and costs that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our staffing suppliers are in the business of employing people and placing them in the workplace of our clients. Attendant risks of these activities include, but are not limited to: · possible claims by clients of employee misconduct or negligence; · claims by employees of discrimination or harassment (including claims relating to actions of our clients); · fines and costs related to the inadvertent employment of illegal aliens; · payment of workers’ compensation claims and other similar claims; · violations of wage and hour requirements; · errors and omissions of temporary employees (this would include claims of negligence due to a temporary employee’s lack of intimate familiarity with a client’s operations); and · claims by clients relating to employees’ misuse of client proprietary information, misappropriation of funds, other criminal activity or torts or similar claims. Some or all of these claims may give rise to litigation which could include us as a named party, which could be time-consuming to our management team as well as costly to us. Such claims could also materially negatively affect our suppliers’ business and financial position, which could adversely impact the viability of our supplier network. Therefore, such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, there may also be negative publicity with respect to these problems that could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Investment in Our Common Stock Voting control by our directors and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval. As of March 23, 2009, Vahan Kololian, our lead director, Michael D. Traina, our Chairman of the board of directors and Chief Executive Officer, and Optos Capital, LLC, controlled by Christopher Ferguson and referred to as Optos, beneficially owned 24.2%, 23.0% and 16.6% of our common stock, respectively. Accordingly, such stockholders may be able to control the election of directors and, therefore, our policies and direction. In addition, this concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market price for their shares of common stock. See “—Anti-takeover provisions to which we may be subject may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders.” 19 Quotation of our securities on The OTC Bulletin Board may adversely affect the liquidity of our common stock and limit our ability to raise capital. Trading in our securities on The Nasdaq Capital Market, referred to as Nasdaq, was suspended in September, 2008. Our securities were delisted from Nasdaq effective at the opening of the trading session on November 24, 2008. We currently have our securities quoted on The OTC Bulletin Board. This market is generally considered to be less efficient than, and not as liquid as, Nasdaq. You may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our securities quoted on The OTC Bulletin Board. Certain institutional investors may no longer be able to retain their interests in and/or make further investments in our securities because of their internal rules and protocols. Broker-dealers may be less willing or able to sell and/or make a market in our common stock. Although shares of our common stock are quoted on The OTC Bulletin Board, there is not presently an active market for shares of our common stock and, therefore, you may be unable to sell any shares of common stock in the event that you need a source of liquidity. The trading in our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the trading in the securities of many other companies quoted on The OTC Bulletin Board. A public trading market in our common stock having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the market of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. In the event an active market for the shares of our common stock does not develop, you may be unable to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you paid for them or at any price. In addition, offerings of our securities are subject to state securities laws. The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, referred to as the NSMIA, which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as covered securities. Because our common stock is not listed on any exchange, our securities may not be deemed covered securities under certain provisions of the NSMIA and we may be subject to regulation in each state in which we offer securities. Compliance with such regulations may require significant resources and materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital through sales of our securities. Our common stock may be subject to the “penny stock” rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which make transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our common stock. Under the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, referred to as the SEC, “penny stock” means, for the purposes relevant to us, any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. As of March 23, 2009, the last reported sale price per share of our common stock was $0.24 and trading in shares of our common stock may be subject to “penny stock” rules. Subject to certain exemptions, the penny stock rules established by the SEC impose additional sales practices on broker-dealers and require that a broker or dealer: · approve an investor’s account for transactions in penny stocks; and · receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction. In order to approve a person’s account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: · obtain information regarding the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and objectives; and 20 · make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stock are suitable for that investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver to the investor, prior to any transactions in penny stock, a written statement which sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination described above. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the “penny stock” rules. In addition, the mark-ups or commissions charged by the broker-dealers may be greater than any profit a seller may make and investors may be unable to reap any profit from any sale of the stock, if they can sell it at all. Failure to remain eligible for quotation on The OTC Bulletin Board may require us to transfer our securities to the Pink Sheets®, which would adversely affect the liquidity, trading market and price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. If we fail to remain eligible for quotation on The OTC Bulletin Board, our securities will be removed from The OTC Bulletin Board following a certain grace period. Although we are currently eligible for quotation, there is no assurance that we will always satisfy The OTC Bulletin Board’s quotation requirements. If our securities are removed from The OTC Bulletin Board and we fail to meet the listing standards of a national securities exchange, we would try to have our securities quoted on the Pink Sheets® operated by Pink OTC Markets Inc. The quotation of our common stock on the Pink Sheets® may reduce the price of our common stock and the liquidity of our securities. In addition, the quotation of our common stock on the Pink Sheets® may materially adversely affect our ability to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our stock price may be subject to significant volatility and could suffer a decline in value. The stock market in general and the market for technology-related stocks in particular has been highly volatile. As a result, the market price of our common stock is likely to be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their stock, including decreases unrelated to our operating performance or prospects. During 2007, our common stock was particularly volatile as the price of our common stock ranged from a high of $6.47 to a low of $1.60. During 2008, the price of our common stock ranged from a high of $2.94 to a low of $0.02. We believe that many factors, including several which are beyond our control, have a significant effect on the market price of our common stock and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These factors include, but are not limited to, those listed in this “Risk Factors” section and the following: · changes in general economic conditions and the overall performance of the equity markets; · announcements of new technologies or services by us or our competitors; · announcements relating to strategic relationships or acquisitions; · developments with respect to intellectual property rights; · publication of unfavorable research reports about us or our industry; · coverage or lack of coverage by securities analysts; · significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of software companies in general, and human resources software companies in particular; 21 · actual or anticipated changes in laws and government regulations; · changes in industry trends or conditions; · departures of key personnel; and · sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock or other securities in the market. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for technology-related stocks in particular has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly, and these fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall. As a result of fluctuations in our revenue and operating expenses, our quarterly operating results may vary significantly. We may not be able to curtail our spending quickly enough if our revenue falls short of our expectations. We expect that our operating expenses will increase substantially in the future as we expand our selling and marketing activities, increase our new product development efforts and hire additional personnel. Our operating results may fluctuate in the future as a result of factors including, but not limited to, the following: · our ability to increase services sold to existing clients, attract new clients and suppliers, cross-sell our solutions and satisfy our clients’ requirements; · changes in our pricing policies; · the introduction of new features to our solutions; · the rate of expansion and effectiveness of our sales force; · new product and service introductions by our competitors; · concentration of marketing expenses for activities, such as trade shows and advertising campaigns; · concentration of research and development costs; and · concentration of expenses associated with commissions earned on sales. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful as our future revenue and results of operations may vary substantially. It is also possible that in future quarters our results of operations will be below the expectations of securities market analysts and investors. In either case, the price of our common stock could decline materially. 22 Issuance of shares of our common stock upon the exercise of our options, warrants and units may cause significant dilution of equity interests of existing holders of common stock, reduce the proportionate voting power of existing holders of common stock and could potentially reduce the market value of our common stock. As of March 23, 2009, 14,251,964 shares of our common stock were outstanding. We have reserved 2,750,000 shares of common stock in connection with our 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan, referred to as our 2006 plan, under which options to purchase 1,002,008 shares of common stock were outstanding as of March 23, 2009. We have also reserved approximately 15,635,825 shares of common stock for issuance in connection with previously issued options and warrants that are exercisable into common stock, including: 240,000 shares included as part of the units in the unit purchase option granted to the representative of the underwriters in connection with our initial public offering in April 2005, referred to as our 2005 public offering; 480,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants included as part of the unit purchase option granted to the underwriters’ representative; 11,040,000 shares underlying the warrants issued in our 2005 public offering; 165,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants we issued to certain note holders; 2,210,825 shares issuable upon the exercise of a warrant issued to ComVest, referred to as the ComVest warrant; and 1,500,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants issued to M&T. In addition, we reserved 900,000 shares for issuance to Blue Lake Rancheria, referred to as Blue Lake, under our escrow agreement with Blue Lake, and in 2009, 100,000 shares for issuance upon exercise of a warrant to be issued to XRoads Solutions Group, LLC, referred to as XRoads. Should existing holders of options, warrants or units exercisable into shares of our common stock exercise such securities into shares of our common stock, it may cause significant dilution of equity interests of existing holders of common stock, reduce the proportionate voting power of existing holders of common stock and reduce the value of our common stock and outstanding warrants. Under our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, referred to as our certificate of incorporation, as of March 23, 2009, we had approximately 24,360,211 shares of our common stock available for future issuances, which issuances would cause further dilution to our stockholders and further reduce the value of our common stock. A substantial number of our outstanding shares of common stock or shares issuable upon the exercise of options, warrants and units are eligible for future sale, and the sale of our shares of common stock into the market may depress our stock price. Our stock price may be depressed by future sales of our shares of common stock or the perception that future sales may occur. As of March 23, 2009, 20,030,000 shares of our common stock have previously been registered with the SEC, including 2,750,000 shares reserved under our 2006 plan, 240,000 shares included as part of the units in the unit purchase option granted to the underwriters’ representative, 480,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants included as part of the unit purchase option granted to the underwriters’ representative, 5,520,000 shares included as part of the units issued in our 2005 public offering and 11,040,000 shares underlying the warrants issued in our 2005 public offering. In addition, we have registered for resale 2,210,825 shares issuable upon the exercise of the ComVest warrant and 1,500,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of the warrants issued to M&T. Further, there are currently additional unregistered shares of common stock that may be sold under Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act. We are unable to estimate the amount, timing or nature of future sales of common stock. Sales of substantial additional amounts of common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, may lower the common stock’s market price. Anti-takeover provisions to which we may be subject may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us, even if the change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or GCL, our certificate of incorporation, and our Amended and Restated Bylaws, referred to as our bylaws, could hinder or delay a change in control of our company, including transactions in which holders of common stock might otherwise receive a premium over the market price of their shares at the time of the transaction. For example, our certificate of incorporation establishes a classified or “staggered” board of directors, which means that only approximately one third of our directors is required to stand for election at each annual meeting of our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue 60,000,000 shares of common stock and 1,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. No shares of preferred stock were outstanding as of March 23, 2009. As of March 23, 2009, 14,251,964 shares of common stock were outstanding and 19,385,825 shares of common stock were reserved for issuance upon the exercise of our options, warrants and units, and under our 2006 plan, in connection with our obligations under the escrow agreement with Blue Lake and the warrant issued to XRoads. Therefore, under our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors may issue up to 26,460,211 additional shares of common stock or issue preferred stock convertible into shares of common stock, which could significantly dilute the ownership of a potential acquirer. Also, pursuant to our bylaws, it may be difficult for the potential acquirer to call a special meeting of our stockholders because only a majority of the board of directors, our Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, or Secretary acting at the request of the stockholders owning a majority of our capital stock entitled to vote may call a special meeting of stockholders. For a discussion of the anti-takeover effect of the voting control by our directors and other affiliates, see “—Voting control by our directors and other affiliates may limit your ability to influence the outcome of director elections and other matters requiring stockholder approval.” 23 We may issue shares of preferred stock that could be entitled to dividends, liquidation preferences and other special rights and preferences not shared by holders of our common stock. We are authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. We may issue shares of preferred stock in one or more series as our board of directors may from time to time determine without stockholder approval. The voting powers, preferences and other special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of each such series of preferred stock may differ from each other. The issuance of any such series of preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and could reduce the value of our common stock. We do not pay cash dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. We are subject to contractual limitations on the payment of dividends under our loan agreement with ComVest, our loan modification and restructure agreement with M&T, and the GCL. As a Delaware corporation, we may not declare and pay dividends on our capital stock if the amount paid exceeds an amount equal to the surplus, which represents the excess of our net assets over paid-in-capital or, if there is no surplus, our net profits for the current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year. Under applicable Delaware case law, dividends may not be paid on our common stock if we become insolvent or the payment of dividends will render us insolvent. We do not pay, and we do not anticipate paying, any cash dividends on the common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, any gains on your investment in our common stock will depend on increases in the stock price, which may or may not occur. 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 