ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following factors that may affect our business, future operating results and financial condition, as well as other information included in this Annual Report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our operating results are subject to fluctuations that may cause our stock price to decline. We have reported net losses for the past four years. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to do so in the future. Our revenues are unpredictable and may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to changes in rates of customer acquisition and retention, the cyclical nature of the real estate industry, and other factors outside of our control. In addition, our expenses and revenues may fluctuate from quarter to quarter due to, among other factors, the timing of sales and marketing campaigns. Our reported net losses have included significant impairment charges due in part to the decline in our business and our lower market capitalization. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our past operating results may not be good indicators of our future performance and should not be relied on to predict the future performance of our stock price. It is possible that in the future our operating results will not meet the expectations of investors, causing the market price of our common stock to decline. In the past, companies that have experienced decreases in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. A securities class action lawsuit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns. 9 Table of Contents Our operating results have been and may continue to be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the real estate industry. Our business is dependent on the health of the residential real estate industry. The residential real estate market historically has been subject to economic cycles. An economic slowdown or recession, adverse tax policies, lower availability of credit, increased interest rates, or other factors that impact consumer confidence could decrease demand for residential real estate. For example, our revenues have declined over the past three years due in part to the national downturn in the real estate industry, including a decrease in the number of real estate professionals, and the economic slowdown. Trends in the real estate industry are unpredictable; therefore, our operating results, to the extent they reflect changes in the broader real estate industry, may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations. We may be unable to compete successfully with our current or future competitors. We operate in a highly competitive environment and expect that competition will continue to be intense. The barriers to entry in our industry are low, making it possible for current or new competitors to adopt certain aspects of our business model without great financial expense, thereby reducing our ability to differentiate our services. All of our services, including online lead generation, online prospect management, online real estate portal content and advertising, and customer coaching and training, are provided in part or in combination by other companies. One or more of these companies, or a new market entrant, could adopt a business model that competes directly with us, which could have an adverse impact on our business and operating results. See Item 1 – “Business—Competition” for a discussion of our competitors. Many of our existing and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, greater technological capabilities or greater financial, sales, marketing and human resources than we do. These competitors could do any of the following, which could adversely impact our business and operating results: • develop services that are as effective as or superior to our services or that achieve greater market acceptance than do our services; • devote greater resources to marketing or selling their services; • withstand price competition more successfully than we can; • make more attractive offers to existing and potential employees or independent contractors than we do; • more effectively negotiate third-party arrangements; and • take advantage of investments, acquisitions or other opportunities more readily than we can. Any efforts to expand into new lines of business and offer new products may not be successful, or may take longer than expected to complete. New initiatives we may pursue may not be successful or the anticipated benefits may take longer to realize than expected. Also, we may have little or no experience in these areas which may result in errors in the conception, structure or implementation of a strategy to take advantage of available opportunities. We cannot assure you that any new products or other expansion efforts will be successful. Any failure to increase the number of our customers would harm our business. Growth of our business depends in large part on increasing the number of our customers. However, prospective customers may not be familiar with our services and may be accustomed to using traditional methods of advertising and marketing. To attract more customers, we must convince real estate professionals to spend a portion of their advertising and marketing budgets on our services. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing to acquire customers or that we will be able to acquire them at the same rate that we have historically. If we reach the point at which we have attempted to sell our services to the majority of 10 Table of Contents residential real estate professionals, our ability to further increase the number of customers could be limited. We may not know or be able to estimate when we have reached this point because we currently cannot reliably estimate the total number of residential real estate professionals that are actively engaged in the industry during any particular period and media reports indicate that the total number of real estate professionals are expected to decline because of the ongoing negative trends in the real estate industry. Any failure to retain customers could harm our business. Our ability to retain our customers will depend on our ability to generate web site traffic and leads from prospective home buyers and sellers in quantities demanded by our customers, to enhance our existing services, develop new technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of customers, respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices in a timely manner and on a cost effective basis. If we do not deliver the web site traffic or quantity and quality of leads expected by our customers, maintain adequate technical support levels, or continue to improve the ease of use, functionality and features of our prospect management systems, customer coaching and training offerings, or if customers are dissatisfied with the quality of the leads that we provide, our customers may choose not to extend their contracts for our services or may choose to terminate their contracts. Real estate professionals remain customers typically only for a limited period of time, and we have limited ability to predict how long they will remain customers. The majority of our customer contracts have an initial term of twelve months, with automatic one-month extensions unless terminated by either party. Some customers have decided not to extend their contracts due to their inability to convert the leads we have provided into closed transactions, due to their dissatisfaction with our services, or their inability to pay for our services. We cannot accurately predict how long real estate professionals will remain customers. Acquisitions we may undertake may be unsuccessful and may divert our management’s attention and consume significant resources. We may selectively acquire other businesses, product lines or technologies. The successful execution of an acquisition strategy will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable acquisitions and, if necessary, to obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: • difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of the business; • inability to maintain the key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses; • entry into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors have stronger market positions; • dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • reduction or replacement of the sales of existing services by sales of products or services from acquired lines of business; • responsibility for the liabilities of acquired businesses; • inability to maintain our internal standards, controls, procedures and policies; and • potential loss of key employees of the acquired companies. 11 Table of Contents Acquisitions may not be successful, and if we are unable to effectively manage the risks described above or other risks we encounter, our business, operating results or financial condition may be negatively affected. For example, we acquired The Loan Page in October 2005 as part of our strategic objective to capitalize on the synergies between real estate and mortgage professionals. Due to deteriorating market conditions, operational challenges, and increasing competition in this market, we did not meet our financial objectives and decided in January 2007 to discontinue the semi-exclusive lead product we obtained as part of that acquisition. Our revenues were lower in 2007 due in part to this decision, and we recorded a significant impairment loss in 2006 related to that acquisition. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky, and we cannot assure you that our acquisitions will be successful. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquired businesses could harm our business. We may be required to take an impairment charge for goodwill or other long-lived assets, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We have acquired certain portions of our business through acquisitions and may continue to pursue acquisitions of other companies as part of our long-term business strategy. In connection with prior acquisitions, we have accounted for the portion of the purchase price paid in excess of the fair value of the net assets acquired as goodwill and may be required to do so for future acquisitions. Additionally, we have invested in other long-lived assets designed to enhance our product offerings or assist in achieving our business plan for our company. Under the applicable accounting rules, goodwill is not amortized and is carried on our books at its original value, subject to periodic review and evaluation for impairment, whereas intangible and fixed assets are amortized or depreciated over the life of the asset. Our common stock was trading below our book value per share at the end of 2008. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge to goodwill of $4.9 million in 2008 which eliminated the remaining balance. We expect to conduct further impairment reviews of our other long-lived assets. If, as a result of our periodic review and evaluation of our other long-lived assets for potential impairment, we determine that changes in the business itself, the economic environment including business valuation levels and trends, or the legislative or regulatory environment have adversely affected either the fair value of the business or the fair value of our assets, we may be required to take additional impairment charges. If market and economic conditions deteriorate further, this could increase the likelihood that we will need to record additional impairment charges. While we have a plan to restore our business fundamentals to levels that would support our book value per share, we have no assurance that the plan will be achieved or that the market price of our common stock will increase to such levels in the foreseeable future. In that event, we may be required to take an impairment charge to the extent the carrying value of our net assets exceed the fair value of our overall business, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We rely almost entirely on advertising to generate leads for customers. We rely heavily on advertising to attract consumers to our web sites and to generate traffic and leads. We advertise primarily through online media and television commercials. Business Risks Associated with Online Advertising. We rely on online media to attract a significant percentage of the consumers visiting our web sites. Prices for online advertising have increased as a result of increased demand for advertising inventory, which has caused our expenses to increase and has resulted in lower margins. Our advertising contracts with online search engines are typically short-term. If one or more search engines on which we rely for advertising modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our expenses could further increase, the number of leads we generate could decrease and our revenues or margins could decline. 12 Table of Contents Business Risks Associated with Television Advertising. Television advertising rates depend on a number of factors, including the strength of the national economy and regional economies and the strength of certain industries that advertise frequently. Advertising rates are also subject to cyclical and seasonal fluctuations. If television advertising prices increase significantly or if the effectiveness of this advertising declines, in the absence of more efficient ways to generate leads, our marketing expenses will also increase, which would harm our results of operations. If we are required to drive additional traffic for an increasing customer base or if the number of leads that we are required to deliver increases, we may be required to increase the levels of advertising to meet those requirements. Increasing our advertising expenditures may not result in increases in traffic or leads. If the effectiveness of our advertising declines, our business will suffer. We may invest our cash in securities that become illiquid or that significantly decrease in value. We may invest our cash in securities that are affected by adverse market conditions. Current market conditions and lack of investor confidence have led to reduced liquidity in securities that had previously been viewed as more liquid. As a result, our investments may decline in value, or we may not be able to access our cash equivalents or short-term investments when needed for strategic investment purposes or for operations and capital expenditures. Loss of cash value and inability to access funds would harm our business. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims. Other companies, including our current or potential competitors, could make claims against us alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. We have been subject to and expect to continue to be subject to, claims regarding alleged infringement by us of the patents, trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. Any intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming and expensive to litigate or settle, and could significantly divert management’s attention from other business concerns. We may need to obtain licenses from third parties who allege that we have infringed their rights, but such licenses may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our technologies and content may not be able to withstand third-party claims or rights against their use. If we were unable to successfully defend against such claims, we may have to pay damages, stop using the technology or content found to be in violation of a third party’s rights, seek a license for the infringing technology or content, or develop alternative non-infringing technology or content. If we are required to obtain a license for the infringing technology or content, it may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, developing alternative non-infringing technology or content could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology or content for any infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our service offerings. Any of these results could reduce our ability to compete effectively and harm our business. Our trademarks are important to our business. Other companies may own, obtain or claim trademarks that could prevent, limit or interfere with our use of trademarks. If we were unable to use these trademarks, our business would be harmed and we would need to devote substantial resources toward developing different brand identities. Our business model is evolving and our future operating results are unpredictable. The success of our business model depends on our ability to attract new and retain existing customers and to efficiently generate traffic and leads. Any failure to execute this strategy could harm our business. Our business model is constantly evolving. Further, because our newer Vision-based products allow customers to adjust their advertising expenditure as business needs dictate, our revenue may become more variable. Additionally, because the margin on advertising revenue is less than that of software subscriptions, overall margins may be more variable and lower depending upon the mix of advertising revenue. 13 Table of Contents We may have to increase our expenses as we seek to expand our business and diversify our product mix. We cannot assure you that our strategies to return to growth will be successful or that we will return to profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Prospective home buyers and sellers may be reluctant to sign up for our services due to general privacy concerns. Concern among consumers regarding our use of personal information collected on our web sites, such as email addresses, home addresses and geographic preferences, could keep them from using our web sites and thereby reduce the number of leads we generate. Industry-wide events or events with respect to our web sites, including misappropriation of third-party information, security breaches, or changes in industry standards, regulations or laws could deter people from using the Internet or our web sites to conduct transactions that involve the transmission of confidential information, which could harm our business. We rely on the collection, use and disclosure of personally identifiable information from prospective home buyers and sellers and from customers to conduct our business. We disclose our information collection and dissemination practices in a published privacy statement on our web sites, which we may modify from time to time to meet operational needs or changes in the law or industry best practices. We may be subject to legal claims, government action and damage to our reputation if we act or are perceived to be acting inconsistently with the terms of our privacy statement, customer expectations or the law. In addition, concern among real estate professionals or potential home buyers or sellers about our privacy practices could keep them from using our services and require us to alter our business practices or incur significant expenses to educate them about how we use this information. Further, changes in laws and regulations applicable to the privacy of personal information or in the interpretation or enforcement of such laws or regulations, could require us to modify our practices regarding use, collection, protection and disclosure of such information. Any required modifications could result in significant expenses to us. The value of our services could be diminished if anti-spam software filters out emails we send. Our prospect management system includes a feature that automatically sends out personalized email messages to prospective home buyers and sellers on behalf of real estate professionals who are our customers. In addition, we send a large amount of email to real estate professionals as part of our customer acquisition strategy, some of which is unsolicited. In the past, anti-spam software used by Internet service providers and personal computer users has filtered out these email messages as unsolicited email, or “spam.” If this problem persists or becomes more pervasive, the value of our prospect management system to customers, and our ability to attract new customers, could be reduced, both of which would harm our business. In addition, it is possible that we may not currently or in the future fully comply with anti-spam legislation, and any failure to comply with such laws could result in penalties or damage our reputation. We rely on information from real estate multiple listing services provided by third parties that we do not control. The web sites we provide to our Vision customers combine aerial maps and for sale home listings, including listings in most of the major metropolitan markets in the United States. In addition, in selected markets, including most of the major metropolitan markets in the United States, we provide customers with functionality that allows them to automatically email their prospective clients information about newly available homes that meet the prospective clients’ criteria. The for sale home listings information provided by our web sites and the automated email functionality are supplied only in markets in which we, our broker customers, or the broker affiliated with our agent customers have a relationship with the local multiple listing service (MLS). Our agreements with MLSs to display property listings have short terms, or can be terminated by the MLSs, or, in some cases, the broker, with little notice. The success of our products depends in part on our continued ability to provide customers with MLS listings and data, as well as our ability to expand listings in markets in which it is not currently available. Our inability to supply this information will harm our business and operating results. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with the various laws and regulations that govern the real estate industry, our business may be harmed. Our business is governed by various federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the real estate industry, including the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA), the Fair Housing Act, state and local real estate broker licensing laws, federal and state laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive acts and practices, and federal and state advertising laws. We may not have always been and may not always be in compliance with each of these requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements may result in, among other things, revocation of required licenses, indemnification liability to contract counterparties, class action lawsuits, administrative enforcement actions and civil and criminal liability. Due to the geographic scope of our operations and the nature of the services we provide, we may be required to obtain and maintain real estate brokerage licenses in certain states in which we operate. In connection with such licenses, we are required to designate individual licensed brokers of record. We cannot assure you that we are, and will remain at all times, in full compliance with state real estate licensing laws and regulations and we may be subject to fines or penalties in the event of any non-compliance. If in the future a state agency were to determine that we are required to obtain a real estate brokerage license in that state in order to receive payments or commissions from real estate professionals, or if we lose the services of a designated broker, we may be subject to fines or legal penalties or our business operations in that state may be suspended until we obtain the license or replace the designated broker. Any failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may limit our ability to expand into new markets, offer new products or continue to operate in one or more of our current markets. We may be limited in the way in which we market our business or generate revenue by federal law prohibiting referral fees in real estate transactions. RESPA generally prohibits the payment or receipt of fees or any other thing of value for the referral of business related to a residential real estate settlement service, including real estate brokerage services. RESPA also prohibits fee shares or splits or unearned fees in connection with the provision of residential real estate settlement services. However, RESPA expressly permits payments pursuant to cooperative brokerage and referral arrangements or agreements between real estate agents and brokers. In addition, RESPA permits payments for goods or facilities furnished or for services actually performed, so long as those payments bear a reasonable relationship to the market value of the goods or facilities furnished or the services performed, excluding the value of any referrals that may be provided in connection with such goods, facilities or services. Failure to comply with RESPA may result in, among other things, administrative enforcement actions, class action lawsuits, and civil and criminal liability. There has been limited guidance by the appropriate federal regulator or the courts regarding the applicability of RESPA to online marketing relationships for real estate or mortgage services, including those we provide. Nonetheless, RESPA may restrict our ability to enter into marketing and distribution arrangements with third parties, particularly to the extent that such arrangements may be characterized as involving payments for the referral of residential real estate settlement service business. We rely on our sales force to sell our services and increase revenue. Failure to attract, motivate and retain qualified sales personnel may harm our business. We have high productivity standards for our sales personnel, which in the past has resulted in relatively high turnover. This turnover has required us to expend a substantial amount of time and money to replace sales persons as we expand our business. Competition for qualified sales personnel is intense. Any failure to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified sales personnel could impair our ability to generate new customers, which would harm our business. 15 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed by the actions of third parties over whom we have little or no control. Prospective home buyers and sellers could make a claim against us for the actions of a real estate agent or broker customer over whom we have little or no control. We do not conduct any due diligence or background checks on new customers or seek information regarding their credentials. We may be liable for content provided by customers that is posted on or disseminated through our web sites. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover us for these liabilities, and, to the extent not covered by insurance, these liabilities could reduce our margins and harm our business. Our brand could be harmed if customers do not provide quality service to prospective home buyers and sellers. We rely on real estate professionals who are our customers of our lead generating products to promote our brand by providing high-quality service to prospective home buyers and sellers. We have little control over the activities of customers. If customers do not provide prospective home buyers and sellers with high-quality service, or if they use the functionality of our systems to send unwanted email to prospective home buyers or sellers, our brand value and our ability to generate leads may diminish. Our operating results may be subject to seasonality and may vary significantly among quarters during a calendar year. We are subject to seasonal fluctuations in advertising rates and lead generation. Changing consumer behavior at various times throughout the year affects our advertising expenses. Television advertising is generally more expensive in the fourth calendar quarter in connection with the holiday season. While individual markets vary, real estate transaction activity tends to progressively increase from January through the summer months, and then gradually slows over the last quarter of the calendar year. The real estate industry generally experiences decreased activity toward the end of the year, which may result in slower lead generation and lower growth rates. Throughout the history of our company, our quarterly revenue changes have masked seasonality effects. As a result, investors may be unable to predict our annual operating results based on a quarter-to-quarter comparison of our operating results. Third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or develop similar technology independently. We currently rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality procedures to establish and protect our proprietary rights. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, the value of our services could be diminished and our business may suffer. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technology and on our continuing use of our trademarks. We hold thirteen registered trademarks registered in the United States and three trademarks registered in Canada. We have sought registration for a number of additional trademarks. We have not sought registration for any copyrights. We have not been issued any patents and do not have any pending patent applications. Accordingly, our intellectual property position is more vulnerable than it otherwise would be if it were protected by issued patents, copyrights or additional registered trademarks. We may not receive approval of our various trademark or patent applications, and any trademarks or patents we may be granted may be successfully challenged by others or invalidated. If our trademark or patent applications are not approved or if our trademarks or patents are invalidated, our use of them could be restricted unless we enter into arrangements with these third parties, which might not be possible on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We regard substantial elements of our web sites, software tools and applications and underlying technology as proprietary. Despite our precautionary measures, third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information without authorization or may develop similar technology independently. We may not be 16 Table of Contents able to detect such infringements or may lose any competitive advantage in the market before we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies substantially similar to ours. Unauthorized parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our technology. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Any legal action that we may bring to protect our proprietary information could be unsuccessful and expensive and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses are uncertain and evolving, and we cannot assure you of the future viability or value of any of our proprietary rights. Increased government regulation of the Internet and claims under state consumer protection laws could force us to change the manner in which we conduct our business or result in monetary fines or increased costs. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet could adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. In addition, the growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on us. Laws and regulations relating to communications or commerce over the Internet are becoming more prevalent. In addition, the interpretation and application of laws applicable to the Internet remain largely unsettled, even in areas where there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws, such as those governing intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation, apply to the Internet. New laws and regulations, and changes in the interpretation of existing laws and regulations relating to the Internet, could lead to situations in which we are considered to “operate” or “do business” in states where customers conduct their business, resulting in potential claims or regulatory action. If we are required to comply with new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these laws or regulations, our business could be harmed. Our practices may not have always been and may not always be in compliance with the requirements of Internet-related laws or regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative enforcement actions, class action lawsuits, and civil and criminal liability. We may be subject to claims under state consumer protection statutes if our customers are dissatisfied with the quality of our leads, customer service, training programs or contract cancellation policies. These claims could result in monetary fines or require us to change the manner in which we conduct our business, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Any of these types of claims, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming, could harm our reputation and could be expensive to litigate or settle. Changes in government regulation of advertising and customer solicitation could affect our business. We rely on various marketing channels, such as email and other means of electronic and telephonic communication, to reach real estate professionals and prospective home buyers and sellers and other consumers. The laws governing marketing and advertising continue to evolve and we may be subject to restrictions that limit our ability to continue to operate or expand our business and could result in legal claims or government action. For example, a federal statute places restrictions on unsolicited commercial email, commonly known as “spam,” and imposes obligations upon senders of commercial email. Additionally, state laws governing falsity or deception with regard to email apply in addition to the federal statute. These federal and state laws impose significant civil and criminal penalties for violations. As the interpretation and enforcement of these laws evolve, they may impose burdens on our email marketing practices and affect features of our Customer Relationship Management systems and other services we offer or may offer. In addition, federal and state statutes prohibiting false or deceptive acts in commerce apply to Internet advertising, and some states have passed legislation regulating Internet advertising. The requirements of some of these laws, and their interpretation and enforcement by governmental authorities, are not clear and uniform. These laws may adversely affect our ability to market our services to real estate industry participants in a cost-effective manner and the violation of these laws may result in enforcement actions and penalties or damage our reputation. 17 Table of Contents Our sales activities are or may in the future be subject to laws regulating telemarketing, which could subject us to penalties or limit our ability to market our services. Both federal and state laws regulate the practice of telemarketing and placing other commercial telephone calls. All 50 states have enacted some form of telemarketing law, and federal statutes and regulations place restrictions on live, recorded and text telemarketing calls. In particular, the federal government and a significant number of states have implemented “do not call” lists. In addition, a number of states require telemarketers to register with the state and post a bond, regulate or prohibit automated systems and recorded messages, impose disclosure requirements upon sales calls and require written sales contracts for certain telemarketing transactions. We are subject to certain of these laws, and our failure to register in a jurisdiction where we are required to do so could subject us to penalties, limit our ability to market our services and hamper our ability to enforce contracts in these jurisdictions. Other violations of these laws may damage our reputation and may result in administrative enforcement, fines and civil or criminal penalties. Any failure of our technology to perform satisfactorily could result in lost revenue, damage to our reputation and expenditure of significant resources. Our technology is relatively new and complex and may in the future be subject to errors, defects or performance problems. In addition, we may encounter problems when we update our technology to expand and enhance its capabilities. Our technology may malfunction or suffer from defects that become apparent only after further use. Furthermore, our services could be rendered unreliable or be perceived as unreliable by customers or prospective home buyers and sellers. In such instances, we would need to expend significant resources to address these problems, and may nonetheless be unable to adequately remedy these problems. These problems could result in lost revenue and damage to our reputation. Sustained or repeated system failures could significantly impair our operations and lead to customer dissatisfaction. The continuous and uninterrupted performance of our systems is critical to our success. Our operations depend on our ability to protect these systems against damage from fire, power loss, water, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, viruses, vandalism and other malicious acts and similar unexpected adverse events. Customers and prospective home buyers and sellers may become dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide our services to them. Our services substantially depend on systems provided by third parties, over whom we have little control. Interruptions in our services could result from the failure of telecommunications providers and other third parties to provide the necessary data communications capacity in the time frame required. Our operations depend on our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems, located at our headquarters in Kirkland, Washington and at co-location facilities operated by third parties. We depend on these third-party providers of Internet communication services to provide continuous and uninterrupted service. We also depend on Internet service providers that provide access to our services. Any disruption in the Internet access provided by third-party providers or any failure of third-party providers to handle higher volumes of user traffic could harm our business. Our customers, our reputation and our products may be harmed by security breaches. Unauthorized computer programmers, or hackers, may attempt to penetrate our network security from time to time. A hacker who penetrates our network security could misappropriate personal information about our customers, proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services. We might be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against, or to alleviate, problems caused by hackers. We also may not have a timely remedy against a hacker who is able to penetrate our network security. In addition to purposeful security breaches, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could adversely affect our systems and harm our business. 18 Table of Contents Several payment card brands and an independent standards body have adopted security standards, compliance with which is required of all merchants and service providers that process, transmit or store certain types of personal information pertaining to credit card holders. If we fail to comply with these standards, we could be subject to fines and our ability to accept some or all credit cards could be restricted or suspended. Any such suspension or restriction would significantly affect our ability to collect fees from our customers, many of whom pay with a credit card. This would result in harm to our business. Additionally, the majority of states and various federal regulatory bodies now require companies that maintain personal information about consumers to notify those consumers in the event of a breach of security in which certain types of personal information relating to those consumers is, or is suspected to have been, obtained by an unauthorized person. These laws vary in their scope and requirements, and some of them also require notice to governmental agencies and other third parties. In addition, other public disclosure laws may require that material security breaches be reported. If we are required to disclose a security breach to consumers or other third parties, our business and reputation could be harmed. If we do not have access to additional funds on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue to expand our business or service offerings. To pursue our current and future business plans, we may choose to seek additional funding through public or private financings, including equity financings, and through other arrangements. Poor financial results, unanticipated expenses or unanticipated opportunities that require financial commitments could give rise to additional financing requirements sooner than we expect. However, financing may be unavailable when we need it or may not be available on acceptable terms. Recently, the general economic and capital market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world have deteriorated significantly and have adversely affected access to capital and increased the cost of capital. As a result, we may be unable to obtain financing and may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate expenditures for future strategic initiatives, operations or capital expenditures. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders would be reduced and these securities might have rights superior to those of our common stock. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 