Item 1A. Risk Factors Business Risks We caution the reader that the following business risks and those risks described elsewhere in this report and our other SEC filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expectations stated in our forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Industry A general or prolonged decline in the prices of securities may lead to a decline in our assets under management, revenues and earnings. Substantially all of our revenues are determined by the amount of our assets under management. Under our investment advisory contracts with our clients, the investment management fee we receive is typically based on the market value of assets under management. In addition, we receive asset-based distribution and/or service fees with respect to the open-end funds managed by Calamos Advisors pursuant to distribution plans adopted under provisions of Rule 12b-1 under the Investment Company Act. Rule 12b-1 fees typically are based on the market value of our assets under management. Accordingly, a general or prolonged decline in the prices of securities usually has caused (i) our revenues and net income to decline by either causing the value of our assets under management to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory and Rule 12b-1 fees, or (ii) clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments they perceive to offer greater opportunity or lower risk, which would also result in lower fees. We have also experienced a decline in our assets under management from leverage reductions in our closed-end funds. The securities markets are highly volatile and securities prices may increase or decrease for many reasons beyond our control, including economic and political events and acts of terrorism. Since mid-2008 the financial services industry and the securities markets have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes. The decline in securities prices we are experiencing have materially and adversely affected our revenues, and depending on the severity and duration of current market conditions, the decline could have a further material adverse effect on our earnings. The increased potential of changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies due to the state of the economy and the current political climate could limit the sources and amounts of our revenues, increase our costs of doing business, decrease our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to extensive regulation which directly affects our cost of doing business. Industry regulations are designed to protect our clients and investors in our funds and other third parties who deal with us and to ensure the integrity of the financial markets. Most of the regulations to which we are subject are not designed to protect our stockholders. The increased potential of changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies due to the state of the economy and current political climate could limit the sources and amounts of our revenues, increase our costs of doing business, decrease our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business. Further, our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment advisor or broker-dealer. The asset management business is intensely competitive. We are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from asset management firms, mutual fund companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, insurance companies, hedge funds, exchange traded funds, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial institutions including multinational firms and subsidiaries of diversified conglomerates. Many of these financial institutions have substantially greater resources than we do and may offer a broader range of financial products across more markets. Some operate in a different regulatory environment than we do which may provide certain competitive advantages to their investment products and portfolio structures. We compete primarily based on the availability and objectives of the investment portfolios offered, investment performance, and the scope and quality of investment advice and other client services. Some institutions have 14 Table of Contents proprietary products and distribution channels that make it more difficult for us to compete with them. We believe that competition within the investment management industry has and will increase as a result of the state of the economy, the failure of financial institutions and consolidation and acquisition activity. Most of our investment portfolios have sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to invest assets in competing funds. If current or potential customers decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, assets under management, revenues, and net income. If we are required to lower our fees in order to remain competitive, our net income could be significantly reduced because some of our expenses are fixed, especially over shorter periods of time, and others may not decrease in proportion to the decrease in revenues. To the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. The investment management business is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. To the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. Although our investment management fees vary from product to product, historically we have competed primarily on the performance of our products and service, and not on the level of our investment management fees relative to those of our competitors. In recent years, however, there has been a trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry. In order to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and service that make investors willing to pay our fees. In addition, the board of trustees of each mutual fund managed by Calamos Advisors must make certain findings as to the reasonableness of its fees. We cannot be assured that we will succeed in providing investment returns and services that will allow us to maintain our current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from contracts that may be terminated on short notice. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from investment management agreements with mutual funds that, as required by law, are generally terminable by the funds’ board of trustees or a vote of the majority of the funds’ outstanding voting securities on not more than 60 days’ written notice. After an initial term, each fund’s investment management agreement must be approved and renewed annually by the independent members of such fund’s board of trustees and, in certain cases, by its stockholders, as required by law. These investment management agreements may be terminated or not renewed for any number of reasons, including investment performance, advisory fee rates and financial market performance. Further, we may not be able to replace terminated or non-renewed agreements on favorable terms. The decrease in revenues that could result from any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our business. Investors in the open-end funds can redeem their investments in these funds at any time without prior notice, which could adversely affect our earnings. Open-end fund investors may redeem their investments in those funds at any time without prior notice. In a declining stock market, the pace of mutual fund redemptions could accelerate. Poor performance relative to other asset management firms tends to result in decreased purchases of mutual fund shares and increased redemptions of mutual fund shares. The redemption of investments in mutual funds managed by Calamos Advisors may adversely affect our revenues, which are substantially dependent upon the assets under management in our funds. Catastrophic and unpredictable events could have a material adverse effect on our business. A terrorist attack, war, power failure, cyber-attack, natural disaster or other catastrophic or unpredictable event could adversely affect our future revenues, expenses and earnings by: interrupting our normal business operations; sustaining employee casualties, including loss of our key executives; requiring substantial expenditures and expenses to repair, replace and restore normal business operations; and reducing investor confidence. We have a disaster recovery plan to address catastrophic and unpredictable events but we cannot be assured that this plan will be sufficient in responding or ameliorating the effects of all disaster scenarios. If our employees or 15 Table of Contents vendors that we rely upon for support in a catastrophic event are unable to respond adequately or in a timely manner, we may lose clients resulting in a decrease in assets under management with a material adverse effect on revenues and net income. Risks Related to Our Business Control by Calamos family members of a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock may give rise to conflicts of interests. As of December 31, 2008, the Calamos Interests owned approximately 79% of Calamos Holdings LLC and all of our Class B common stock, representing more than 97% of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock. Pursuant to the terms of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, Calamos Family Partners, Inc. retains a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock until its ownership interest in Calamos Holdings LLC falls below 15%, at which time all outstanding shares of our Class B common stock automatically will convert into shares of our Class A common stock. Accordingly, as long as Calamos Family Partners, Inc. maintains the requisite ownership interests in our common stock and in Calamos Holdings LLC, they will continue to have the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends on our common stock. In addition, they will continue to be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and will continue to be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. The concentration of ownership could deprive our Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock. As a result of the control exercised by Calamos Family Partners, Inc., none of our agreements with them and other companies controlled by them are deemed to be negotiated on “arm’s length” terms. However, any such agreements since our initial public offering have been approved in accordance with the Conflict of Interests Policy contained in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation. The loss of key executives could have a material adverse affect on our business. We are dependent on the efforts of John P. Calamos, Sr., our chairman, chief executive officer and co-chief investment officer, and Nick P. Calamos, our senior executive vice president and co-chief investment officer. These executives have been responsible for determining the strategic direction of our business, are integral to our brand and the positive business reputation we enjoy and, having overseen the management of all of our investment portfolios and the research teams responsible for each of our portfolio strategies, have been responsible for the historically strong long-term investment performance that allows us to compete successfully. Although we have employment agreements with John P. Calamos, Sr. and Nick P. Calamos, we cannot assure you that they will continue to act in their positions with us. The loss of the services of either of these key executives may have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on third-party distribution channels to market our investment products and access our client base. The potential investor base for mutual funds and separate accounts is limited, and our ability to distribute mutual funds and access clients for separate accounts is highly dependent on access to the retail distribution systems and client bases of national and regional securities firms, banks, insurance companies, defined contribution plan administrators and other intermediaries, which generally offer competing internally and externally managed investment products. For open-end funds, such intermediaries are paid for their services to fund shareholders, in part, through Rule 12b-1 fees and/or upfront commission payments by us, for which we receive Rule 12b-1 payments in the future. Those future payments allow us to pay or help us recover payments to selling firms. Access to such distribution systems and client bases is substantially dependent upon our ability to charge Rule 12b-1 fees to our funds. Our institutional separate account business depends on referrals from financial planners and other professional advisors, as well as from our existing clients. We cannot assure you that these channels and client bases 16 Table of Contents will continue to be accessible to us. The inability to have such access could have a material adverse effect on our assets under management and ultimately our earnings. As of December 31, 2008, a majority of our assets under management were attributable to accounts that we accessed through third-party intermediaries. These intermediaries generally may terminate their relationships with us on short notice. While we continue to diversify and add new distribution channels for mutual funds and managed accounts and a significant portion of the growth in our assets under management in recent years has been accessed through intermediaries, the unprecedented market conditions have resulted in a consolidation of and elimination of some financial service companies. The loss of any of the distribution channels afforded by these intermediaries, and the inability to access clients through new distribution channels, could decrease our assets under management and adversely affect our results of operations and growth potential. In addition, in the case of managed accounts offered through intermediaries to their customers, such intermediaries may reduce the fees that they remit to us as part of the arrangements they have with us. A substantial reduction in fees received from third-party intermediaries could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our investment management business depends on the expertise of our personnel and their ability to work together as an effective team. Our future success depends, to a substantial degree, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. For example, we may need to add investment professionals if we further diversify our investment products and strategies. Competition for employees with the necessary qualifications is intense and we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. We cannot guarantee that our compensation methods will allow us to recruit and retain the required personnel we need. In particular, the use of equity compensation may be ineffective if the market price of our Class A common stock declines. Further, we may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease our net income. The inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could affect our ability to provide an acceptable level of service to our clients and funds and our ability to attract new clients and investors in our funds, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of our products. As of December 31, 2008, 28% of our assets under management were concentrated in the Calamos Growth Fund, and 35% of our investment management fees were attributable to that fund. As a result, our operating results are particularly exposed to the performance of that fund and our ability to minimize redemptions from and maintain assets under management in that fund. Further, given the size and prominence of the Growth Fund within our company, the performance of the Growth Fund may also indirectly affect the net purchases and redemptions in our other products, which in turn may negatively affect our operating results. We also may close funds and investment strategies to new investors, which could inhibit our growth and could lead to redemptions by existing investors, and could thereby cause a decrease in our revenues. We are dependent on Calamos Holdings LLC to distribute cash to us in amounts sufficient to pay our tax liabilities and other expenses. We are a holding company, and our ownership in Calamos Holdings LLC is our primary asset. We have limited independent means of generating revenues. Calamos Holdings LLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not itself subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, its taxable income is allocated on a pro rata basis to Calamos Asset Management, Inc., and the Calamos Interests. Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of Calamos Holdings LLC, and also incur expenses related to our operations. As the sole manager, we caused and in the future intend to cause Calamos Holdings LLC to distribute cash to its members to the extent necessary to cover their tax liabilities, if any. To the extent we need funds to pay such taxes, or for any other purpose, and Calamos Holdings LLC is unable to provide such funds, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We intend to pay regular dividends to our stockholders, but our ability to do so is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure and applicable provisions of Delaware law. To date, we have paid a cash dividend each quarter and intend to continue to pay dividends on a quarterly basis. However, we reduced our third and fourth quarter dividend of 2008 due to the effect of market conditions on our business. Our board of directors has and in the future may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends. Our board of directors also has discretion to discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. The ability of Calamos Holdings LLC to make distributions is subject to its operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, the applicable laws of the State of Delaware (which may limit the amount of funds available for distribution to its members), its compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to distribution restrictions and, among other items, to existing or future indebtedness, including its existing senior unsecured notes, and its other agreements with third parties. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient distributions from our business, we may not be able to make or may have to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends on our shares. A change of control of our company would automatically terminate our investment management agreements with our clients, unless our separate account clients consent and, in the case of fund clients, the funds’ boards of trustees and shareholders voted to continue the agreements, and could prevent us for a two-year period from increasing the investment advisory fees we are able to charge our mutual fund clients. Under the Investment Company Act, an investment management agreement with a fund must provide for its automatic termination in the event of its assignment. The fund’s board and shareholders must vote to continue the agreement following its assignment, the cost of which ordinarily would be borne by us. Under the Investment Advisers Act, a client’s investment management agreement may not be “assigned” by the investment advisor without the client’s consent. An investment management agreement is considered under both acts to be assigned to another party when a controlling block of the advisor’s securities is transferred. In our case, an assignment of our investment management agreements may occur if, among other things, we sell or issue a certain number of additional common shares in the future. We cannot be certain that our clients will consent to assignments of our investment management agreements or approve new agreements with us if a change of control occurs. Under the Investment Company Act, if a fund’s investment advisor engages in a transaction that results in the assignment of its investment management agreement with the fund, the advisor may not impose an “unfair burden” on that fund as a result of the transaction for a two-year period after the transaction is completed. The term “unfair burden” has been interpreted to include certain increases in investment advisory fees. This restriction may discourage potential purchasers from acquiring a controlling interest in our company. We require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if our technology became inoperative or obsolete. We depend on highly specialized and, in many cases, proprietary technology to support our business functions, including, among other functions, securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial processes and controls and regulatory compliance and reporting. All of our technology systems are vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes. Some of our software is licensed from and supported by outside vendors upon whom we rely to prevent operating system failure. A suspension or termination of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. If our technology systems were to fail and we were unable to recover in a timely way, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and could harm our reputation. Technological breakdown could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our customers. In addition, our continued success depends on our ability to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry and regulatory demands. We might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain 18 Table of Contents competitive technology. If we are unable to upgrade our technology in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business. We have developed our reputation through excellent client services, strong long-term risk-adjusted investment performance, comprehensive product offerings, superior distribution and a stalwart brand image. The Calamos name and brand are valuable assets and any damage to either could hamper our ability to attract and retain clients and employees, thereby having a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. Risks to our reputation may range from regulatory issues to unsubstantiated accusations and managing such matters may be expensive, time-consuming and difficult. Improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. We store and process personal client information. It is possible that our security controls, training and other processes over personal data may not prevent the improper disclosure of client information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation as well and subject us to liability, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Risks Related to the Company The disparity in the voting rights among the classes of shares may have a potential adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. Shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock entitle the respective holders to identical rights, except that each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to one vote on all matters to be voted on by stockholders generally while each share of Class B common stock entitles its holder to a greater number of votes. The difference in voting rights could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock to the extent that investors view, or any potential future purchaser of our company views, the superior voting rights of the Class B common stock to be detrimental to the value of the Class A common stock. Future sales of our Class A common stock in the public market could lower our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute our stockholders’ ownership in us. We may sell additional shares of Class A common stock in subsequent public offerings. We also may issue additional shares of Class A common stock or convertible debt securities. As of December 31, 2008, we had 19,497,687 outstanding shares of Class A common stock. In addition, members of the Calamos family and trusts for their benefit own, individually and/or through their combined ownership of Calamos Family Partners, Inc., 78.7% of Calamos Holdings LLC. Our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for the exchange of ownership interests in Calamos Holdings LLC (other than those held by us) for shares of our Class A common stock. Subject to certain selling restrictions, Calamos family members and their trusts could from time to time and for any reason exchange their ownership interests in Calamos Holdings LLC for shares of our Class A common stock and sell any or all of those shares. The Calamos Interests are party to a registration rights agreement with us. Under that agreement, the Calamos Interests have the right to require us to effect the registration of shares of our Class A common stock that the Calamos Interests could acquire upon conversion of their Class B common shares or exchange of their ownership interests in Calamos Holdings LLC. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our Class A common stock, including by Calamos family members and their trusts, may have on the market price of our Class A common stock. Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. 19 Table of Contents The Calamos family’s beneficial ownership of our Class B common stock, as well as anti-takeover provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could negatively affect our stock price. Members of the Calamos family and trusts for their benefit beneficially own all outstanding shares of our Class B common stock. As a result, Calamos family members are able to exercise control over all matters requiring the approval of our stockholders and would be able to prevent a change in control of our company. In addition, provisions in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. For example, our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt. The market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected to the extent that the Calamos family’s control over us, as well as provisions of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, discourage potential takeover attempts that our stockholders may favor. If the Internal Revenue Service disallows all or any portion of the tax amortization deduction allocated to the company in association with the section 754 election made by Calamos Holdings LLC, such action could have a material adverse effect on our business. Calamos Holdings LLC made an election under section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (a “section 754 election”). As a result of the section 754 election, Calamos Holdings LLC increased the company’s proportionate share of the tax basis of the assets of Calamos Holdings LLC to reflect the purchase price paid by the company for its interest in Calamos Holdings LLC. For federal income tax purposes, Calamos Holdings LLC is treated as a partnership and, based upon a third party valuation, its primary intangible assets include investment management contracts and distribution agreements. Based on an opinion of counsel, these types of customer-based intangibles should be amortizable intangibles for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, Calamos Holdings LLC allocated increased tax amortization deductions to the company, which reduced the company’s share of taxable income. However, if the Internal Revenue Service were to disallow all or any portion of the tax amortization deductions allocated to the company, based on the valuation or allocation or purchase price related to the section 754 election, such action could have a material adverse effect on our business. The Internal Revenue Service completed its audit of Calamos Holdings LLC for its 2004 tax year and has proposed certain adjustments as more fully described in note 14 of the consolidated financial statements. Such adjustments do not relate to the section 754 election and we anticipate that the audit and the 2004 tax year will ultimately be closed without an adjustment to the election. The inability for Calamos Holdings LLC to maintain compliance with its financial covenants could have a material adverse effect on our Company. Calamos Holdings LLC currently has $125 million of aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding. Note purchase agreements between Calamos Holdings and its noteholders govern the terms of the unsecured notes. Under these agreements, Calamos Holdings LLC must maintain certain consolidated net worth, leverage and interest coverage ratios. The note purchase agreements also contain other covenants that, among other provisions, restricts the ability of Calamos Holdings’ subsidiaries to incur debt and restricts the ability of Calamos Holdings or its subsidiaries to make distributions, create liens and to merge or to consolidate, or sell or convey all or substantially all of Calamos Holdings’ assets. In December 2008, Calamos Holdings LLC prepaid $400 million of its unsecured debt and entered into amendments to the note purchase agreements. The amendments revised several of the existing financial covenants and also added additional covenants, including an investment coverage ratio requirement, certain limitations on distributions and redemption of equity interests and an interest rate adjustment provision. The inability of Calamos Holdings to maintain compliance with any of these covenants could lead to an event of default and result in various remedies to the noteholders including the acceleration of all the notes outstanding and the payment of a make whole amount. In such an event, our liquidity and results from operations would be negatively impacted. 20 Table of Contents Significant changes in market conditions and the economy may require a modification to our business plan. Our revenues are primarily driven by assets under management and declines in the financial markets will directly and negatively affect our investment advisory fee revenues as well as our non-operating income and net income. As such, significant changes in market conditions and the economy may require a modification to our business plan. Modification to our business plan may include: the reopening or elimination of product offerings or efforts, realignment of sales and marketing resources to adapt to changing market demand and the changing competitive landscape, and the implementation of expense control measures, inclusive of staff reductions, to streamline our infrastructure and reduce capital expenditures. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 