Risk Factors — Our business is primarily transaction-based, and decreases in trading or other changes in our revenue base could harm our business.” Supervision and Compliance The role of our compliance department is to provide education, supervision, surveillance, mediation and communication review. Many of our employees are registered principals with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Inc. (“FINRA”) with supervisory responsibility over options trading or other aspects of our business. In addition, many of our non-technology employees have successfully completed the FINRA licensing exams required for registered representatives. Each of these employees is trained and responsible for complying with securities regulations. Our anti-money laundering screening is conducted using a mix of automated and manual review processes and has been structured to comply with appropriate regulations. We collect the required information through our new account process and then screen accounts with two third-party databases for the purposes of identity verification, and to review for negative information and for their appearance on the Office of Foreign Assets and Control’s, Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons lists. Additionally, we have developed proprietary methods for risk control and continue to add upon specialized processes, queries and automated reports designed to identify money laundering, fraud and other suspicious activities. Technology Systems and Architecture We place emphasis on developing and building cost-effective, stable, scalable and redundant systems. Unlike a number of our direct competitors, we developed our platform to operate free from reliance on mainframe systems common in the brokerage industry. Our hardware and software have proven reliable and versatile and we believe they can be expanded more economically than our major competitors’ systems. We maintain three production data centers. Each center is linked to the others via redundant communication to minimize the likelihood of a data center being unable to serve customers. We replicate and synchronize our primary databases, ensuring a current copy of all customer data at each center. Our technology includes encryption and protective features to maintain investor confidence and protect our customers’ assets and information. In addition, our servers are load balanced, which prevents the failure of a single server or components from having a significant impact on our customers and allows for the easy addition of servers, resulting in the ability to quickly and cost-efficiently scale our platform. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete are dependent to a significant degree on our intellectual property, which includes our proprietary technology, trade secrets and client base. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, unfair competition and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary technology, intellectual property and our brand. We also enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and confidentiality agreements with other third parties, and we rigorously control access to proprietary technology. We have nine patent applications pending in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions relating to various technology components of our platform, but Internet-related software patents can be difficult to obtain, and there can be no assurance that we will obtain a patent or patents broad enough in scope to have value, or obtain a patent at all. Our optionsXpress website is copyrighted and we have obtained trademark registrations for the optionsXpress mark and the brokersXpress mark in the United States, Australia, Singapore, Hong Kong, New Zealand and the European Union. We have pending trademark applications for the optionsXpress mark and the brokersXpress mark in Canada. We have obtained registrations or have pending applications for numerous other marks both in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions. 10 Table of Contents Competition and Pricing The market for brokerage services, particularly electronic brokerage services, is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Our direct competitors in the online marketplace take the form of larger-scale broker-dealers that offer online services, including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., E*TRADE Group, Inc., TD Ameritrade, Inc., Scottrade, Inc., and smaller “niche-market” online or licensed software-based brokers, including TradeStation Group, Inc., INVESTools, Inc. and TradeKing. We also encounter competition from full commission brokerage firms including Merrill Lynch and Smith Barney (a division of Citigroup), as well as mutual fund sponsors, including Fidelity, banks and other organizations that provide online brokerage services. We attribute our competitive success to the overall customer experience we deliver, which results from our advanced technology and superior customer service. Although competition may increase if larger-scale online brokers become more aggressive in marketing options and futures, we believe we will maintain a competitive advantage due to the strength and flexibility of our platform and our focus on options and futures. We do not use price as a significant basis for competition and do not strive to be a deep-discount broker. We offer what we believe to be a competitive price for the services and tools we provide. Our options commissions are $1.50 per option contract with a minimum of $14.95. Our commissions on listed and NASDAQ stocks are $14.95 up to and including 1,000 shares and then $0.015 per share for 1,001 shares and above. Active traders receive a discount, such as a minimum commission of $12.95 for 1 to 9 option contracts and $9.95 for up to 1,000 shares of stock. There are no “hidden fees”; no monthly minimum fees; no charges for non-activity; no volume requirements; and no extra fees for placing telephone orders. Employees At December 31, 2007, we had 265 full-time employees. Of these employees, approximately 150 were engaged in brokerage operations, providing trade execution and customer support, approximately 106 of which were licensed brokers, approximately 60 were engaged in technology and development and approximately 50 were engaged in general management, business development, finance, marketing and administration. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relations with our employees to be excellent. Available Information We are required to file reports with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other reports from time to time. We are an electronic filer and the SEC maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains the reports, proxy and information statements, and other information filed electronically. Our website address is www.optionsXpress.com. Please note that these website addresses are provided as inactive textual references only. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Report on Form 10-K, annual proxy statement, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report. Regulation Overview Our business and industry are highly regulated. As a matter of public policy, regulatory bodies in the United States are charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with protecting the interest of customers participating in those markets, not with protecting the interests of creditors or stockholders of securities firms such as our broker-dealer subsidiaries. optionsXpress, Inc. is a broker-dealer registered with the SEC and is a member of FINRA, Securities Investor Protection Corporation, the National Securities Clearing Corporation and DTCC, and the OCC. optionsXpress, Inc. is also a member of various exchanges, including the Chicago Board Options Exchange (“CBOE”), the International Securities Exchange, 11 Table of Contents the Boston Options Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, the NYSE Arca Exchange and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. brokersXpress LLC is a broker-dealer and investment advisor registered with the SEC and a member of FINRA. The commodity futures and futures options industry in the United States is subject to regulation under the Commodity Exchange Act. The Commodities Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) is the federal agency charged with the administration of this act and the respective regulations. optionsXpress and brokersXpress are registered as members of the CFTC and are also members of the National Futures Association (“NFA”), a self-regulatory organization. optionsXpress is registered with the CFTC as a non-clearing Futures Commission Merchant and brokersXpress is registered with the CFTC as an introducing broker. optionsXpress Canada Corp. is registered with the Investment Dealers Association (“IDA”). optionsXpress Singapore Pte. Ltd. is registered with and licensed by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (“MAS”). optionsXpress Europe, B.V. is registered with and licensed by the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (“AFM”) . Net Capital Rule Our broker-dealer and futures commission merchant subsidiaries are subject to the SEC’s and CFTC’s Net Capital Rules. The Net Capital Rules, which specifies minimum net capital requirements for registered broker-dealers and futures commission merchants, is designed to measure the general financial integrity and liquidity of a broker-dealer. The Net Capital Rules require that at least a minimum part of a registered broker-dealer’s or futures commission merchant’s assets be kept in relatively liquid form. In general, net capital is defined as net worth, meaning assets minus liabilities, plus qualifying subordinated borrowings and discretionary liabilities, and less mandatory deductions that result from excluding assets that are not readily convertible into cash and from conservatively valuing other assets. If a firm fails to maintain the required net capital, the SEC and the SROs or other regulatory bodies may suspend the firm or revoke its registration and ultimately could require the firm’s liquidation. The Net Capital Rule prohibits the payment of dividends, the redemption of stock, the prepayment of subordinated indebtedness and the making of any unsecured advance or loan to a stockholder, employee or affiliate, if the payment would reduce the firm’s net capital below required levels. Foreign Jurisdictions and Regulation While we effect brokerage transactions solely in the United States, our customers access our services through the Internet. In any foreign jurisdiction in which we have customers, there is a possibility that a regulatory authority could assert jurisdiction over our activities and seek to subject us to the laws, rules and regulations of that jurisdiction. We have obtained registration to conduct brokerage activities in Canada, Singapore and the European Union. In addition, our Australian operations are conducted through an Australia registered subsidiary in which we have a minority interest. The laws, rules and regulations of each foreign jurisdiction differ. In the jurisdictions where we have the most foreign customers, we may be either licensed or registered or believe we are exempt from licensing or registration due to our limited conduct, lack of solicitation in those jurisdictions, and/or other factors. In any jurisdiction where we are relying on an exemption from registration, there remains the risk that we could be required to register, and therefore, be subject to regulation and enforcement action or, in the alternative, to reduce or terminate our activities in these jurisdictions. Patriot Act As required by the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, or the Patriot Act, we have established comprehensive anti-money laundering and customer identification procedures, designated an anti-money laundering compliance officer, trained our employees and retained an independent audit of our program. There are significant criminal and civil penalties that can be imposed for violations of the Patriot Act. For more information, see “Business — Broker-Dealer Operations — Supervision and Compliance.” 12 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Important risk factors that could impact our ability to achieve our anticipated operating results and growth plan goals are presented below. You should read the following risk factors in conjunction with discussions of our business and the factors affecting our business located elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. We may be unable to effectively manage our rapid growth and retain our customers. Our rapid growth has placed significant demands on our management and other resources. Due to this growth, we will need to attract, hire and retain highly skilled and motivated officers and employees. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the officers and employees necessary to manage this growth effectively. In addition, we may not be able to accurately project the rate, timing or cost of any increases in our business. Failure to make necessary expansions and upgrades to our systems and infrastructure, expand and upgrade the reliability and scalability of our transaction processing systems, network infrastructure and other aspects of our technology and maintain our customer service levels could lead to failures and delays, which could cause a loss of customers or a reduction in the growth of our customer base, increased operating expenses, financial losses, litigation or customer claims, and regulatory sanctions or additional regulatory burdens. We operate in a highly regulated industry and compliance failures could adversely affect our business. We operate under extensive regulation, which increases our cost of doing business and is a limiting factor on the operations and development of our business. Our business and operations are subject to regulation by the SEC, FINRA, the CBOE, the CFTC, the NFA and other SROs, and state securities commissions. Outside the United States, we are subject to regulation in those countries where we have sought and received licenses from the applicable regulatory bodies and we also may be subject to regulation by securities regulatory authorities in other foreign countries where our customers are located. The securities industry in the United States covers all aspects of the securities business, including: • sales methods, • trade practices, • use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, • capital structure, • record-keeping, • best execution, • financing of customers’ purchases, and • conduct of directors, officers and employees. Failure to comply with any of the laws, rules or regulations applicable to us, even inadvertently, could lead to adverse consequences including censure, fine, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or disqualification of directors, officers or employees. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our business. It is also possible that any noncompliance could subject us to criminal penalties and civil lawsuits. An adverse ruling against us or our officers or other employees could cause us or our subsidiaries or our officers and other employees to pay a substantial fine or settlement, and could result in their suspension or expulsion. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business. 13 Table of Contents Changes in legislation or regulations may affect our ability to conduct our business or reduce our profitability. The regulatory environment in which we operate may change. These changes may affect our ability to conduct our business or reduce our profitability. Our activities may be affected not only by legislation or regulations of general applicability, but also by industry-specific legislation or regulations. The SEC, other U.S. or foreign governmental authorities, FINRA or other SROs may adopt new or revised regulations which affect our business. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by those entities may also affect our business. In addition, we use the Internet as the distribution channel to provide services to our customers. A number of regulatory agencies have recently adopted regulations regarding customer privacy and the use of customer information by service providers. Additional laws and regulations relating to the Internet may be adopted in the future, including regulations regarding the pricing, taxation, content and quality of products and services delivered over the Internet. Complying with these laws and regulations is expensive, time consuming and could limit our ability to use the Internet as a distribution channel. Servicing customers outside the United States involves special challenges that we may not be able to meet, which could negatively impact our financial results. Since our services are available over the Internet in foreign countries and we have customers residing in foreign countries, foreign jurisdictions may claim that we are required to qualify to do business in their country. We believe that the number of our customers residing outside of the United States will increase over time. We may be required to comply with applicable laws and regulations of each country in which we conduct business, including laws and regulations currently in place or which may be enacted related to brokerage services available to their citizens over the Internet from service providers located elsewhere. In addition, we have become licensed by a number of regulatory bodies in several foreign countries and are subject to their laws and regulations. Any failure to develop effective compliance and reporting systems could result in regulatory penalties in the applicable jurisdiction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. For more information, see “Regulation — Foreign Jurisdictions and Regulation.” In addition, we currently offer foreign securities brokerage services in Australia and may in the future choose to do so in additional countries. There are certain risks inherent in doing so. Among other risks, we may face less developed technological infrastructures, less developed automation in exchanges, depositories and national clearing systems, exchange rate fluctuations, increased credit risk and unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers. Where we do business through an international entity, we may also face barriers to repatriation of foreign earnings. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on our future international operations and consequently on our business, financial condition and operating results. Substantial competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. The market for electronic brokerage services is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect the competitive environment to continue in the future. We face direct competition from numerous online and software-based brokerage firms, including Charles Schwab & Co., Inc., Fidelity Brokerage Services, LLC, E*TRADE Group, Inc., TD Ameritrade, Inc., TradeStation Group, Inc., Thinkorswim, Inc. and TradeKing. We also encounter competition from the broker-dealer affiliates of established full commission brokerage firms as well as from mutual fund sponsors, banks and other organizations that provide online brokerage services. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources, and have greater name recognition and a more extensive customer base than we do. This intense competition has resulted in several trends that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation, including the implementation of new pricing strategies; the development by our competitors of products and services and enhancements; consolidation in the industry and increased emphasis 14 Table of Contents on advertising and promotional efforts. In addition, some of our competitors are actively pursuing a larger share of the options trading market. We believe that the general financial success of companies within the online brokerage industry will continue to attract new competitors to the industry, such as banks, software development companies, insurance companies, providers of online financial information and others. These companies may provide a more comprehensive suite of services than we do. We may not be able to compete effectively with our current or future competitors. If we fail to attract customers in a cost-effective manner, our profitability and growth may be impaired. Our profitability and growth depends on increasing our customer base in a cost-effective manner. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, we incurred advertising expenses of $14.8 million, $7.5 million and $5.7 million, respectively. Although we have spent significant financial resources on advertising and related expenses and plan to continue to do so, there are no assurances that these efforts will be cost-effective at attracting new customers. In particular, we believe that rates for desirable advertising and marketing placements are likely to increase in the foreseeable future, and we may be disadvantaged relative to our larger competitors in our ability to expand or maintain our advertising and marketing commitments. Additionally, filter software programs that limit or prevent our advertisements and other communications from being displayed on or delivered to our current and potential customers’ computers are becoming increasingly available. If this type of software becomes widely accepted, it would negatively affect our Internet advertising. Finally, our sales and marketing methods are subject to regulation by the CBOE and FINRA. The rules and regulations of these organizations impose specific limitations on our sales methods, including our advertising and payments to non-broker-dealers. If we do not achieve our advertising objectives, our profitability and growth may be impaired. Our business is primarily transaction-based, and decreases in trading or other changes in our revenue base could harm our business. Our revenues are derived primarily from securities brokerage services, and we expect this business to continue to account for almost all of our revenues. We are directly affected by economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance and changes in the conditions of the securities markets in which our customers trade. Over the past several years, volume in the securities market in the United States has fluctuated considerably. During periods of low trading volume, our revenues are adversely affected. Severe decreases in market prices could also have an impact on our business because of the adverse impact on investor sentiment and losses in investor portfolios. In addition, a portion of our revenue is derived from payment for order flow. We have arrangements with several execution agents to receive cash payments in exchange for routing trade orders to these firms for execution. By custom in the industry, these cash payments are not the subject of any written agreement. As a result, they could be changed or eliminated at any time. Competition between execution agents and the implementation of order handling rules and decimalization of stock prices have made it less profitable for execution agents to offer order flow payments to broker-dealers. If these payments were to be reduced or eliminated for competitive or other reasons, our business could be materially adversely affected. Payment for order flow represented approximately 14.3% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. In January 2007, the six option exchanges, at the direction of the SEC, instituted a pilot program to allow the options of certain underlying symbols to be quoted and traded in $0.01 increments in lieu of the $0.05 increments previously used. The initial pilot program consisted of 13 underlying securities. This pilot was extended in September 2007 to an additional 22 underlying securities. The pilot resulted in a reduction to our payment for order flow. Additional extensions of the pilot program or other actions taken by the SEC related to payment for order flow may have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. 15 Table of Contents We have exposure to interest rate risk. A significant portion of our revenue is generated from investing customer cash that is deposited with us in interest-earning assets offset by interest liabilities we pay our customers on those deposits. In addition, we earn fees on our customer’s cash sweeps to a third-party manager. Changes in interest rates could affect the interest earned on assets differently than interest paid on liabilities. A rising interest rate environment generally results in our earning a larger net interest spread. Conversely, a falling interest rate environment generally results in our earning a smaller net interest spread. We have exposure to liquidity risk. We fund customer margin loans with customer credit balances. A reduction of funds available from client credit balances may require us to seek other potentially more expensive forms of financing, such as borrowings on lines of credit. In June 2007, we established an unsecured, uncommitted credit facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA that is callable on demand, but we do not currently have a committed line of credit and there can be no assurance that such financing would be available. We are subject to various forms of credit risk, and those risks could have a material adverse effect on our financial situation. We extend margin credit and leverage to our customers, which are subject to various regulatory and clearing firm margin requirements. Margin credit balances are collateralized by cash and securities in the customers’ accounts. Leverage involves securing a large potential future obligation with a lesser amount of cash or securities. The risks associated with margin credit and leverage increase during periods of fast market movements or in cases where leverage or collateral is concentrated and market movements occur. During such times, customers who utilize margin credit or leverage and who have collateralized their obligations with securities may find that the securities have a rapidly depreciating value and may not be sufficient to cover their obligations in the event of liquidation. We are exposed to credit risk when our customers execute transactions, such as short sales of options and equities or futures transactions that can expose them to risk beyond their invested capital. At December 31, 2007, we had $206.9 million in credit extended to our customers. In addition, we may be obligated for margin extended to our customers by our third-party clearing agents on collateralized securities and futures positions. The margin and leverage requirements that we impose on our customer accounts meet or exceed those required by various regulatory requirements and Regulation T of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. The amount of this risk is not quantifiable since the risk is dependent upon analysis of a potential significant and undeterminable rise or fall in stock prices. As a result, we are exposed to significant off-balance sheet credit risk in the event customer collateral is not sufficient to fully cover losses that customers may incur. In the event customers fail to satisfy their obligations, we may be required to purchase or sell financial instruments at prevailing market prices to fulfill the customers’ obligations. We believe that it is unlikely that we will have to make any material payments under these arrangements, and no liabilities related to these guarantees and indemnifications have been recognized in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We borrow securities temporarily from other broker-dealers in connection with our broker-dealer business. We deposit cash as collateral for the securities borrowed. Decreases in securities prices may cause the market value of the securities borrowed to fall below the amount of cash deposited as collateral. In the event the counterparty to these transactions does not return the cash deposited, we may be exposed to the risk of selling the securities at prevailing market prices. We seek to manage this risk by requiring credit approvals for counterparties, by monitoring the securities values on a daily basis. 16 Table of Contents Our risk management policies and procedures may not be effective and may leave us exposed to unidentified or unexpected risks. Our policies, procedures and practices used to identify, monitor and control a variety of risks may fail to be effective. As a result, we face the risk of losses, including losses resulting from firm errors, customer defaults, market movements, fraud and money-laundering. Our risk management methods rely on a combination of technical and human controls and supervision that are subject to error and failure. Some of our methods of managing risk are based on internally developed controls and observed historical market behavior, and also involve reliance on industry standard practices. These methods may not adequately prevent future losses, particularly as they relate to extreme market movements, which may be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. These methods also may not adequately prevent losses due to technical errors if our testing and quality control practices are not effective in preventing technical software or hardware failures. We may suffer losses if our reputation is harmed. Our ability to attract and retain customers and employees may be adversely affected to the extent our reputation is damaged. If we fail, or appear to fail, to deal with various issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could harm our business prospects. These issues include, but are not limited to, appropriately dealing with potential conflicts of interest, legal and regulatory requirements, ethical issues, money-laundering, privacy, record-keeping, sales and trading practices, and the proper identification of the legal, credit, liquidity, and market risks inherent in our business. Failure to appropriately address these issues could also give rise to additional legal risk to us, which could, in turn, increase the size and number of claims and damages asserted against us or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, fines, and penalties. Systems failures and delays could harm our business. We receive and process trade orders through a variety of electronic channels. Our online trading services are heavily dependent on the integrity of the systems supporting them. Our systems and operations, including our Web servers and those of our third-party service providers, are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, sabotage, encryption failures, break-ins, intentional acts of vandalism, earthquakes, terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems and operations, and similar events. Our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. In addition, extraordinary trading volumes could cause our computer systems to operate at an unacceptably low speed or even fail. While we have invested significant amounts to upgrade the reliability and scalability of our systems, there can be no assurance that our systems will be sufficient to handle such extraordinary trading volumes. Systems failures or delays may occur in the future and could cause, among other things, unanticipated disruptions in service to our customers, slower system response time resulting in transactions not being processed as quickly as our customers desire, decreased levels of customer service and customer satisfaction and harm to our reputation. If any of these events were to occur, we could suffer: • a loss of customers or a reduction in the growth of our customer base; • increased operating expenses; • financial losses; and • litigation or other customer claims; and regulatory sanctions or additional regulatory burdens. Our business also depends on the continued reliability of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity and security for providing reliable Internet services. Internet infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it if the number of Internet users continues to increase or if existing or future Internet users access the Internet more often or increase their bandwidth requirements. In addition, viruses, worms and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result 17 Table of Contents of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage and our business could be materially adversely affected. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to security risks. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a critical element of our operations. Our networks and those of our third-party service providers may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other security problems. Persons who circumvent security measures could wrongfully use our confidential information or our customers’ confidential information or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. We or our service providers may be required to expend significant additional resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. We or our service providers may not be able to implement security measures that will protect against all security risks. We will need to introduce new products and services to remain competitive. Our future success depends in part on our ability to develop and enhance our products and services. The financial services industry is characterized by rapid technological change and the emergence of new industry standards and practices that could render our existing technology and systems obsolete. There are significant technical and financial risks in the development of new or enhanced products and services, including the risk that we will be unable to effectively use new technologies or adapt our services to emerging industry standards, or develop, introduce and market enhanced or new products and services. In addition, the adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights or our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others could adversely affect our business. Patents of third parties may have an important bearing on our ability to offer certain of our products and services. Our major competitors as well as other companies and individuals may obtain and may have obtained patents related to the technologies for trading the types of products and providing the services we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. In addition, some patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued and, therefore, we cannot evaluate the extent to which technology concerning our products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered by claims contained in pending patent applications. In general, if one or more of our products or services were found by a court to infringe patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to obtain licenses to develop and market the services from the holders of the patents or to redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing those patents. An adverse ruling arising out of any intellectual property dispute could also subject us to significant liability for damages. We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, and are unable to redesign our products or services to avoid infringement of any such patents, this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Also, protection may not be available for our intellectual property. Although we have patent applications and registered trademarks in the United States and other countries, there can be no assurance that we will be able to secure significant protection for this intellectual property. It is possible that our competitors will adopt technology or product or service names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to distinguish our technology and build brand identity, possibly leading to customer confusion. Our inability to adequately protect our marks would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 18 Table of Contents Acquisitions involve risks that could adversely affect our business. We intend to pursue strategic acquisitions of businesses and technologies. Acquisitions may entail numerous risks, including: • difficulties in the integration of acquired operations, services and products; • failure to achieve expected synergies; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • assumption of unknown material liabilities of acquired companies; • amortization of acquired intangible assets, which could reduce future reported earnings; • potential loss of clients or key employees of acquired companies; and • dilution to existing stockholders. As part or our growth strategy, we regularly consider strategic transactions such as acquisitions, mergers and combinations within our industry. We cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to identify and to consummate strategic transactions, and no assurance can be given with respect to the timing, likelihood or business effect of any possible transaction. Any transactions that we consummate would involve risks and uncertainties to us. These risks could cause the failure of any anticipated benefits of an acquisition to be realized, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Failure to comply with net capital requirements could adversely affect our business. The SEC, FINRA, CBOE, CFTC, NFA and other self-regulatory agencies or organizations have stringent rules with respect to the maintenance of specific levels of net capital by securities broker-dealers and futures commission merchants (“FCM”). Our broker-dealer and FCM subsidiaries are required to comply with these net capital requirements. If we fail to maintain the required net capital, the SEC or CFTC could fine us or even suspend or revoke our registration, or the applicable SRO could sanction us, including by limiting our growth or expelling us from membership. Any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business. If such net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against net capital, operations that require the use of capital would be restricted. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could adversely affect our ability to expand or even maintain our then present levels of business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our net capital position. As a holding company, we access the earnings of our broker-dealer subsidiaries through receipt of dividends from those subsidiaries. Net capital requirements may limit our ability to access those earnings. Our self-clearing operations for securities expose us to liability for errors in clearing functions. Clearing and execution services include the confirmation, receipt, settlement and delivery functions involved in securities transactions. Clearing brokers also assume direct responsibility for the possession and control of client securities and other assets and the clearance of client securities transactions. However, clearing brokers also must rely on third-party clearing organizations such as the DTCC and the OCC in settling client securities transactions. Self-clearing securities firms are subject to substantially more regulatory control and examination than introducing brokers that rely on others to perform clearing functions. Errors in performing clearing functions, including clerical and other errors related to the handling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of our clients, could lead to civil penalties as well as losses and liability in related lawsuits brought by clients and others. 19 Table of Contents We are dependent on clearing agents for executing and processing our futures transactions and any failures by them or difficulties in our relationships could materially harm our business. We are dependent on certain clearing agents for the orderly processing of futures and options on futures transactions. Our clearing agreements with our clearing firms may be terminated by any of the parties upon prior written notice. Breaches or termination of these agreements or the clearing firms’ agreements with their third-party suppliers could harm our business. Termination of our relationship with our clearing firms could expose us to certain capital reserve requirements and other complex regulatory requirements imposed by federal and state securities laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, we have agreed to indemnify and hold harmless our clearing firms from certain liabilities or claims, including claims arising from the transactions of our customers, and may incur significant costs as a result. The loss of or change in our third-party vendors and service providers may adversely affect our business. We rely on a number of third parties for various services. These include the services of market makers and exchanges to execute customer orders and other third parties for back office services and other information necessary to run our business, including transaction summaries, data feeds for compliance and risk management, execution reports and trade confirmations. Third-party content providers provide us with all of the financial information, market news, charts, option and stock quotes, research reports and other fundamental data that we offer to customers. Furthermore, we have offsite third-party data center operations that are critical to our business. To facilitate our self-clearing operations, we rely on third-party software and systems, including Sungard Financial Systems’ Phase3 trade processing and settlement software system. Our customers also rely on cash sweeps from their customer accounts to a third-party manager. We cannot assure you that any of these providers will be able to continue to provide these services in an efficient, cost-effective manner or that they will be able to adequately expand their services to meet our needs. An interruption in or the cessation of service by any third-party service provider as a result of systems failures, capacity constraints, unanticipated trading market closures or for any other reason, and our inability to make alternative arrangements in a smooth and timely manner, if at all, may impact our ability to process trades and have other material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our exposure to possible litigation could adversely affect our business. Because of the extent and complexity of our regulatory environment and the products we offer, many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability. In recent years, there has been an increasing incidence of litigation involving the securities brokerage industry, including class action and other suits that generally seek substantial damages, including in some cases punitive damages. Any such litigation brought in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We also face potential indirect liability for claims of defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement, violation of the securities laws and other claims based upon the third-party content that we distribute online. Computer failures may also result in our widely publishing and distributing incorrect data. Our insurance may not necessarily cover any of these claims or may not be adequate to protect us against all liability that may be imposed. Any such litigation brought in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Losses due to employee or customer fraud could have an adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to potential losses resulting from fraud and other misconduct by employees, customers or third parties. Employees may bind us to transactions that exceed authorized limits or present unacceptable risks, hide from us unauthorized or unsuccessful activities or improperly use confidential information. Third parties may engage in fraudulent activities, including fraudulent access to legitimate customer accounts, the use of a false identity to open an account, or the use of forged or counterfeit checks for payment. Such types of fraud may be difficult to prevent or detect, and we may not be able to recover the losses caused by such 20 Table of Contents activities. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Procedures and requirements of the Patriot Act may expose us to significant costs or penalties. As participants in the financial services industry, our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including the Patriot Act, that require that they know their customers and monitor transactions for suspicious financial activities. The cost of complying with the Patriot Act and related laws and regulations is significant. We face the risk that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with the Patriot Act are insufficient and that we could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties due to noncompliance. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. As an online broker with customers worldwide, we may face particular difficulties in identifying our customers and monitoring their activities. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly. Our common stock, and the U.S. securities markets in general, have experienced significant price fluctuations in recent years. The market prices of securities of Internet-related companies, in particular, have been especially volatile. The price of our common stock could decrease substantially. In addition, because the market price of our common stock tends to fluctuate significantly, we could become the object of securities class action litigation which could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources. Market volatility may cause our stock price and the value of your investment to decline. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; • conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; • changes in the market valuations of other companies operating in our industry; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; • announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers or our strategic investors. Our officers, directors and largest stockholders will maintain the ability to control all matters submitted to stockholders for approval. Our officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially own approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will have significant influence over the election of our directors, the appointment of new management and the potential outcome of all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including entering into mergers, the sale of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary items. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. 21 Table of Contents The future sale of shares of our common stock may negatively impact our stock price. If our shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could fall. A reduction in ownership by our largest shareholder or any other large shareholders could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. We have granted certain stockholders the right to require us to register their shares of our new common stock, representing 15,103,383 shares of our common stock as of February 20, 2008. Accordingly, the number of shares subject to registration rights is substantial and the sale of these shares may have a negative impact on the market price for our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage potential acquisition proposals, could delay, deter or prevent a change in control and could limit the price certain investors might be willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may inhibit changes in control of our company not approved by our board of directors or changes in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in the entrenchment of current management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors with staggered terms; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consents; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the board of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; • limitations on the ability of stockholders to amend, alter or repeal the by-laws; and • the authority of the board of directors to issue, without stockholder approval, preferred stock with such terms as the board of directors may determine and additional shares of our common stock. We are also afforded the protections of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents us from engaging in a business combination with a person who becomes a 15% or greater stockholder for a period of three years from the date such person acquired such status unless certain board or stockholder approvals are obtained. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. We may not continue to pay dividends on our common stock. In each of the last eleven quarters we have declared and paid quarterly dividends on all outstanding shares of common stock. There can be no assurance, however, as to the amount and frequency of any such dividend or that a dividend will be paid at all due to factors relating to our actual future earnings and capital requirements and to the discretion of our board of directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 22 Table of Contents 