ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry The closure of our centers in North Carolina and the lending banks ceasing to originate payday cash advances and installment loans in Pennsylvania and Arkansas will adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The closure of our centers in North Carolina in December 2005, the planned cessation of originations by BankWest, the lending bank for whom we act as a marketing, processing and servicing agent in Pennsylvania, effective as of the close of business on March 27, 2006, and the planned cessation of installment loan and payday cash advance originations by Fidelity, the lending bank for whom we act as a marketing, processing and servicing agent in Arkansas, in April 2006 and June 2006, respectively, will result in a significant loss of revenue. Those three states collectively accounted for $72.5 million and $59.0 million in net revenues during 2004 and 2005, respectively. We estimate that our net revenues will be reduced by approximately $2.3 million for each month that we are not able to operate under the agency business model in Pennsylvania and $0.5 million for each month that we are not able to operate under the agency business model in Arkansas. Furthermore, center expenses average approximately $1.3 million per month in Pennsylvania and $0.4 million per month in Arkansas. These expenses will continue to be incurred while we service payday cash advances and installments loans that are outstanding when the lending banks stop originating additional advances and loans. We estimate that severance, lease cancellation, write-down of the undepreciated costs of fixed assets and the cost to vacate the premises will approximate $2.9 million if it becomes necessary to shut down operations in Pennsylvania and $0.7 million if it becomes necessary to shut down operations in Arkansas. In 2005, we incurred approximately $2.7 million in expenses related to closing our North Carolina centers. The amount of impairment of goodwill, if any, cannot be determined at this time. At this time it is unclear what options may be available to us to meet customer demand for small-denomination, short-term loans in these states. Defending the legality of the agency business model, finding new lending bank partners and pursuing alternative products and services may take significant time, management attention and financial resources. Further, we may not be successful in any of these efforts. 18 Our agency relationships with the lending banks are highly regulated and subject to the oversight of the FDIC and any changes in laws and regulations governing these relationships or the position of the FDIC could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The lending banks for which we have acted as marketing, processing and servicing agent are subject to extensive federal and state banking regulations. Additionally, as state-chartered banks, the lending banks are subject to supervision by the FDIC as well as regular examination by other state and federal regulatory authorities. In July 2003 and March 2005, the FDIC issued guidance governing permissible agency arrangements between state-chartered banks and marketing, processing and servicing agents for the banks' payday cash advances, such as us. In July 2005, the lending banks for whom we act as a marketing, processing and servicing agent implemented new policies, limits and procedures and began offering installment loans as an alternative credit product in response to the FDIC guidance. In February 2006, we became aware that the FDIC is further investigating the offering of payday cash advances and installment loans by agency banks and has instructed certain lending banks to discontinue offering payday cash advances and alternative credit products if they cannot adequately address the FDIC's continuing concerns regarding those products. Despite the decision of the lending banks to stop originating payday cash advances and installment loans in response to the FDIC's instructions, it is possible that the FDIC or other regulators could take further action against the lending banks and us. Any such further action could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to efficiently and profitably introduce or manage a check-cashing, credit services business or other alternative methods for conducting business could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In June 2005, we began offering check-cashing and deferred-presentment services directly to customers in Michigan and in July 2005 we began offering credit services as a CSO to customers in Texas. In addition, in response to the FDIC's most recent instruction to certain banks to discontinue offering new payday cash advances and alternative credit products, we are studying alternative methods for conducting business in Arkansas and Pennsylvania. Each of these changes and alternative methods of conducting business are subject to risk and uncertainty and require significant investment in time and capital. Due to our lack of experience in offering these alternative services, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement any of these changes. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or implement any alternative methods of conducting business in Arkansas or Pennsylvania. Furthermore, we cannot anticipate the demand for any of these new services, nor do we know if we will be able to offer these new services in an efficient manner or on a profitable or as profitable basis. Our failure to do so, or low customer demand for any of these new services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The payday cash advance services industry is highly regulated under state law. Changes in state laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is regulated under a variety of enabling state statutes, including payday advance, check-cashing, small loan, and credit services organization state laws, all of which are subject to change and which may impose significant costs or limitations on the way we conduct or expand our business. As of December 31, 2005, 39 states and the District of Columbia had specific laws that permitted payday cash advances or allowed a form of payday cash advances under small loan laws. As of December 31, 2005, we operated in 35 of these 39 states. In one of these 35 states, we operated under the agency business model, serving as marketing, processing and servicing agent through our centers for a lending bank. We do not currently conduct business in the remaining four states or in the District of 19 Columbia because we do not believe it is economically attractive to operate in these jurisdictions due to specific legislative restrictions such as interest rate ceilings, an unattractive population density or unattractive location characteristics. The remaining 11 states do not have laws specifically authorizing the payday cash advance business. Despite the lack of specific payday advance laws, other laws may permit us to do business in these states. As of December 31, 2005, we operated in one of these 11 states under the agency business model, serving as marketing, processing and servicing agent through our centers for a lending bank. During the last few years, legislation has been adopted in some states that prohibits or severely restricts payday cash advance services. In May 2004, a new law became effective in Georgia that essentially prohibits payday cash advance services in the state and restricted our ability to act as marketing, processing and servicing agent for a lending bank in the state. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." As a result, we closed our 89 centers in Georgia. Many bills have also been introduced in state legislatures. In 2005, bills that severely restrict or effectively prohibit payday cash advance services were introduced in 26 states. In addition, two states have sunset provisions in their payday cash advance laws that require renewal of the laws by the state legislatures at periodic intervals. Future laws prohibiting payday cash advance services or making them unprofitable could be passed in any other state at any time or existing payday cash advance laws could expire or be amended, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Statutes authorizing payday cash advance services typically provide state agencies that regulate banks and financial institutions with significant regulatory powers to administer and enforce the law. In most states, we are required to apply for a license, file periodic written reports regarding business operations and undergo comprehensive state examinations to ensure that we comply with applicable laws. Under statutory authority, state regulators have broad discretionary power and may impose new licensing requirements, interpret or enforce existing regulatory requirements in different ways or issue new administrative rules, even if not contained in state statutes, that impact the way we do business and may force us to terminate or modify our operations in particular states. They may also impose rules that are generally adverse to our industry. Any new licensing requirements or rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In some cases, we rely on the interpretations of the staff of state regulatory bodies with respect to the laws and regulations of their respective jurisdictions. These staff interpretations generally are not binding legal authority and may be subject to challenge in administrative or judicial proceedings. Additionally, as the staff of state regulatory bodies change, it is possible that their interpretations of applicable laws and regulations also may change and negatively affect our business. As a result, our reliance on staff interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, state attorneys general and banking regulators have begun to scrutinize payday cash advance services and take actions that could require us to modify, suspend or cease operations in their respective states. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." The payday cash advance services industry is also regulated under federal law and subject to federal and state unfair and deceptive practices statutes. Our failure to comply with such regulations or changes in federal laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although states provide the primary regulatory framework under which we offer payday cash advance services, certain federal laws also impact our business. See "Item 1. Business-Federal Regulation." Because payday cash advances are viewed as extensions of credit, we must comply with the federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z adopted under that Act. Additionally, we are subject to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Credit 20 Reporting Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Any failure to comply with any of these federal laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, since 1999, various anti-payday cash advance legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress. Congressional members continue to receive pressure from consumer advocates and other industry opposition groups to adopt such legislation. Any federal legislative or regulatory action that restricts or prohibits payday cash advance services could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our marketing efforts and the representations we make about our payday cash advance services also are subject to federal and state unfair and deceptive practices statutes. The Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") enforces the Federal Trade Commission Act and the state attorneys general and private plaintiffs enforce the analogous state statutes. If we are found to have violated any of these statutes, that violation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The payday cash advance services industry is subject to various local rules and regulations. Changes in these local regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to state and federal laws and regulations, our business can be subject to various local rules and regulations such as local zoning regulations. Any actions taken in the future by local zoning boards or other local governing bodies to require special use permits for, or impose other restrictions on, payday cash advance service providers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Current and future litigation and regulatory proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to lawsuits and regulatory proceedings that could generate adverse publicity and cause us to incur substantial expenditures. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." Adverse rulings in some of these lawsuits or regulatory proceedings could significantly impair our business or force us to cease doing business in one or more states. We are likely to be subject to further litigation and proceedings in the future. The consequences of an adverse ruling in any current or future litigation or proceeding could cause us to have to refund fees and/or interest collected on payday cash advances, refund the principal amount of payday cash advances, pay treble or other multiple damages, pay monetary penalties and/or modify or terminate our operations in particular states. We may also be subject to adverse publicity. Defense of any lawsuits or proceedings, even if successful, would require substantial time and attention of our senior officers and other management personnel that would otherwise be spent on other aspects of our business and would require the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Legislative or regulatory action or an adverse result in litigation or regulatory proceedings could cause us to cease, suspend or modify our operations in a state, potentially resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we close our centers in a state, in addition to the loss of net revenues attributable to that closing, we would incur closing costs such as severance payments and lease cancellation payments and we would have to write off assets that we could no longer use. If we were to suspend rather than 21 permanently cease our operations in a state, we may also have continuing costs associated with maintaining our centers and our employees in that state, with little or no revenues. From time to time, we may also choose to operate in a state even if legislation or regulations cause us to lose money on our operations in that state. The passage of a 2002 Indiana statute established a rate structure at which we could not operate on a profitable basis. However, we continued to provide payday cash advances in the state while experiencing operating losses until a new, less restrictive, law was passed in March 2004. Any of these actions or events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We lack product and business diversification; as a result, our future revenues and earnings may be disproportionately negatively impacted by external factors and may be more susceptible to fluctuations than more diversified companies. Our primary business activity is offering payday cash advance services. If we are unable to maintain and grow our payday cash advance services business, our future revenues and earnings could decline. Our lack of product and business diversification could inhibit our opportunities for growth, reduce our revenues and profits and make us more susceptible to earnings fluctuations than many of our competitors who are more diversified and provide other services such as pawn lending, title lending or other similar services. External factors, such as changes in laws and regulations, new entrants and enhanced competition, could also make it more difficult for us to operate as profitably as a more diversified company could operate. Any internal or external change in the payday cash advance services industry could result in a decline in our future revenues and earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Competition in the retail financial services industry could cause us to lose market share or reduce our interest and fees, possibly resulting in a decline in our future revenues and earnings. The industry in which we operate has low barriers to entry and is highly fragmented and very competitive. We believe that the market may become even more competitive as the industry grows and/or consolidates. We compete with services provided by traditional financial institutions, such as overdraft protection, and with other payday cash advance providers, small loan providers, credit unions, short-term consumer lenders, other financial service entities and other retail businesses that offer consumer loans or other products and services that are similar to ours. We also compete with companies offering payday cash advances and short-term loans over the internet as well as by phone. Some of these competitors have larger local or regional customer bases, more locations and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result of this increasing competition, we could lose market share or we may need to reduce our interest and fees, possibly resulting in a decline in our future revenues and earnings. The concentration of our revenues in certain states could adversely affect us. Our centers operated in 37 states (prior to the closure of our centers in North Carolina) during the year ended December 31, 2005, and our five largest states (measured by total revenues) accounted for approximately 41% of our total revenues, with California, our largest state (measured by total revenues), representing approximately 11% of our total revenues. While we believe we have a diverse geographic presence, for the near term we expect that significant revenues will continue to be generated by certain states, largely due to the currently prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory, competitive and other conditions in those states. Furthermore, our five largest states, as measured by revenues, are not in all instances our five largest states as measured by the number of centers operated. Changes to prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory or any other conditions in the markets in which we operate could lead to a reduction in demand for our payday cash advance services, a decline in our revenues or an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts and agency bank losses that could result in a deterioration of our financial condition. 22 Media reports and public perception of payday cash advances as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Over the past few years, consumer advocacy groups and certain media reports have advocated with increasing frequency governmental and regulatory action to prohibit or severely restrict payday cash advances. The consumer groups and media reports typically focus on the cost to a consumer for a payday cash advance. The consumer groups and media reports typically characterize these payday cash advances as predatory or abusive toward consumers. If this negative characterization of payday cash advances becomes widely accepted by consumers, demand for payday cash advance services could significantly decrease, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Negative perception of payday cash advances or other activities could also result in increased regulatory scrutiny and increased litigation, and encourage restrictive local zoning rules and make it more difficult to obtain government approvals necessary to open new centers. These trends could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The provision for doubtful accounts and agency bank losses may increase and net income may decrease if we are unable to collect customers' personal checks that are returned due to non-sufficient funds ("NSF") in the customers' accounts or other reasons. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, we deposited approximately 5.5% and 5.0%, respectively, of all the customer checks we received and approximately 79% and 78%, respectively, of these deposited customer checks were returned unpaid because of non-sufficient funds in the customers' bank accounts or because of closed accounts or stop-payment orders. Total charge-offs, net of recoveries, for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004 were approximately $100.5 million and $83.4 million, respectively. If the number of customer checks that we deposit increases or the percent of the customers' returned checks that we charge-off increases, our provision for doubtful accounts and agency bank losses will increase and our net income will decrease. We are subject to credit risk as a result of our arrangements with lending banks. The lending banks' failure to honor their obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under the agency business model, all charges of fees and/or interest paid by a lending bank's customers are deposited directly in the lending bank's bank account. We invoice the lending bank for the marketing, processing and servicing fees payable to us by such bank. In addition, the lending bank in Pennsylvania is responsible for making payments to us if actual payday cash advance and installment loan losses are less than the bank's contractually obligated portion of the losses. We are subject to the risk that the lending banks may fail to pay all or a portion of the amounts due to us or that they fail to pay us on a timely basis. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our estimates of payday cash advance, installment loan or check-cashing, deferred-presentment or credit services losses are not adequate to absorb losses, our provision for doubtful accounts and agency bank losses would increase. This would result in a decline in our future revenues and earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses for payday cash advances we make directly to consumers and check-cashing, deferred-presentment and other credit services we offer under the standard business model and an accrual for excess bank losses for our share of losses on payday cash advances and installment loans we market, process and service for lending banks under the agency business model. To estimate the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts and accrual for excess bank losses, we consider the amount of outstanding payday cash advances owed to us, the amount of payday cash advances and installment loans owed to the lending banks and serviced by us, 23 the contract with each lending bank, historical payday cash advances or installment loans we have charged off, our current collection patterns and the current economic trends in the markets we serve. As of December 31, 2005, our allowance for doubtful accounts was $45.6 million and the accrual for excess bank losses that was reported in our current liabilities in our balance sheet was $1.4 million. These amounts, however, are estimates, and we have less experience upon which to base our estimates of losses from installment loans, check-cashing, deferred-presentment or credit services. If our actual payday cash advance, check-cashing, deferred-presentment or credit services losses are greater than our allowance for doubtful accounts, our provision for doubtful accounts and agency bank losses would increase. This would result in a decline in our future revenues and earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. With respect to the payday cash advances and installment loans that we market, process and service for the lending bank in Pennsylvania, as of December 31, 2005, our aggregate contingent liability was $17.0 million, and this amount was not included on our balance sheet. We could be obligated to pay this amount to the lending bank if the lending bank's payday cash advances and installment loans were to become uncollectible. Our ability to manage our growth may deteriorate, and our ability to execute our growth strategy may be adversely affected. We have experienced substantial growth in recent years. Our growth strategy, which is based on rapidly opening a large number of centers in existing and new markets, is subject to significant risks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence in our current markets or successfully enter new markets through the opening of new centers or acquisitions. Moreover, the start-up costs and the losses from initial operations attributable to each newly opened center place demands upon our liquidity and cash flow, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy these demands. In addition, our ability to execute our growth strategy will depend on a number of other factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including: •the prevailing laws and regulatory environment of each state in which we operate or seek to operate, which are subject to change at any time; •our ability to obtain and maintain any regulatory approvals, government permits or licenses that may be required; •our ability to manage a check-cashing and deferred-presentment business and credit service organization business and identify and implement alternative methods for doing business in Pennsylvania, Arkansas or any other state; •the degree of competition in new markets and its effect on our ability to attract new customers; •our ability to compete for expansion opportunities in suitable locations; •our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified personnel; •our ability to adapt our infrastructure and systems to accommodate our growth; and •our ability to obtain adequate financing for our expansion plans. We cannot assure you that our systems, procedures, controls and existing space will be adequate to support expansion of our operations. Our growth has placed significant demands on all aspects of our business, including our administrative, technical and financial personnel and systems. Additional expansion may further strain our management, financial and other resources. Our future results of operations will substantially depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial 24 control and reporting systems. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement our business strategy profitably in geographic areas we do not currently serve. We may incur substantial additional debt, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition by limiting our ability to obtain financing in the future and react to changes in our business. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2005, our total debt was approximately $44.6 million and our stockholders' equity was approximately $303.0 million. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, our total debt is historically the lowest during the first calendar quarter and then increases during the remainder of the year. If we incur substantial additional debt, it could have important consequences to our business. For example, it could: •restrict our operational flexibility through restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to make acquisitions, explore certain business opportunities, dispose of assets and take other actions; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; •limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future, if we need them, due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt instruments; •make us vulnerable to interest rate increases, because a portion of our borrowings is, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt obligations, which will reduce our funds available for working capital, capital expenditures and our growth strategy; and •place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt. The terms of our debt limit our ability to incur additional debt but do not prohibit us from incurring additional debt. When debt levels increase, the related risks that we now face will also increase. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to seek refinancing of all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations with respect to our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all. We depend on loans and cash management services from banks to operate our business. If banks decide to stop making loans and/or providing cash management services to companies in the payday cash advance services industry, it could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund payday cash advances, capital expenditures to build new centers and other needs. One major regional bank announced that it had revised its credit policies to prohibit future loans to companies engaged in the payday cash advance services or car title lending industries in a letter that the bank filed with the Federal Reserve Board in connection with the bank's application for approval of an acquisition. The bank's letter referred to comments filed by certain consumer advocacy organizations in connection with the bank's application, and stated that it had revised its credit policies "after considering the potential reputational risks and consumer harm" that could result from lending to companies in these industries. While this bank is not one of our existing lenders under our revolving credit facility, if our current or potential credit banks decided not to lend money to companies in the payday cash advance services industry, we could face higher borrowing costs, limitations on our ability to grow our business as well as possible cash shortages, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and 25 financial condition. This bank also no longer provides cash management services, including operating depository accounts, to payday advance companies. There are other banks that have notified us and other companies in the payday cash advance and check cashing industries that they will no longer maintain bank accounts for these companies due to reputational risks and increased compliance costs of servicing money services businesses and other cash intensive industries. While none of our larger depository banks has requested that we close our bank accounts or put other restrictions on how we use their services, if any of our larger current or future depository banks were to take such action, we could face higher costs of managing our cash and limitations on our ability to grow our business, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend to a substantial extent on borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund our liquidity needs. We have an existing revolving credit facility that allows us to borrow up to $265.0 million, assuming we are in compliance with a number of covenants and conditions. Because we typically use substantially all of our available cash generated from our operations to repay borrowings on our revolving credit facility on a current basis, we have limited cash balances and we expect that a substantial portion of our liquidity needs, including any amounts to pay any future cash dividends on our common stock, will be funded primarily from borrowings under our revolving credit facility. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $212.5 million available for future borrowings under this facility. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, our borrowings are historically the lowest during the first calendar quarter and increase during the remainder of the year. If our existing sources of liquidity are insufficient to satisfy our financial needs, we may need to raise additional debt or equity in the future. Our revolving credit facility contains restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business. Our revolving credit facility contains a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our business. These covenants restrict our ability, and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: •incur additional debt; •create liens; •effect mergers or consolidations; •make investments, acquisitions or dispositions; •pay dividends or make other payments; •enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions; •become subject to further restrictions on the creation of liens; and •have foreign subsidiaries. The breach of any covenants or obligation in our revolving credit facility will result in a default. If there is an event of default under our revolving credit facility, the lenders under the revolving credit facility could cause all amounts outstanding there under to be due and payable, subject to applicable grace periods. This could trigger cross-defaults under our other existing or future debt instruments. As a result, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might further our growth strategy. If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our revolving credit facility, the lenders under that facility could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Our obligations under the revolving credit facility are 26 guaranteed by each of our existing and future subsidiaries. The borrowings under the revolving credit facility and the subsidiary guarantees are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of the subsidiary guarantors. In addition, borrowings under the revolving credit facility are secured by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock, or similar equity interests, of the subsidiary guarantors. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our revolving credit facility and any other existing or future debt of ours would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. Our business is seasonal in nature, which causes our revenues, collection rates and earnings to fluctuate. These fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. Our business is seasonal due to the impact of fluctuating demand for payday cash advances and fluctuating collection rates throughout the year. Demand has historically been highest in the third and fourth quarters of each year, corresponding to the back-to-school and holiday seasons, and lowest in the first quarter of each year, corresponding to our customers' receipt of income tax refunds. Our provision for doubtful accounts and agency bank losses, allowance for doubtful accounts and accrual for excess bank losses are historically lowest as a percentage of revenues in the first quarter of each year, corresponding to our customers' receipt of income tax refunds, and increase as a percentage of revenues for the remainder of each year. This seasonality requires us to manage our cash flows over the course of the year. If our revenues or collections were to fall substantially below what we would normally expect during certain periods, our ability to service our debt, pay dividends on our common stock and meet our other liquidity requirements may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. In addition, our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future because of the seasonal nature of our business. Therefore, our quarterly revenues and results of operations are difficult to forecast, which, in turn could cause our future quarterly results to not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our failure to meet expectations could cause a material drop in the market price of our common stock. Because we maintain a significant supply of cash in our centers, we may be subject to cash shortages due to employee and third-party theft and errors. We also may be subject to liability as a result of crimes at our centers. Because our business requires us to maintain a significant supply of cash in each of our centers, we are subject to the risk of cash shortages resulting from employee and third-party theft and errors. Although we have implemented various programs to reduce these risks, maintain insurance coverage for theft and provide security for our employees and facilities, we cannot assure you that employee and third-party theft and errors will not occur. Cash shortages from employee and third-party theft and errors were approximately $1.6 million (0.25% of total revenues) in 2005, $1.2 million (0.21% of total revenues) in 2004 and $1.7 million (0.35% of total revenues) in 2003. Theft and errors could lead to cash shortages and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. It is also possible that crimes such as armed robberies may be committed at our centers. We could experience liability or adverse publicity arising from such crimes. For example, we may be liable if an employee, customer or bystander suffers bodily injury, emotional distress or death. Any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect operations at our centers. We rely upon our information systems to manage and operate our centers and business. Each center is part of an information network that is designed to permit us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances on a daily basis and report revenues and expenses to our headquarters. Our back-up systems and security measures could fail to prevent a disruption in our 27 information systems. Any disruption in our information systems could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our centralized headquarters functions are susceptible to disruption by catastrophic events, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our headquarters building is located in Spartanburg, South Carolina. Our information systems and administrative and management processes are primarily provided to our zone and regional management and to our centers from this centralized location, and they could be disrupted if a catastrophic event, such as a tornado, power outage or act of terror, destroyed or severely damaged our headquarters. Any of these catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key management personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may consider acquisitions of companies, technologies and products that we feel could accelerate our ability to compete or allow us to enter new markets. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: •difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, accounting and personnel; •difficulties in supporting and transitioning customers of our acquired companies; •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; •risks of entering new markets; •potential loss of key employees; and •inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset acquisition costs. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regular turnover among our managers and employees at our centers makes it more difficult for us to operate our centers and increases our costs of operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The annual turnover as of December 31, 2005, among our center managers was approximately 54% and among our other center employees was approximately 102%. Approximately 50% of the turnover has traditionally occurred in the first six months following the hire date of our center managers and employees. This turnover increases our cost of operations and makes it more difficult to operate our centers. If we are unable to retain our employees in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We used to be taxed as an S corporation under Subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code and claims of taxing authorities related to our prior status as an S corporation could harm us. Between October 1, 2001, and the closing of our initial public offering ("IPO") on December 21, 2004, we were taxed as a "pass-through" entity under Subchapter S of the Internal Revenue Code. 28 Currently, we are taxed as a C corporation under Subchapter C of the Internal Revenue Code, which is applicable to most corporations and treats the corporation as an entity that is separate and distinct from its stockholders. If our tax returns for the years in which we were an S corporation were to be audited by the Internal Revenue Service or another taxing authority and we were determined not to have qualified for, or to have violated, our S corporation status, we could be obligated to pay back taxes, interest and penalties. These amounts could include taxes on all of our net income while we were an S corporation. We currently estimate that the net income during the period we were an S corporation was approximately $225.0 million to $235.0 million. Any such claims could result in additional costs to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Until we file our final income tax return as an S corporation, the amount of deferred income tax liability recorded as a result of our conversion from an S corporation to a C corporation remains an estimate. Any change in this deferred income tax liability will result in a change in income tax expense when the final S corporation income tax return is filed. This should occur in the third quarter of 2006. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our executive officers and directors may be able to exert significant influence over our future direction. Our executive officers and directors together with certain trusts for the benefit of some of the family members of certain directors, control approximately 35% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, may be able to influence any matter requiring our stockholders' approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. As a result, this concentration of ownership may delay, prevent or deter a change in control, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company or its assets and might reduce the market price of our common stock. Applicable laws and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interest. State laws and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay, defer, prevent or render more difficult a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. For instance, they may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. State laws and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may also make it difficult for stockholders to replace or remove our directors. These provisions may facilitate entrenchment of directors that may delay, defer or prevent a change in our control, which may not be in the best interests of our stockholders. The following provisions that are included in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws have anti-takeover effects and may delay, defer or prevent a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. In particular, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws: •permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock; •prohibit stockholders from filling vacancies on our board of directors; •prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders and from taking action by written consent; •impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholder meetings; and 29 •require the approval by the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock entitled to vote on the matter for the stockholders to amend the provisions of our bylaws and certificate of incorporation described in the second through fourth bullet points above and in this bullet point. In addition, many of our subsidiaries are licensed by, and subject to, the regulatory and supervisory jurisdiction of the states where they do business. Under change in control statutes of some of these states, any person, acting alone or with others, who is seeking to acquire, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of our outstanding common stock may need to be approved by the authorities within those states. As a result, prospective investors who intend to acquire a substantial portion of our common stock may need to be aware of and to comply with those state requirements, to the extent applicable. In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may limit the ability of an "interested stockholder" to engage in business combinations with us. An interested stockholder is defined to include persons owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. We can redeem your common stock if you are or if you become a disqualified person. Federal and state laws and regulations applicable to providers of payday cash advance services may now or in the future restrict direct or indirect ownership or control of providers of payday cash advance services by disqualified persons (such as convicted felons). Our certificate of incorporation provides that we may redeem shares of your common stock to the extent deemed necessary or advisable, in the sole judgment of our Board of Directors, to prevent the loss of, or to secure the reinstatement or renewal of, any license or permit from any governmental agency that is conditioned upon some or all of the holders of our common stock possessing prescribed qualifications or not possessing prescribed disqualifications. The redemption price will be the average closing sale price per share of our common stock during the 20-trading-day period ending on the second business day preceding the redemption date fixed by our Board of Directors. At the discretion of our Board of Directors, the redemption price may be paid in cash, debt or equity securities or a combination of cash and debt or equity securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 