ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors when evaluating U.S. Shipping Partners L.P.: Our common units have no value. Under the proposed plan of reorganization contemplated by the Plan Term Sheet, our existing and outstanding common units, subordinated units and general partnership interests will be cancelled without the payment of any amount to the holders thereof. Accordingly, our outstanding common units have no value. The value of our Second Lien Notes is uncertain. Under the proposed plan of reorganization contemplated by the Plan Term Sheet, holders of our Second Lien Notes will receive fifty percent (50%) of the common stock of Reorganized USSP, before giving effect to the common stock to be issued pursuant to a management equity plan, provided that holders of the Second Lien Notes that are not U.S. Citizens for U.S. coastwise trade law purposes will receive a combination of common stock and warrants to purchase common stock. The Second Lien Notes will be cancelled. Accordingly, trading in the Second Lien Notes during the pendency of the Bankruptcy Cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks to purchasers of such securities, as holders may not be able to resell such securities and the common stock and warrants received under the Plan in respect of the Second Lien Notes may have a value less than the purchase price of such securities. We filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 on April 29, 2009 and are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with the Bankruptcy Cases. For the duration of the Bankruptcy Cases, our operations and our ability to execute our business strategy will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy. These risks include: • our ability to continue as a going concern; • our ability to operate within the restrictions and the liquidity limitations of the cash collateral order entered by the Bankruptcy Court in connection with the Bankruptcy Cases; • our ability to obtain Bankruptcy Court approval with respect to motions filed in the Bankruptcy Cases from time to time; • our ability to develop, prosecute, confirm and consummate the Plan; • the ability of third parties to seek and obtain court approval to terminate or shorten the exclusivity period for us to propose and confirm a plan of reorganization, to appoint a Chapter 11 trustee or to convert the Bankruptcy Cases to Chapter 7 cases; • our ability to obtain and maintain normal payment and other terms with customers, vendors and service providers; • our ability to attract, motivate and retain key employees; • our ability to attract and retain customers; and • our ability to fund and execute our business plan. 27 We will also be subject to risks and uncertainties with respect to the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties who have interests in the Bankruptcy Cases that may be inconsistent with our plans. These risks and uncertainties could affect our business and operations in various ways. For example, negative events or publicity associated with the Bankruptcy Cases and the resulting uncertainty regarding our future prospects may hinder our ongoing business activities and our ability to operate, fund and execute our business plan by impairing relations with existing and potential customers, negatively impacting our ability to attract, retain and compensate key executives and employees and to retain employees generally, limiting our ability to obtain trade credit, and impairing present and future relationships with vendors and service providers, all of which in turn could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Also, pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code, we need Bankruptcy Court approval for transactions outside the ordinary course of business, which may limit our ability to respond timely to events or take advantage of opportunities. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with the Bankruptcy Cases, we cannot predict or quantify the ultimate impact that events occurring during the Chapter 11 reorganization process will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and there is no certainty as to our ability to continue as a going concern. As a result of the Bankruptcy Cases, realization of assets and liquidation of liabilities are subject to uncertainty. While operating under the protection of the Bankruptcy Code, and subject to Bankruptcy Court approval or otherwise as permitted in the normal course of business, we may sell or otherwise dispose of assets and liquidate or settle liabilities for amounts other than those reflected in our consolidated financial statements. Further, a plan of reorganization could materially change the amounts and classifications reported in our consolidated historical financial statements, which do not give effect to any adjustments to the carrying value of assets or amounts of liabilities that might be necessary as a consequence of confirmation of a plan of reorganization. A long period of operating under Chapter 11 could harm our business. A long period of operating under Chapter 11 could adversely affect our business and operations. So long as the Bankruptcy Cases continue, our senior management will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the Bankruptcy Cases instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. A prolonged period of operating under Chapter 11 will also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of our business. In addition, the longer the Bankruptcy Cases continue, the more likely it is that our customers, vendors and employees will lose confidence in our ability to successfully reorganize our business. As a result, our customers may elect not to enter into new charters with us, our vendors may seek to establish alternative arrangements for providing us with goods and services, including alternative payment arrangements and our employees may seek new employment, all of which in turn could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and/or results of operations. Our having sought bankruptcy protection may also adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms from customers and vendors and others with whom we do business and to attract and retain customers, vendors and employees, all of which could adversely affect our financial performance. We may not be able to obtain confirmation of our Chapter 11 plan, and our emergence from Chapter 11 proceedings is not assured. Although a substantial majority of our Senior Secured Lenders and the holders of the Second Lien Notes have agreed to vote in favor of the Plan, there can be no assurance the Bankruptcy Court will confirm it. If the Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether we would be able to reorganize our business and what, if any, distributions holders of claims against us, including our Senior Secured Lenders, holders of our Second Lien Notes and other secured creditors, would ultimately receive with respect to their claims. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, it is possible that we would have to liquidate our assets, in which case it is likely that holders of secured claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive if we were to emerge as a viable, reorganized entity. While we expect to emerge from Chapter 11 proceedings in the future, there can be no assurance as to whether we will successfully reorganize and emerge from Chapter 11 proceedings or, if we do successfully reorganize, as to when we would emerge from Chapter 11 proceedings. Our financial results may be volatile and may not reflect historical trends. While in bankruptcy, we expect our financial results to continue to be volatile as asset impairments, asset dispositions, restructuring activities, contract terminations and rejections, and claims assessments may significantly impact our consolidated financial statements. As a result, our historical financial performance is likely not indicative of our financial performance after April 29, 2009, the date we commenced the Bankruptcy Cases. In addition, if we emerge from bankruptcy, the amounts reported in subsequent consolidated financial statements may materially change relative to historical consolidated financial statements, including as a result of revisions to our operating plans pursuant to a plan of reorganization. In addition, if we emerge from bankruptcy, we may be required to adopt fresh start accounting. If fresh start accounting is applicable, our assets and liabilities will be recorded at fair value as of the fresh start reporting date. The fair value of our assets and liabilities may differ materially from the recorded values of assets and liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. In addition, if fresh start accounting is required, our financial results after the application of fresh start accounting may be different from historical trends. See Note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere herein for further information on our accounting while in bankruptcy. 28 Conducting a successful Chapter 11 reorganization will depend significantly on our ability to retain and motivate management and key employees. Our success depends significantly on the skills, experience and efforts of our personnel. The loss of any of our officers could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations and our financial position and could delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. Our ability to develop and successfully consummate a plan of reorganization will be highly dependent upon the skills, experience and effort of our senior management and other personnel. Our ability to attract, motivate and retain key employees is restricted, however, by provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, which limit or prevent our ability to implement a retention program or take other measures intended to motivate key employees to remain with us during the pendency of the Chapter 11 proceedings. The Plan Support Agreement also precludes us from adopting any retention or similar program without the approval of the steering committee of our lenders. In addition, we must obtain Bankruptcy Court approval of employment contracts and other employee compensation programs. The loss of the services of one or more members of our senior management or certain employees with critical skills, or a diminution in our ability to attract talented, committed individuals to fill vacant positions when needs arise, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully reorganize, emerge from bankruptcy or sell all or a portion of our assets as part of the bankruptcy process. The loss of our ability to manage the Joint Venture’s vessels will exacerbate the difficulty in retaining and motivating management and key employees. We may not have sufficient available cash to operate our business. We may not have sufficient cash to operate our business. We are dependent on our cash flow from operations to meet our operating, debt service and working capital requirements. Our cash flow from operations fluctuates from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the level of consumption of refined petroleum, petrochemical and chemical products in the markets in which we operate; • level of demand for overseas transportation of grain for humanitarian organizations; • the prices we obtain for our services; • the level of demand for our vessels; • the level of our operating costs, including payments to our general partner; • delays in the delivery of newbuilds and the resulting delay in receipt of revenue from those vessels; • the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business; • the level of unscheduled off-hire days and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled drydockings of our vessels; • prevailing economic and competitive conditions; • the level of capital expenditures we make, including for drydockings for repairs, newbuildings and compliance with new regulations; • the restrictions contained in our debt instruments and our debt service requirements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; and • the refusal of certain of our vendors to extend trade credit to us. 29 Our cash flow from operations has come under increasing pressure due to the difficult current market conditions we are facing. During 2008, all but one of our ITBs began to operate in the spot market for the transportation of petroleum products, which has increased the volatility of our revenues and working capital requirements, and decreased the predictability of our cash flows. Beginning in late March 2008 market conditions in the spot market, where all of our four remaining ITBs currently operate, deteriorated substantially due to overall declining economic activity and decreased demand for the domestic coastwise transportation of petroleum products. Additionally, refinery utilization has declined considerably, fuel prices for operating our vessels were at record levels during the second and third quarters of 2008 and are still higher than historical levels, and newbuilds have increased capacity serving the Jones Act market at a faster rate than demand and the decrease in capacity due to the required phase-outs under OPA 90. Due to these market shifts, as well as the age of our ITBs, our ITBs operating in the spot market have, beginning in the second quarter of 2008, incurred idle periods greater than, and charter rates below, our expectations at the beginning of 2008. Three of our four ITBs are currently laid up due to lack of demand for their services. During the first half of 2008, we also experienced modest decreased demand for the domestic coastwise transportation of chemical products served by our chemical transporting vessels, which we believe was primarily due to our customers working off inventory levels due to the decline in economic activity. Beginning again in the fourth quarter of 2008 and continuing into 2009, we have experienced a more significant decrease in demand for the domestic coastwise transportation of chemical products served by our chemical transporting vessels due to declining worldwide economic activity. Through 2008, our ITB fleet was our largest source of revenue and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”). However, the expiration of the Hess support agreement in September 2007, the fact that all of our ITBs are operating in the spot market, where vessels are employed on a single voyage basis, rather than under long-term charters, increased pressure on rates in the spot market due to an increasing supply of vessels and significantly decreased demand for transportation services, together with higher operating expenses of our ITBs due to their age and the new union contracts, has negatively impacted the operating income and EBITDA provided by our ITBs. We sold two of our ITBs during the fourth quarter of 2008 and due to continued lack of demand for our four remaining ITBs, it is likely we will dispose of one or more of our ITBs during 2009. Additionally, participation in the spot market requires us to carry higher amounts of working capital than operating under time charters, as under spot charters fuel costs are our responsibility and are paid at the time fuel is delivered, and not realized economically until payment is made to us by the customer. Additionally, payment generally occurs at the completion of a voyage, compared to time charters, where payment is generally made by the customer at the beginning of a fixed period of time, such as a month. In addition, grain voyages, where we are paid following delivery of the grain to its final destination, tend to be substantially longer in duration than refined petroleum product voyages. Certain of our vendors have been unwilling to extend trade credit to us, instead requiring payment up front due to our limited liquidity. With the addition of two ATBs in 2008 and all of our four remaining ITBs now participating in the spot market, we expect our working capital requirements to increase. We have no availability under our revolving credit facility to finance this increase in working capital requirements and therefore must finance our working capital requirements solely from cash flow from operations. In order to assure that we have sufficient cash to operate our business, we agreed with our lenders not to make the December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009 principal and interest payments due under our senior credit facility and also not to make the February 15, 2009 interest payment due on our Second Lien Notes to the holders of approximately 91% of the outstanding notes who waived such interest payment. Not making these payments provided us with approximately $21.0 million of cash to finance our operations and working capital needs. In addition to the cash requirements necessary to fund ongoing operations, we have incurred significant professional fees and other costs in connection with the Bankruptcy Cases and expect that we will continue to incur significant professional fees and costs. We cannot assure you that the amounts of cash available from operations will be sufficient to fund our operations, including operations during the period until such time as the Plan is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. 30 Our liquidity and our ability to continue as a going concern, including our ability to meet our ongoing operational obligations, is dependent upon, among other things: (i) our ability to comply with the terms and conditions of the cash collateral order entered by the Bankruptcy Court in connection with the Bankruptcy Cases; (ii) our ability to maintain adequate cash on hand; (iii) our ability to generate cash from operations; (iv) our ability to obtain confirmation of and to consummate the Plan under the Bankruptcy Code; and (v) the cost, duration and outcome of the reorganization process. Our ability to maintain adequate liquidity depends in part upon industry conditions and general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the success of our efforts. If we are unable to generate enough cash to meet our liquidity needs, we could be forced to discontinue some or all of our operations. Our long-term liquidity requirements and the adequacy of our capital resources are difficult to predict at this time and ultimately cannot be determined until the Plan is confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court. Because we will not have a revolving credit facility upon emergence from bankruptcy, our inability to finance our operations and working capital needs from our operating cash flow will have a material adverse effect on our business. Our efforts to improve our liquidity position will be challenging given the current economic climate. Current economic fundamentals portray a negative outlook for the petroleum and chemical businesses for at least a significant portion of 2009 due to a global recession that is already the longest and most severe in the post war period. These economic conditions have resulted in a decrease in demand for our vessels and a decline in our revenues and available capital. Difficult conditions in the global economy and capital markets have materially adversely affected our business, results of operations and financial condition and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the near future. The success of our business is dependent upon global economic conditions and conditions in the global financial markets, which conditions are outside our control and difficult to predict. A lengthy continuation of the slowdown in the U.S. economy or other economic conditions affecting capital markets, such as declining oil and commodity chemical prices, failing or weakened financial institutions, inflation, deteriorating business conditions and interest rates, will continue to adversely affect our business and financial condition by reducing demand for our services. The consequences of a recession include a lower level of economic activity and uncertainty regarding energy prices and the capital and commodity markets. The lower level of economic activity has resulted in a decline in energy consumption and manufacturing activity, which combined with the significant decrease in oil and commodity chemical prices, has significantly reduced demand for our services and materially adversely affected, and will continue to materially adversely affect, our revenue, liquidity and future growth. Instability in the financial markets, as a result of recession or otherwise, also affects the cost of capital and our ability to raise capital. These events increase our vulnerability to further adverse general economic consequences and industry conditions and the likelihood that our cash flows and financial condition will be materially adversely affected as a result thereof. The economic situation could also have an impact on our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us. Additionally, the current economic situation could lead to further reduced demand for, and/or reductions in the prices of, oil or commodity chemicals, which could have a negative impact on demand for our services, which will adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. While the ultimate outcome and impact of the current financial crisis cannot be predicted, it has had a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing significant volatility and disruption for more than twelve months, which has exerted significant downward pressure on availability of liquidity and credit capacity for substantially all companies. Adverse capital and credit market conditions will continue to significantly affect our ability to meet liquidity needs, our access to capital, our cost of capital, and our ability to conduct our business. In response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to financial institutions, the Federal Government, Federal Reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking actions to address the financial crisis. We cannot predict what impact such actions will have on the financial markets and whether such actions will be successful. Such continued volatility could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur, or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. 31 Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade or if those provisions were modified or repealed. We are subject to the Jones Act and other federal laws that restrict maritime transportation between points in the United States to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the United States, at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens and manned by U.S. crews. Compliance with the Jones Act increases our operating costs. We are responsible for monitoring the ownership of our common units and other partnership interests to ensure our compliance with the Jones Act. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in U.S. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels During the past several years, interest groups have lobbied Congress to modify or repeal the Jones Act to facilitate foreign flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. flag vessels under the Jones Act and cargo preference laws. Foreign vessels generally have lower construction costs and generally operate at significantly lower costs than we do in the U.S. markets, which would likely result in reduced charter rates. We believe that continued efforts will be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act and cargo preference laws currently benefiting U.S. flag vessels. If these efforts are successful, it could result in significantly increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, a short-term waiver, which expired on October 24, 2005, was granted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, lifting the Jones Act restriction on foreign-flag carriers, allowing these carriers to replace transporting needs arising from out-of- service pipelines. We cannot assure that future waivers will not be granted or that any such waivers will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We must make substantial expenditures to comply with mandatory drydocking requirements for our fleet. Vessels are required by both domestic (United States Coast Guard) and international (International Maritime Organization) regulatory bodies to be inspected twice every five years. To date, our ITBs have participated in the Underwater Inspection In Lieu of Drydock (“UWILD”) Program which allows vessels to be drydocked once every five years with a mid-period UWILD. In April 2007, we were advised by the U.S. Coast Guard that it will allow continued participation in the UWILD Program of non-or double hulled tank barges that are over 15 years of age if they only trade domestically. We expect that our ITBs will qualify to remain in the UWILD Program. The ATBs should also qualify for the UWILD program. Because of their age, our parcel tankers and the Houston must be drydocked twice every five years. Two of our ITB units are scheduled for UWILDs in 2009 and, in 2010, one ITB unit is scheduled for drydocking and another for a UWILD. Given the lack of demand for our ITBs and the cost of drydocking them, we do not currently plan to drydock any of the ITBs; rather, we will dispose of them prior to their next scheduled drydocking. Accordingly, if an ITB is not permitted to participate in the UWILD Program, we would likely dispose of the vessel at that time rather than undertake a drydock, which will reduce our revenue. If we elect to drydock an ITB that is no longer permitted to participate in the UWILD Program, we will experience additional off-hire days, which will reduce our revenue. In addition, vessels may have to be drydocked in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage. We estimate that future drydockings of ITBs will cost approximately $4.5 million per vessel. We estimate drydocking of the parcel and product tankers will cost approximately $3.5 million to $6.0 million per vessel and drydocking of the ATB units will initially cost approximately $1.0 million to $2.0 million per vessel. When drydocked, each of our ITB units will be out of service for approximately 50 to 70 days, each of our parcel tankers and the Houston will be out of service for approximately 35 to 60 day and each of our ATB units will be out of service approximately 25 days. If we are required to conduct a second drydock for our ITBs in each five year period rather than rely on an underwater survey, we estimate that our ITBs will be out of service for approximately 14 to 20 days and the second drydock will cost approximately $1.0 million to $2.0 million. Even if our ITBs continue to participate in the UWILD Program, we will need to conduct an enhanced survey, which will result in the vessel being off-hire, and therefore not earning any revenue, for an additional 12 days each time a survey is conducted, at a cost of approximately $0.5 million. The longer out of service period and increased expense of a drydocking as compared to the time required for and the cost of conducting an underwater survey could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. At the time we drydock these vessels, the actual cost of drydocking may be higher due to inflation and other factors. In addition, vessels in drydock will not generate any income, which will reduce our revenue. 32 The Sea Venture must be drydocked in June 2009. Unless we obtain a contract of affreightment for the Sea Venture, we will not drydock the vessel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We will need to acquire OPA 90 compliant vessels in order to maintain a significant presence in the domestic coastwise transportation of petroleum products, which will be expensive, and we currently do not have the financial ability to do so. As part of our OPA 90 compliance program, we entered into a contract with NASSCO for the construction of nine 49,000 deadweight tons (“dwt”) double-hulled tankers, the first five of which were being financed through the Joint Venture. Our ability to purchase these vessels from the Joint Venture was dependent on our ability to finance the purchase of these vessels upon their completion and, given our current financial situation and current market conditions, we were not able to purchase the Golden State or the Pelican State and did not expect to be able to purchase any of the remaining vessels in the immediate future and, as a result, we will not receive the bulk of the benefits associated with ownership of these vessels, which will adversely affect our growth strategy and our OPA 90 compliance strategy for replacement of our ITB fleet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Pursuant to the terms of the credit facility under the proposed Plan, we will not be able to incur additional debt other than pursuant to sale/leaseback financings, which will adversely affect our ability to acquire OPA 90 compliant vessels to replace our aging fleet, which could limit our ability to continue to operate our business as currently conducted. Because the Joint Venture did not exercise its option to have the rights and obligations under the NASSCO contract to construct up to four additional tankers assigned to the Joint Venture and due to Product Carriers inability to obtain the necessary financing to construct these four tankers due to its financial condition and current market conditions, the Partnership has been advised by NASSCO that it is exercising its rights under the construction contract with Product Carriers to use commercially reasonable efforts to sell and assign Product Carriers’ rights under the construction contract to have four product tankers constructed. Product Carriers is obligated to reimburse NASSCO for any damages incurred by NASSCO as a result of these tankers not being constructed, or if they are transferred to a third party at a loss to NASSCO, up to a maximum of $10.0 million (plus costs and expenses incurred by NASSCO) for each such tanker, with such amounts being funded solely out of monies received by Product Carriers in respect of its equity investment in the first five vessels constructed by the Joint Venture. As a result, the Partnership believed that there was substantial uncertainty that the Partnership would realize any monetary return on or of its $70 million equity investment in the Joint Venture. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel and may increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of our older vessels will increase. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional expenditures. For example, if the U.S. Coast Guard or the American Bureau of Shipping, an independent classification society that inspects the hull and machinery of commercial ships to assess compliance with minimum criteria as set by U.S. and international regulations, enacts new standards, we may be required to make significant expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment. In order to satisfy any such requirement, we may be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions, including customer requirements, may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to continue to operate some of our vessels which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. These capital expenditures include expenditures for drydocking our vessels, modifying our vessels and acquiring new vessels to replace existing vessels as they reach the end of their useful lives. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to incur borrowings, enter into sale/leaseback transactions or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing, the nature of the employment of the vessel and offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels or construct or purchase new vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. Pursuant to the terms of the credit facility under the proposed Plan, we will not be able to incur additional debt other than pursuant to sale/leaseback financings, which will adversely affect our ability to acquire OPA 90 compliant vessels to replace our aging fleet, which could limit our ability to continue to operate our business as currently conducted. 33 A decline in demand for refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products, or decreases in U.S. refining activity, particularly in the coastal regions of the United States, or a decrease in the cost of importing refined petroleum products, could cause demand for U.S. flag tank vessel capacity and charter rates and vessel values to decline which would decrease our revenues and our cash flow. The nature, timing and degree of changes in U.S. flag shipping industry conditions are subject to market forces that have proven to be unpredictable and may adversely affect the values of our vessels and may result in significant fluctuations in the amount of charter hire we earn, which could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results. Charter rates and vessel values may fluctuate over time due to changes in the demand for U.S. flag product carriers and barges, which will affect our revenue and cash flows and our ability to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. Because our vessels constitute a major component of the assets securing our indebtedness, a decrease in vessel value could adversely affect our ability to borrow or to repay our debt using proceeds from the sale of vessels. The demand for U.S. flag tank vessel capacity is influenced by the demand for refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products and other factors including: • global and regional economic and political conditions; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported; • environmental concerns; • availability and cost of alternative methods of transportation of products; and • in the case of tank vessels transporting refined petroleum products, competition from alternative sources of energy, such as natural gas, and alternate transportation methods. Any of these factors could adversely affect the demand for U.S. flag tank vessel capacity and charter rates. Any decrease in demand for tank vessel capacity or decrease in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. Additionally, the demand for our services is heavily influenced by the level of refinery capacity in the United States, particularly in the Gulf Coast region. Any decline in refining capacity on the Gulf Coast, even on a temporary basis, may significantly reduce the demand for waterborne movements of refined petroleum products. For example, following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, movements of refined petroleum products from the Gulf Coast were significantly curtailed in 2005 and 2006, with repairs to hurricane–damaged Gulf Coast refineries being completed in late 2006. As a result of the current recession, the level of refinery capacity in the United States, including the Gulf Coast region, has declined significantly, which has adversely affected our business, results of operations and financial condition. The demand for U.S. flag tank vessel capacity is influenced by the cost of importing refined petroleum products. Historically, charter rates for vessels qualified to participate in the coastwise trade under the Jones Act have been higher than charter rates for foreign flag vessels because of the higher construction and operating costs of U.S. flag vessels due to the Jones Act requirements that such vessels must be built in the United States and manned by U.S. crews. Therefore, it has historically been cheaper for certain areas of the United States, such as the northeastern United States, to import refined petroleum products than to obtain them from U.S. refineries. International shipping rates can influence the amount of refined petroleum products imported into the United States. As a result of the worldwide decrease in demand for petroleum tankers due to the current recession, charter rates for foreign flag vessels have declined, making it cheaper to import refined petroleum products to other regions of the East Coast and the West Coast to meet demand and resulting in increased imports of refined petroleum products into the United States, which has had a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Declining economic activity has also led to a significant decrease in demand for the domestic coastwise transportation of chemical products served by our chemical transporting vessels. 34 The current economic situation could adversely affect the collectability of our trade receivables. We are subject to certain credit risks with respect to our counterparties on contracts and failure of such counterparties to meet their obligations could cause us to suffer losses on such contracts, decreasing revenues and EBITDA. We charter our vessels to other parties on both a short-term and long-term basis, who pay us a daily rate of hire. As a result, we are reliant on the ability of charterers to pay charter hire, especially when spot market rates are less than previously agreed upon time charter rates. Historically, we have not experienced any material problem collecting charter hire but the global economic recession that commenced in 2008 may affect charterers more severely than the prior recessions that have occurred, and some of our customers have filed, or may file, for protection under the U.S. bankruptcy laws and may reject their charter agreement with us. One of our principal customers for our chemical fleet has filed for bankruptcy and is operating its business as a debtor-in-possession. Marine transportation has inherent operating risks and our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: • marine disasters; • bad weather; • mechanical failures; • grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; • human error; and • war and terrorism. All of these hazards can result in death or injury to persons, loss of property, environmental damages, delays or rerouting. If one of our vessels were involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental contamination, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow. We carry insurance to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business. Nonetheless, risks may arise against which we are not adequately insured. For example, a catastrophic spill could exceed our insurance coverage and any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, the aggregate amount of which could be material. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our vessels failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition and have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may not be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future, and we cannot guarantee that any particular insurance claim will be paid. In the past, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Furthermore, even if insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement ship in the event of a loss. We do not carry loss-of-hire insurance, which covers the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as for unscheduled drydocking due to damage to the vessel from accidents. Accordingly, any loss of a vessel or extended vessel off-hire, due to accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. See “—We have a limited number of vessels, and any loss of use of a vessel could adversely affect our results of operations.” Because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations, we may be subject to calls or premiums in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expenses to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flow and our ability to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. 35 In November 2008 we received a notice from our protection and indemnity association that due to the impact of the recent financial market turmoil combined with substantial association claims, the association needed to increase its reserves, which they would accomplish through levying supplementary premiums for the 2006 and 2007 policy years. The association also issued an estimate of a supplementary premium on the 2008 policy year and ordered a general increase for the forthcoming 2009 policy year. The supplementary premium to be levied is set at 20% and 25% of the policy year’s annual premiums for the 2006 and 2007 policy years, respectively. There is an estimate of 20% supplementary premium for the 2008 policy year which will be reviewed in October 2009 and adjusted according to claims activity as well as investment income. Supplemental premiums for the 2006 and 2007 policy years are approximately $342,000 and $487,000, respectively, and are reflected in our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 as other expense. These premiums are payable in March 2009 and June 2009, respectively. An estimated $474,000 was recognized as other expense for the year ended December 31, 2008 related to the additional supplemental premium for the 2008 policy year. The association will review the supplementary premium to be levied for the 2008 policy year in October 2009. Renewals for the policy beginning in February 2009 increased by 6.7%. Decreased utilization of our vessels due to bad weather could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Unpredictable weather patterns tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of refined petroleum products and our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of bad weather. In addition, adverse weather conditions can cause delays in the delivery of newbuilds and in transporting cargoes. Under our spot voyage charters, we bear the risk of delays due to weather conditions. For example, our revenues and EBITDA were negatively impacted during 2007 by approximately $2.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively, due to the 61 day unplanned out-of-service period for the ITB Baltimore to repair damages it sustained from Hurricane Dean while in the shipyard after completing its regularly scheduled drydocking. An increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The cost of fuel for our vessels is a significant component of our voyage expenses under our voyage charters and during most of 2008 we experienced significant increases in the cost of fuel used in our operations. While we have been able to pass a portion of these increases on to our customers pursuant to the terms of our charters, there can be no assurances that we will be able to pass on any future increases in fuel prices. If fuel prices increase and we are not able to pass such increases on to our customers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these customers could adversely affect our business and operating results. The portion of our revenues attributable to any single customer changes over time, depending on the level of relevant activity by the customer, our ability to meet the customer’s needs and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our three largest customers each in 2008, 2007 and 2006, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 39%, 47% and 60% of our consolidated revenues for those periods, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for those periods. At any given time in the future, the cash reserves of our customers may be diminished or exhausted and we cannot assure you that the customers will be able to make charter payments to us. If our customers are unable to make charter payments to us, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. In addition, we could lose a charterer or the benefits of a time charter because of disagreements with a customer or if a customer exercises specific limited rights to terminate a charter. If we were to lose any of these customers or if any of these customers significantly reduced its use of our services, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The loss of our ability to manage the Joint Venture’s vessels could adversely affect our ability to retain our existing customers or obtain new customers. Our vessels are inspected and audited periodically by our customers, in some cases as a precondition to chartering our vessels. Failure to meet our customers’ inspection standards could cause them not to contract with us, and could adversely impact our operating results. 36 We may not be able to renew our long-term contracts when they expire or obtain contracts for the vessels we have under construction which could adversely affect our operations. Our three parcel tankers, the Chemical Pioneer, the Charleston and the Sea Venture, as well as the ATB Freeport and the ATB Brownsville, primarily transport specialty refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products, such as lubricants, paraxylene, caustic soda and glycols, from refineries and petrochemical manufacturing facilities to other manufacturing facilities or distribution terminals. These vessels (other than the Sea Venture, which is laid up) are currently operating under contracts with several petroleum and petrochemical customers with specified minimum volumes that also generally require these customers to ship on our parcel tankers any additional volumes of these products shipped to the ports specified in the contracts that accounted for virtually all of their respective usable capacity for 2008. However, due to the significant decline in demand for commodity chemical products, our customers have in general in the last several months only been shipping the specified minimum volumes, and in some cases less than the specified minimum volumes, and one of our principal customers has filed for protection under the bankruptcy laws. These contracts expire at various dates between 2009 and 2014. Additionally, we commenced a long-term charter that accounts for 100% of the usable capacity of the Houston through mid-2011. The ATB Galveston is operating under a long-term charter that accounts for 100% of its usable capacity through September 2011, and the ATB Corpus Christi will, upon completion of construction, begin to operate under a long-term charter that accounts for 100% of its usable capacity through September 2012. These arrangements may not be renewed or, if renewed, may not be renewed at similar rates. Of our six ITBs that were in operation at the beginning of 2008, one is currently operating in the spot market, two were sold in the fourth quarter of 2008, and three are laid up in port due to lack of demand. As a result of the newbuild vessels entering the market, as well as the age of our vessels, the charter rates for and utilization of the ITBs will in combination provide revenue and EBITDA that on average are substantially below the revenue and EBITDA achieved under the old contracts and the Hess support agreement, which has had, and will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, our failure to obtain rates on our newbuild ATBs that provide a reasonable return on these new vessels will also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, to the extent that vessels are employed in the spot market, rather than pursuant to long-term charters, our cash flows will be less predictable and may be more volatile, and this volatility could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, and will adversely affect our ability to pay principal of, and interest on, our debt. Our business has high fixed costs that continue even if our vessels are not in service. In addition, low utilization due to reduced demand or other causes or a significant decrease in charter rates has had, and will continue to have, a significant negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Industry trends away from long-term charters in favor of shorter-term charters may impact our ability to finance newly built vessels. The long-haul marine transportation services market for refined petroleum products in the U.S. domestic “coastwise” trade appears to be trending away from long-term charters in excess of three years in favor of shorter-term charters. If this trend continues, it will become increasingly difficult for us to finance the construction and purchase of new vessels with long-term debt or capital leases. In determining the amount of credit to extend with respect to a particular vessel, lenders place higher values on predictable cash flows that result from longer-term charters. If we cannot secure long-term charters for the product tankers currently under construction, we many not be able to obtain adequate debt financing to acquire these vessels on reasonable terms or at all. We have a limited number of vessels and any loss of use of a vessel could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently own four ITB units, one product tanker, three parcel tankers and three ATB units. Our product tanker, parcel tankers and ATBs are committed to certain customers through long term contracts, and most of our customers under these long-term contracts will not accept our ITBs. In the event any of our vessels under long-term contract has to be taken out of service for more than a few days, we may be unable to fulfill our obligations under our long-term contracts with our remaining vessels. If we are unable to fulfill such obligations, we would have to contract with a third-party for use of a vessel, at our expense, to transport the charterer’s products, which might not be possible on acceptable terms or at all, or default under the contract, which would allow the charterer to terminate the contract. Also, if our one ATB unit currently under construction is not completed by the scheduled due date, we may be unable to fulfill our obligations under the long-term contract we have in place for that vessel. If we are unable to fulfill such obligations, we would have to contract with a third party for use of a vessel, at our expense, to transport the charterer’s products, which may not be possible on acceptable terms or at all, or default under the contract, which would allow the charterer to terminate the contract. 37 Our revenues and EBITDA were negatively impacted during 2007 by approximately $2.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively, due to the 61 day unplanned out-of-service period for the ITB Baltimore in 2007 to repair damages it sustained from Hurricane Dean while in the shipyard after completing its regularly scheduled drydocking. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our marine transportation business. Due to our lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in this business would have a significantly greater impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained and operated more diverse assets. Maritime claimants could arrest our vessels which could interrupt our cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against that vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a maritime lien holder may enforce its lien by arresting a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could interrupt our cash flow and require us to pay whatever amount may be required to have the arrest lifted. Increased competition in the domestic tank vessel industry could result in reduced revenue and EBITDA and loss of customers and market share for us. Contracts for our vessels are generally awarded on a competitive basis, and competition in the markets we serve is intense and obtaining such charters generally requires a lengthy and time consuming screening and bidding process that may extend for months. The most important factors determining whether a contract will be awarded include: • availability, age and capability of the vessels; • ability to meet the customer’s schedule; • price; • safety record; • ability to satisfy the customer’s vetting requirements; • reputation, including perceived quality of the vessel; and • quality and experience of management. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources and larger operating staffs than we do. As a result, they may be able to make vessels available more quickly and efficiently, transition to double-hulled vessels more rapidly and withstand the effects of declines in charter rates for a longer period of time. They may be better able to address a downturn in the domestic demand for refined petroleum, petrochemical or commodity chemical products. As a result, we could lose customers and market share to these competitors. All of our ITBs were originally constructed more than 24 years ago. While all of these vessels are “in-class,” meaning the vessel has been certified by a classification society as being built and maintained in accordance with the rules of that classification society and comply with the applicable rules and regulations of the United States Coast Guard, some existing and potential customers have stated that they will not charter vessels that are more than 20 years old. As a result of this age limitation, and the number of newbuilds expected to come into the market in the next several years, demand for our ITBs has been materially adversely affected. We originally expected the supply of domestic tank vessels competing with us to decrease over the next several years due to OPA 90, which mandates the phase-out of certain non-double-hulled tank vessels at varying times by January 1, 2015; and the Jones Act, which restricts the supply of new vessels by requiring that all vessels participating in the coastwise trade be constructed in the United States. However, with the announced newbuilding programs, we expect that these new vessels will become fully utilized on delivery and replace substantially all the capacity taken out of the market due to OPA 90. The level of newbuilds, combined with the decline in demand for marine transportation due to the decrease in economic activity, has resulted in an over-supply of vessel capacity, which has resulted in a decrease in charter rates, particularly in the spot market. In addition, any additional newbuildings or retrofittings of existing tank vessels may result in additional capacity that the market will not be able to absorb at the anticipated demand levels. The availability of additional capacity could adversely affect the charter rates that we can obtain for, and utilization of, our vessels, and limit our ability to obtain charters for our ITBs at reasonable rates or at all. If supply increases at a faster rate than demand, the charter rates and demand for our vessels could decline significantly. Three of our four ITBs are currently laid up due to lack of demand. 38 We face competition from refined petroleum product pipelines. Long-haul transportation of refined petroleum products is generally less costly by pipeline than by tank vessel. The construction of new pipeline segments to carry petroleum products into our markets, including pipeline segments that connect with existing pipeline systems, the expansion of existing pipelines and the conversion of existing non-refined petroleum product pipelines, could adversely affect our ability to compete in particular locations. Our transportation of petrochemical and commodity chemical products faces intense competition from railroads, which we estimate transport approximately two-thirds of all petrochemical and commodity chemical products. We believe the cost of transporting these products by rail is generally higher than the cost of marine transportation, and any decrease in rail rates could adversely affect the amount of petrochemical and commodity chemical products we carry and the rates we can charge. Our vessels, particularly our ITBs, may be limited from international transportation of petroleum products due to international regulations similar to OPA 90. This may limit the overseas opportunities of our vessels. International standards, as promulgated by the International Maritime Organization (“IMO”), require that our vessels meet standards similar to OPA 90 standards four years prior to OPA 90 phase-out requirements. While we do not currently transport petroleum internationally, our ITBs will not be permitted to trade petroleum products internationally beyond the IMO phase-out dates that commence in 2009 or 2010, limiting alternate uses. Additionally, if we were to utilize vessels to trade petroleum internationally, such vessels may not qualify for participation in the UWILD Program, which requires that the barges older than 15 years participating in the UWILD Program only trade domestically. Delays or cost overruns in the construction of a new vessel or the drydock maintenance of existing vessels could adversely affect our business. Revenue from new or retrofitted vessels may not be immediate or as high as expected. We currently have one new ATB unit under construction and are overseeing the construction of four new product tankers on behalf of the Joint Venture. In addition, our vessels are required by both domestic (United States Coast Guard) and international (International Maritime Organization) regulatory bodies to be inspected twice every five years. To date, our vessels have participated in the Underwater Inspection In Lieu of Drydock (“UWILD”) Program which allows vessels to be drydocked once every five years with a mid-period UWILD. In April 2007, we were advised by the U.S. Coast Guard that it will allow continued participation in the UWILD Program of non-or double hulled tank barges that are over 15 years of age if they only trade domestically. Also, on occasion, our vessels may undergo unscheduled drydocking due to damage. To the extent our vessels are unable to participate in the UWILD program, we could experience additional off-hire days, which will reduce our revenue, and increased costs, which will adversely affect our cash flow. During a drydocking, an ITB is removed from service (typically for 50-70 days), each of our parcel tankers and the Houston will be out of service for approximately 35 to 60 day and each of our ATB units will be out of service approximately 25 days, during which major inspection, repair and maintenance work is carried out. We estimate future drydock costs for our ITBs will be approximately $4.5 million per vessel for work occurring in U.S. shipyards. We can drydock the ITBs in foreign shipyards where the drydocking costs may be lower. However, if we choose to drydock an ITB unit in a foreign shipyard, the ITB may be off-hire and, therefore, not earning any revenue for a longer period of time as it travels to and from the foreign shipyard if we cannot find a cargo to transport during that voyage. In addition to drydocking each ITB unit every five years, for each ITB unit that qualifies for the UWILD Program, we are required to conduct a mid-period underwater survey in lieu of drydocking the ITB for inspection. An underwater survey only requires a vessel to be removed from service for approximately 12 days at an approximate cost of $0.5 million. If we are required to conduct a second drydock in each five year period rather than rely on an underwater survey, we estimate that our ITBs will be out of service for approximately 14 to 20 days and the second drydock will cost approximately $1.0 million to $2.0 million. We estimate drydocking of the parcel and product tankers will cost approximately $3.5 million to $6.0 million per vessel and drydocking of the ATB units will initially cost approximately $1.0 million to $2.0 million per vessel. 39 Construction and drydocking will be subject to the risk of delay or cost overruns caused by the following: • inability of the selected contractors to perform their obligations under the various construction agreements; • unforeseen quality or engineering problems; • work stoppages or labor shortages; • unanticipated cost increases; • our requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; • inability to have the work performed in the United States; • delays in receipt of necessary equipment; • inability to obtain the requisite permits, approvals or certifications from the U.S. Coast Guard and the American Bureau of Shipping upon completion of work; • changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; and • weather related conditions, such as hurricanes. Significant delays or construction cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on expected contract commitments for new or modified vessels and our future revenues, liquidity and cash flows. The construction of the remaining ATB unit and the new tankers may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. Our first delivered ATB unit, the ATB Freeport, was delivered more than one year after its originally scheduled delivery date and at a cost (after giving effect to a payment by the original contractor to cover certain cost overruns, but exclusive of capitalized interest and credits and other legal claims that we believe we can recover) approximately $46 million higher than the original cost under the contract; this delay and cost overrun had an adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. The construction contracts for the remaining ATB and the tankers being constructed contain cost escalators that could increase the cost of constructing these vessels. In addition, our anticipated revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds to construct or purchase the vessels. For instance, when we build a new vessel, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after the vessel is put in operation. Moreover, significant delays in construction of new vessels could allow a charterer to cancel the charter or require us to charter additional vessels to meet our contractual obligations. Furthermore, customer demand for, and revenues from, new vessels may not be as high as we currently anticipate and, as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness may be adversely affected. There is limited availability in U.S. shipyards for drydocking a vessel. As a result, the costs of performing drydock maintenance in the United States may be significantly higher than they are overseas. Furthermore, U.S. shipyards may not have available capacity to perform drydock maintenance on our vessels at the times they require drydock maintenance, particularly in the event of an unscheduled drydock due to accident or other damage, in which event we will be required to have the work performed in an overseas shipyard. This may result in the vessel being off-hire, and therefore not earning any revenue, for a longer period of time because of the time required to travel to and from the overseas shipyard. In addition, we may be required to place a deposit in order to reserve shipyard slots for construction of new vessels, which may not be refundable if we elect not to proceed with such new construction. The growth of our business will be adversely affected due to the termination of our right to manage the vessels constructed by the Joint Venture. One of the ways we intended to grow our business and replace vessels that are not OPA 90 compliant was through the construction and purchase of new vessels. In our efforts to expand our business by constructing new vessels, we entered into a contract with NASSCO to construct nine 49,000 dwt double-hulled petroleum tankers. We formed the Joint Venture for the construction of the first five petroleum tankers by NASSCO, and provided $70 million of equity financing. As a result of our agreement in principle to settle the litigation between us and the owners of the 60% interest in, and the lenders to, the Joint Venture, subject to completion of definitive documentation and Bankruptcy Court approval, we will no longer manage the Joint Venture’s vessels, nor will we retain the right to purchase, at previously negotiated prices, the Joint Venture vessels upon completion of construction, although we anticipate we will have a right of first offer for any vessel that the Joint Venture determines to sell. Our loss of these rights will adversely affect our growth strategy and our OPA 90 compliance strategy for replacement of our ITB fleet, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. See “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” 40 We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, which can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business and which may affect our ability to sell, lease, charter or otherwise transfer our vessels. Increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, insurance requirements and the manning, construction, operation and transfer of vessels significantly affect our operations. Many aspects of the marine transportation industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the U.S. Coast Guard, the International Maritime Organization, the National Transportation Safety Board, the U.S. Customs Service and the U.S. Maritime Administration, as well as to regulation by private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. The U.S. Coast Guard and the National Transportation Safety Board set safety standards and are authorized to investigate vessel accidents and recommend improved safety standards. The U.S. Coast Guard is authorized to inspect vessels at will. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Some environmental laws impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA 90, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Additionally, an oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and costs for natural resource damages under other federal and state laws or civil actions. The potential for these releases could increase as we increase our fleet capacity. Most states bordering on a navigable waterway have enacted legislation providing for potentially unlimited liability for the discharge of pollutants within their waters. In order to maintain compliance with existing and future laws, we incur, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs in meeting maintenance and inspection requirements, developing and implementing emergency preparedness procedures, and obtaining insurance coverage or other required evidence of financial ability sufficient to address pollution incidents. These laws can: • reduce the economic value of our vessels; • require a reduction in cargo carrying capacity or other structural or operational changes; • make our vessels less desirable to potential charterers; • lead to decreases in available insurance coverage for affected vessels; or • result in the denial of access to certain ports. We believe that regulation of the shipping industry will continue to become more stringent and more expensive for us and our competitors. Further, a serious marine incident occurring in U.S. waters that results in significant oil pollution could result in additional regulation. Future environmental and other requirements may be adopted that could limit our ability to operate, require us to incur substantial additional costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition and our ability to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. We depend upon unionized labor for the provision of our services. Any work stoppages or labor disturbances could disrupt our business. All unlicensed marine personnel are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the Seafarers’ International Union that expires in 2012. Licensed officers, including our Captains, are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the American Maritime Officers union that expires in 2010. Both union agreements effectively commenced in the second quarter of 2007. Any work stoppages or other labor disturbances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. 41 Our employees are covered by federal laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. All of our seagoing employees are covered by provisions of the Jones Act and general maritime law. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes, we have greater exposure for claims made by these employees as compared to employers whose employees are not covered by these provisions. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business and one of those persons faces conflicts in the allocation of his time to our business. We depend on the services of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for senior management or key employees if their services were no longer available. We currently do not carry any key man insurance on any of our employees. In addition, we may not be able to hire crew personnel meeting our standards if we expand our fleet. In addition, as a result of the planned expansion of our fleet through the construction of new vessels, we may need to hire additional key technical, support and other qualified personnel to ensure that construction is completed timely and on budget. If we are unsuccessful in attracting such personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current financial situation makes it more difficult to attract and retain personnel, and the loss of our ability to manage the Joint Venture’s vessels will exacerbate the difficulty in attracting and retaining management and key employees. The employment agreement of Mr. Jeffrey Miller, our vice president—chartering, only requires him to spend a majority of his business time in managing our operations. Mr. Miller currently provides services to entities that own and operate two Jones Act barges that have been transporting caustic soda and calcium chloride under contracts with third parties, and are permitted to acquire and operate additional tank barges of less than 15,000 deadweight tons under specified circumstances for the transportation of chemical products other than petroleum or petroleum products. Mr. Miller may face conflicts regarding the allocation of his time between our business and this barge business. If Mr. Miller were to spend less time in managing our business and affairs than he does currently, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, certain members of our management expect to devote a significant portion of their business time overseeing the construction of the new vessels by the Joint Venture. This will reduce the amount of time they have to spend on our business. To the extent that such individuals devote time to the Joint Venture, they will not be able to devote such time to us, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs and any new attacks could disrupt our business. Heightened awareness of security needs after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 have caused the U.S. Coast Guard, the International Maritime Organization and the states and local ports to adopt heightened security procedures relating to ports and vessels. Complying with these procedures, as well as the implementation of security plans for our vessels required by the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, have increased our costs of security. Any future terrorist attacks could disrupt harbor operations in the ports in which we operate, lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operating costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil, petrochemical and commodity chemical products to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil, petrochemical and commodity chemical products to be shipped by us could entitle our customers to terminate the charters for our vessels, which would harm our cash flow and our business, which would disrupt our operations and result in lost revenue. The long-term impact that terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks may have on the petroleum industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of petroleum supplies and markets, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. 42 Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could affect our ability to raise capital. Changes in international trade agreements could affect our ability to provide marine transportation services at competitive rates. Currently, vessel trade or marine transportation between two ports in the United States, generally known as maritime cabotage or coastwise trade, is subject to U.S. laws, including the Jones Act, that restrict maritime cabotage to U.S. flag vessels qualified to engage in U.S. coastwise trade. Additionally, the Jones Act restrictions on the provision of maritime cabotage services are subject to certain exceptions under certain international trade agreements, including the General Agreement on Trade in Services and the North American Free Trade Agreement. If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise altered, the transportation of maritime cargo between U.S. ports could be opened to foreign-flag or foreign-manufactured vessels. Because foreign vessels may have lower construction costs and operate at significantly lower costs than we do in U.S. markets, this could significantly increase competition in the coastwise trade, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner or unitholder. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity will be made by its sole owner, United States Shipping Master LLC, and not by the board of directors of our general partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment of the partnership agreement; • provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in “good faith,” meaning that it reasonably believed that the decision is in our best interests; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may not be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; • provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the general partner or its conflicts committee acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption; and • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence. The Plan contemplates that each of our current and former officers and directors will be given a full release from all claims arising before the effective date of the Plan other than claims based upon willful misconduct, intentional fraud, or criminal conduct as determined by a final order entered by a court of competent jurisdiction. 43 Our partnership agreement currently limits, and our new organizational documents will limit, the ownership of our equity securities by individuals or entities that are not U.S. citizens. This restriction could limit the liquidity of our common units. In order to ensure compliance with Jones Act citizenship requirements, the board of directors of our general partner has adopted a requirement that at least 76% of our partnership interests must be held by U.S. citizens. Our new organizational documents will require that at least 77% of our common stock must be held by U.S. citizens. These requirements may have an adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of our equity securities, because holders will be unable to sell equity securities to non-U.S. citizens. Any purported transfer of equity securities in violation of these provisions will be ineffective to transfer the equity securities or any voting, dividend or other rights in respect of the equity securities. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under some circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. We may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Purchasers of units who become limited partners are liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the purchaser at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected. If a unitholder sells his common units, that unitholder will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the unitholder’s tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions in excess of the total net taxable income the unitholder was allocated, which decreased the unitholder’s tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the common unit is sold at a price greater than the unitholder’s tax basis in that common unit, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than the unitholder’s original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to unitholders. Should the IRS successfully contest some positions we take, unitholders could recognize more gain on the sale of common units than would be the case under those positions, without the benefit of decreased income in prior years for which the statute of limitations has expired. In addition, if unitholders sell their common units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Effective January 1, 2009, the Partnership has elected to be treated as a corporation which may impact the tax treatment of the gain or loss of units sold subsequent to this election. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 