ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 2 PROPERTIES ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES ITEM 9B OTHER INFORMATION PART III ITEM 10 DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT ITEM 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ITEM 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS ITEM 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS ITEM 14 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES PART IV ITEM 15 EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 2 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements included in this report which are not historical facts (including statements concerning plans and objectives of management for future operations or economic performance, or assumptions related thereto) are forward-looking statements. In addition, we may from time to time make other oral or written statements which are also forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements appear in a number of places and include statements with respect to, among other things: • forecasts of our ability to make cash distributions on the units; • planned capital expenditures and availability of capital resources to fund capital expenditures; • future supply of, and demand for, refined petroleum products; • potential reductions in the supply of tank vessels due to restrictions set forth by the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA 90”); • increases in domestic refined petroleum product consumption; • the likelihood of a repeal of, or a delay in the phase-out requirements for, single-hull vessels mandated by OPA 90; • our ability to maintain long-term relationships with major oil and chemical companies; • the absence of disputes with our customers; • our ability to maximize the use of our vessels; • expected financial flexibility to pursue acquisitions and other expansion opportunities; • our expected cost of complying with OPA 90 and our ability to finance such costs; • estimated future maintenance capital expenditures; • the absence of future labor disputes or other disturbances; • expected demand in the domestic tank vessel market in general and the demand for our tank vessels in particular; • future consolidation in the domestic tank vessel industry; • customers’ increasing emphasis on environmental and safety concerns; • continued outsourcing of non-strategic functions, such as domestic tank vessel operations, by companies in the oil and chemical industries; • our future financial condition or results of operations and our future revenues and expenses; and • our business strategy and other plans and objectives for future operations. These forward-looking statements are made based upon management’s current plans, expectations, estimates, assumptions and beliefs concerning future events impacting us and therefore involve a number of risks and uncertainties. We caution that forward-looking statements are not guarantees and that actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results of operations or our actual financial condition to differ include, but are not necessarily limited to: • insufficient cash from operations; • a decline in demand for refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products; • a decline in demand for tank vessel capacity; • intense competition in the domestic tank vessel industry; • the occurrence of marine accidents or other hazards; • the loss of any of our largest customers; • fluctuations in voyage charter rates; • delays or cost overruns in the construction of new vessels or the retrofitting or modification of older vessels; • increases in interest rates; • changes in international trade agreements; • failure to comply with the Jones Act; • modification or elimination of the Jones Act; and • adverse developments in our marine transportation business. Please read Risk Factors in Item 1A of this report for a discussion of the factors that could cause our actual results of operations or our actual financial condition to differ from our expectations. 3 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Our Partnership We are a leading provider of long-haul marine transportation services, principally for refined petroleum products, in the U.S. domestic “coastwise” trade. We are also involved in the coastwise transportation of petrochemical and commodity chemical products. Marine transportation is a vital link in the distribution of refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products in the United States. Our fleet consists of ten tank vessels: six integrated tug barge units, or ITBs; one product tanker; and three chemical parcel tankers. Our primary customers are major oil and chemical companies. A significant portion of our fleet capacity is currently committed to these companies pursuant to contracts with initial terms of one year or more, which provides us with a relatively predictable level of cash flow. We do not assume ownership of any of the products that we transport on our vessels. Our market is largely insulated from direct foreign competition because the Merchant Marine Act of 1920, commonly referred to as the Jones Act, restricts U.S. point-to-point maritime shipping to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the United States, at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens and manned by U.S. crews. All of our vessels are qualified to transport cargo between U.S. ports under the Jones Act. We began operations in September 2002 when we acquired our six ITBs from a division of Amerada Hess that was managed by several executive officers of our general partner. Our six ITBs primarily transport clean refined petroleum products, such as gasoline, diesel fuel, heating oil, jet fuel and lubricants, from refineries and storage facilities to a variety of destinations, including other refineries and distribution terminals. Three of our ITBs are currently operating under time charters, two are currently operating in the spot market, and one is operating on a consecutive voyage charter. Regardless of our contract rates and rates in the spot market, we are assured specified minimum charter rates for our ITBs through September 13, 2007, subject to certain limited exceptions, pursuant to a support agreement we entered into with Hess in connection with our acquisition of the six ITBs. We acquired the first two of our parcel tankers, the Chemical Pioneer and the Charleston, in May 2003 and April 2004, respectively. These tankers primarily transport specialty refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products, such as lubricants, paraxylene, caustic soda and glycols, from refineries and petrochemical manufacturing facilities to other manufacturing facilities or distribution terminals. We have contracts with Dow Chemical, ExxonMobil, Koch Industries, Lyondell Chemical and Shell with specified minimum volumes that will, in aggregate, account for approximately 74% of the anticipated usable capacity of the Charleston through July 2007 and 75% of the anticipated usable capacity of the Chemical Pioneer through February 2007. In addition, these customers are required to ship on our parcel tankers any additional volumes of these products shipped to the ports specified in the contracts. As a result, we expect these companies will utilize substantially all of the non-committed capacity of these vessels during those periods. In September 2005, we acquired the Houston, formerly the Gus W. Darnell, from the Wilmington Trust Company. The vessel is a Jones Act coastwise double hulled product tanker, built in 1985. In December 2005, we signed a multi-year time charter for the vessel with Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc. through mid-2011. The vessel will be trading in clean petroleum products in the coastwise Jones Act trade. Since it entered service on October 13, 2005, the vessel has operated in the spot market and will continue to do so until its multi-year time charter with Morgan Stanley, which will account for 100% of the usable capacity of the Houston, begins in mid-2006. In November 2005, we acquired the Sea Venture, a double-bottomed chemical parcel tanker. The vessel was re-built in 1983 and is capable of carrying twenty-one different grades of product in independent cargo tanks. The vessel is expected to begin operating in May 2006 after an extensive drydock. At that time, it will be put in service covering the chemical contracts of our first ATB under construction through the projected delivery of the ATB in December 2006. In 2007, we expect that the vessel will continue trading in chemical and/or petroleum products for the Partnership. In August 2004, we entered into a contract with Southern New England Shipyard Company (“SENESCO”) to build an articulated tug barge (“ATB”) at a price of $45.4 million to be delivered in early 2006. In November 2005, SENESCO indicated that they were not able to complete the first ATB on the contract terms due to infrastructure problems and production line issues, and that the completion of the barge would be delayed. In November 2005, we entered into a revised agreement with SENESCO providing for completion of the ATB at another facility that SENESCO will operate. The total cost of completion of the ATB pursuant to the revised agreement is currently expected to be approximately $53.4 million with a contracted delivery date 4 of December 2006. SENESCO has indicated that it is experiencing cost overruns and further delays in completing the ATB. The revised agreement provides for substantial penalties for late delivery of the ATB. There is risk that the cost of the ATB could be higher and that the ATB may not be completed in a timely manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. On February 16, 2006, we entered into a contract with Manitowoc Marine Group (“MMG”) for the construction of two barges, which are specified to have a carrying capacity of approximately 160,000 barrels at 98% of capacity. The contract with MMG includes options to construct two additional barges. On the same date, we entered into a contract for the construction of two tugs with Eastern Shipbuilding Group, Inc. (“Eastern”), which will be joined with the barges to complete the two ATB units. The contract with Eastern also includes options to construct and deliver up to four additional ATB tugs on the basis that each such option shall cover an order for two tugs. The total construction cost for the two ATBs is anticipated to be approximately $130 million, or $65 million per unit. We intend to finance the construction with borrowings under our credit facility and operating cash. Additionally, we intend to obtain additional debt financing facilities, as necessary, to cover the costs of this project. We expect the two ATBs will be completed in August 2008 and November 2008, and we have options to build another two ATBs at a cost per unit of approximately $66 million. The options for the tugs must be exercised by August 2006 and February 2007, and the options for the barges must be exercised by April 2006 and June 2006. Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code provides that publicly traded partnerships will, as a general rule, be taxed as corporations. However, an exception, referred to as the “Qualifying Income Exception,” exists with respect to publicly traded partnerships that generates 90% or more of their gross income for every taxable year from “qualifying income.” Qualifying income includes income and gains derived from the transportation, storage and processing of crude oil, natural gas and products thereof. Other types of qualifying income include interest (other than from a financial business), dividends, gains from the sale of real property and gains from the sale or other disposition of capital assets held for the production of income that otherwise constitutes qualifying income. The Charleston is currently and is expected to continue to transport specialty refined petroleum products and related products that generally generate qualifying income for federal income tax purposes. The Sea Venture, when it enters operational service in mid-2006, may transport either specialty refined petroleum products and related products that generally generate qualifying income for federal income tax purposes or chemical products that generally generate non-qualifying income. We are operating the Chemical Pioneer in a corporate subsidiary because it primarily will conduct operations that do not generate qualifying income. Dividends received from our corporate subsidiary will constitute qualifying income. We estimate that less than 3% of our current income is not qualifying income; however, this estimate could change from time to time. Business Strategies Our primary business objective is to increase our distributable cash flow per unit by executing the following strategies: • Operate our fleet safely and efficiently to meet the most stringent customer vetting and industry standards and remain a preferred supplier to major oil and chemical companies. Major oil and chemical companies place particular emphasis on strong environmental and safety records and efficient operations. We believe we are a high quality, cost-efficient and reliable tank vessel operator. We intend to continue improving our operational safety and efficiency through the use of new technology and comprehensive training programs for new and existing employees. We also intend to minimize off-hire time and costs by emphasizing efficient scheduling and timely completion of planned and preventative maintenance both on-shore and at sea. This maintenance, combined with the twin redundant engine configuration on our ITBs, has allowed us to average a very low rate of unscheduled off-hire per ITB per year over the past five years. We intend to continue building on our reputation for maintaining high standards of performance, reliability and safety, which we believe has enabled us to attract highly-selective customers. • Contract a high proportion of our capacity with major oil and chemical companies for periods of one year or more in an effort to maintain steady cash flows from creditworthy customers through business cycles, while maintaining some flexibility to respond to changing market conditions. Vessels operating on time charters or contracts of affreightment generally provide more predictable cash flow, while vessels operating under spot charters may generate increased profit margins during periods of increasing charter rates. We intend to pursue a strategy of emphasizing longer-term contracts, while preserving operational flexibility to take advantage of changing market conditions. Four of our six ITBs are operating under contracts that have been in effect, or renewed, for at least one year. Our remaining two ITBs are currently operating in the spot market. However, the Hess support agreement effectively provides us with minimum fixed rates for our six ITBs through September 13, 2007, subject to certain limited exceptions. Our product tanker, Houston, has operated in the spot market since entering service in October 2005 and will begin a multi-year time charter in mid 2006. With respect to two of our parcel tankers, the Chemical Pioneer and the Charleston, we have contracts of affreightment that will, in aggregate, account for approximately 75% of the anticipated usable capacity of one vessel through February 2007 and 74% of the anticipated usable capacity of the other vessel through July 2007. In addition, these contracts generally require the customer to ship excess volume of the products covered by the contract on the routes covered by the contract on our parcel tankers. As a result, we expect these customers will account for substantially all of the non-committed capacity of these vessels during those periods. Our third parcel tanker, the Sea Venture, will cover the chemical contracts of our first ATB under construction through its delivery, scheduled for December 2006, at which point it will trade in chemical and/or petroleum products. • Expand our fleet and address OPA 90 phase-out requirements through accretive strategic acquisitions and construction of new vessels. We have grown successfully in the past through strategic acquisitions. In September 2002 we acquired our six ITBs from Hess, and acquired our Chemical Pioneer and Charleston parcel tankers in May 2003 and April 2004, respectively. In August 2004, we contracted for the construction of an ATB, the 5 delivery of which is currently scheduled for late 2006, although it may not be delivered until 2007. In 2005 we made two vessel acquisitions, the Houston and the Sea Venture, in September and November, respectively. In February 2006, we contracted for the construction of two additional ATBs, with anticipated delivery in August 2008 and November 2008, with options for additional units. We expect to continue this strategy by consistently surveying the marketplace to identify and pursue acquisitions, as well as newbuilding opportunities, that expand the services and products we offer or that expand our geographic presence. While we will be required to make capital expenditures either to bring our ITBs in compliance with OPA 90 or replace them with newbuilds, we also plan to continue our strategy of vessel acquisitions. Principal Executive Offices Our principal executive offices are located at 399 Thornall Street, 8th Floor, Edison, New Jersey 08837, and our phone number is (732) 635-1500. We also lease additional office space in New York, NY for use by our chairman and certain other personnel. OVERVIEW OF OUR INDUSTRY Introduction We participate in the U.S. flag coastwise long-haul marine transportation of refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products. Coastwise marine transportation of bulk liquids is primarily performed by tank vessels, including deep-sea self propelled vessels, integrated tug barges, or ITBs, articulated tug barges, or ATBs, and unmanned tank barges. U.S. flag tank vessels generally transport products between ports in the continental United States (including through the Panama Canal) or between mainland ports and Puerto Rico, Alaska or Hawaii, although these vessels may at times transport products internationally. Tank vessels provide a vital link in the transportation of these products in the United States. Tank vessels transport refined petroleum products, such as gasoline, jet fuel, diesel fuel and feedstocks, from refineries to terminals and facilities engaged in further processing, often in full vessel loads. Tank vessels with a relatively high number of tank segregations, called parcel tankers, transport smaller cargoes of specialty refined petroleum, petrochemicals and commodity chemicals, such as lubricants, styrene, glycols, paraxylene, caustic soda and alcohols, in a variety of coastwise distributive and balancing movements. The U.S. flag coastwise marine transportation industry operates under the Jones Act (Merchant Marine Act of 1920), a set of Federal statutes that mandate that vessels engaged in trade between U.S. ports must: • operate under the U.S. flag; • be built in the United States; • be at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens; and • be manned by a U.S. crew. One of the primary purposes of the Jones Act is to maintain a fleet of vessels eligible for charter to the U.S. government for national defense requirements. Methods of Transporting Refined Petroleum, Petrochemical and Commodity Chemical Products Refined petroleum products are transported by pipelines, marine transportation, truck and railroads. Pipelines are the most efficient mode of transportation for long-haul movement of refined petroleum products, followed by tank vessels. Rail and truck transportation of these products are more cost-effective only over short distances and, therefore, they account for only a small percentage of total ton miles transported. The carrying capacity of a 30,000 deadweight ton (dwt) tank vessel, which can transport approximately 225,000 barrels of refined petroleum products, is equivalent to approximately 378 average-size rail tank cars and approximately 945 average-size tractor trailer tank trucks. Marine transportation provides a vital link between a number of major refined petroleum product producing and consuming regions of the United States. There are no pipelines connecting the major refining areas in the Pacific Northwest and the Texas and Louisiana region with consumption markets in California, or connecting the major refining areas in the Texas and Louisiana region to the consuming areas in Florida. The 6 Northeastern United States, a significant consuming region, is served by capacity-constrained pipelines connecting with the refining areas in Texas and Louisiana. Petrochemical and commodity chemical products are typically produced and moved in volumes considerably smaller than the capacity of an entire tank vessel. As pipelines cannot economically transport most petrochemical and commodity chemical products, most of these products are transported by rail, as the smaller unit sizes of railcars are conducive to typical shipment sizes. Parcel tankers, with multiple cargo compartments and cargo handling systems, can cost-effectively transport these products because they can accommodate the small shipment sizes without having a portion of the vessel capacity unfilled. Parcel tankers generally enjoy significant cost advantages to rail transportation between plants or facilities having access to deep sea marine terminals. Industry Trends We believe the following industry trends, which are causing charter rates to rise and companies to seek longer term charters, create a positive outlook for our business: Demand for tank vessels continues to be strong. This strong demand results principally from rising consumption of refined petroleum products and the importance of marine transportation in the distribution of refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products. A major factor in determining tank vessel demand is domestic refined petroleum product consumption, which continues to rise. The Energy Information Administration of the Department of Energy projects that retail demand for refined petroleum products in the United States will increase between 2004 and 2030 at a compounded annual growth rate of 1.1%. Although pipelines are a key component in the distribution chain, they do not reach all markets, may lack specific capacity to meet increasing demand and are not capable of transporting all refined petroleum products or economically transporting most chemical products. According to the Association of Oil Pipe Lines, approximately 28% of all domestic refined petroleum product transportation was by water in 2004, making waterborne transportation the second-most used mode of transportation for refined petroleum products after pipelines. Many areas along the U.S. coast have access to refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products only by marine transportation. The domestic supply of tank vessels competing with us is decreasing. This decrease is due to: OPA 90, which mandates the phase-out of certain non-double-hulled tank vessels at varying times by January 1, 2015; and the Jones Act, which restricts the supply of new vessels by requiring that all vessels participating in the coastwise trade be constructed in the United States. As a result of OPA 90, the total barrel-carrying capacity of existing domestic tank vessels transporting refined petroleum products is projected to decline significantly from its current levels in the absence of newbuildings or retrofittings of existing tank vessels. Given the intensive capital requirements to construct new Jones Act tank vessels in U.S. shipyards for use in the coastwise trade and the limited number of U.S. shipyards willing and able to construct tank vessels, we believe that not all the domestic tank vessels will be replaced by newbuildings, providing current significant opportunities to existing owners of high quality vessels. We also believe that certain major oil companies prefer to place long-term charters on newly-built double-hull tankers and are less interested in chartering tank vessels that have been retrofitted with double-hulls. However, we believe that other oil companies and traders would be willing to accept high quality retrofitted tankers. Due to the expected reduction in the availability of domestic tank vessels due to OPA 90, the major oil and chemical companies are increasingly interested in entering into long-term charter agreements in order to ensure shipping capacity for their products. Major oil and chemical companies are increasingly selective in their choice of tank vessel operators. These companies place particular emphasis on strong environmental and safety records, as well as operating performance. We believe that the increasingly stringent U.S. regulatory environment, the emphasis on quality and environmental protection and increasingly demanding customer vetting standards and procedures governing eligibility of vessels to engage in the coastwise trade for, and enter terminal facilities of, these customers, will accelerate the obsolescence of older, lower quality tank vessels and provide a competitive advantage to companies like us that operate high-quality tank vessels. The domestic tank vessel industry is consolidating. Partly as a result of OPA 90 and the corresponding capital requirements to replace or retrofit existing tank vessel fleets, we believe many smaller, independent tank barge companies may find it increasingly difficult to compete profitably. The continuation of this trend would provide us with opportunities both to acquire additional assets and add customers. 7 Our Vessels Integrated Tug Barge Unit Fleet In September 2002, we acquired a fleet of six refined petroleum product ITBs built in the United States in the 1980s and qualified for the coastwise trade. ITBs integrate a dedicated tugboat (which provides propulsion) into a cargo carrying barge using a coupling system that connects the two vessels. The rigid connection between the vessels enables the tug barge combination to be handled as though it were a single vessel, with better handling and maneuverability than a conventional tug and barge combination. Unlike self-propelled tankers, ITBs are designed to allow the aft section, containing the more complex controls and machinery, to be separated from the forebody cargo area. The tug and barge sections are locked together and are only separated during scheduled drydockings every five years. ITBs provide a major cost advantage compared to a tanker because ITBs require fewer crew members than tankers. Additionally, ITBs can operate in sea and weather conditions that conventional tug-barge combinations cannot. All six ITBs are “sister vessels” of the same design and built to the same specifications. As sister vessels, we can operate them more efficiently because we can use common procedures with all the ITBs, while inventory management can be centralized and crews and officers can be interchanged among vessels. In addition, sister vessels allow us to substitute vessels in service and service the same contract with different vessels. The following table sets forth the specifications and highlights for our six ITBs: Deadweight capacity(1) 48,000 dwt/360,000 bbls Service speed 14.0 knots Full load draft (summer) 40.563 feet Hull structure Double-bottom Propulsion type 2x DeLaval Medium Speed Diesel Fuel consumption (at sea) 42 long tons of IFO 180 CST/day Number of cargo segregations 7 different types of refined products(2) Classification American Bureau of Shipping A1 (all six vessels)(3) (1) A vessel’s cargo capacity is less than its deadweight capacity as a result of the fuel it carries for its operation. A vessel’s cargo capacity may be further reduced to the extent draft clearance limits the ability of a vessel to enter or leave port with a full load. (2) One ITB has 10 cargo segregations. (3) The American Bureau of Shipping, or ABS, is an independent classification society that inspects the hull and machinery of commercial ships to assess compliance with minimum criteria as set by U.S. and international regulations. The classification of “A1” is ABS’ highest hull structure classification. Double-bottom ship configurations are superior to single-hull configuration for the prevention of oil spills in the event of a grounding. As a result, charterers prefer double-bottom ships to conventional single-hull ships. Because the ITBs have two independent propulsion plants and are equipped with dual propellers and rudders, the risk of mechanical failure and unscheduled downtime for this fleet is lessened. We can perform engine maintenance at sea while the vessel is operating on the other engine. The following table summarizes information about our ITBs: Vessel Current Charter Type Month/Year Built OPA 90 Retrofit/ Phase-out Date JACKSONVILLE Spot May 1982 May 2012 GROTON Time June 1982 June 2012 NEW YORK Spot February 1983 February 2013 BALTIMORE Time May 1983 May 2013 PHILADELPHIA Consecutive Voyage Charter June 1984 June 2014 MOBILE Time August 1984 August 2014 Four of our ITBs are currently operating under contracts with Hess, Shell and BP. The Hess contract expires in December 2006, the Shell contract expires in January 2008 and the BP contracts expire in December 2007. The remaining two 8 ITBs are currently operating in the spot market under voyage charters; however, regardless of rates in the spot market, we are assured specified minimum rates for these vessels through September 13, 2007 under the Hess support agreement, subject to certain limited exceptions. Although our ITBs principally transport refined petroleum products, we will on occasion transport crude oil if requested by a customer. The ITBs are required by both domestic (United States Coast Guard) and international (International Maritime Organization) regulatory bodies to be overhauled for major repair and maintenance every five years. During a drydocking an ITB is removed from service (typically for 50-60 days) and major repair and maintenance work is carried out. We currently estimate typical drydock costs for our ITBs will be approximately $6.0 million per vessel for work occurring in U.S. shipyards. We can also drydock the ITBs in foreign shipyards, where the drydocking costs are lower. However, if we choose to drydock an ITB in a foreign shipyard, the ITB may be off-hire, and therefore not earning any revenue, for a longer period of time as it travels to and from the foreign shipyard if we cannot find a cargo to transport during that voyage. Drydocking costs are considered maintenance capital expenditures for financial statement purposes but are generally expensed for tax purposes to the extent that the expenditures relate to repairs and maintenance. In addition to drydocking each ITB every five years, we are required to conduct a mid-period underwater survey in lieu of drydocking the ITB for inspection. An underwater survey only requires an ITB to be removed from service for three to five days. The following table sets forth information regarding the drydocking of our ITBs: Vessel Last Drydock Costs (in thousands) Days Off-Hire Next Scheduled Drydock Estimated Days Off-Hire (4) JACKSONVILLE(1) 2005 $6,022 70 2010 N/S GROTON(2) 2001 2,449 90 2Q 2006 50 NEW YORK(3) 2005 6,052 62 2010 N/S BALTIMORE 2002 5,888 51 2007 N/S PHILADELPHIA 2002 4,705 64 2007 N/S MOBILE 2001 3,743 49 4Q 2006 50 (1) Delays in shipyard due to labor shortages as a result of Hurricane Katrina. (2) Drydocked in China in 2001; includes transit time to and from shipyard. (3) Drydocked in Chile; includes transit time to and from shipyard. (4) N/S – Not scheduled We are currently exploring several “end-of-life” options for our ITBs as they reach their OPA 90 phase-out dates, including retrofitting our ITBs with an internal double-hull or constructing new vessels. A retrofit would involve installing double-sides internally in the existing forebody, rearranging ballast tanks and protectively coating all cargo and ballast tank structural steel .This retrofit will result in a fully conforming double-hull vessel since the existing double-bottom of the ITB is fully conforming; however, the capacity of the vessel will decrease by approximately 5%. We estimate the current cost of this retrofit to be approximately $25 million per vessel, and will require an off-hire period of approximately 180 days. Certain of our customers have indicated that they are not currently interested in chartering a retrofitted ITB. We estimate the current cost of constructing a series of new product tank vessels would average approximately $120 million each. We have determined that at this time constructing new double-hulled forebodies for our ITBs is not economically feasible. Hess Support Agreement. In connection with our purchase of the six ITBs from Hess, we entered into a support agreement with Hess that provides, among other things: • We will use our commercially reasonable efforts to charter out the ITBs and maximize the amount of time that the ITBs are employed, either on a time charter or spot charter basis; • If we propose to enter into a time charter or spot charter for an ITB, we must notify Hess in advance, and Hess has a right to charter such ITB on the terms proposed with such third party; • If we expect that an ITB will not be chartered for a period in excess of five consecutive days (other than for downtime, as described below), Hess has the right to propose, and we are required to accept, a spot charter for itself or a third party on commercially reasonable terms; • If the contracted rate (the “Negotiated Rate”) for a spot charter or time charter of an ITB is less than the then effective charter rate for such ITB specified in the support agreement (the “Support Rate”), Hess is obligated to 9 pay us the difference between the Support Rate and the Negotiated Rate. However, Hess is not obligated to compensate us for any downtime, which is defined as: • the ITB not being in service due to drydock or casualty; • the charterer not being required to pay under the charter due to the ITB being off-hire; or • the ITB not being in service because it has been finally determined in arbitration that we did not use commercially reasonable efforts to charter out such ITB; • If the Negotiated Rate for an ITB exceeds the Support Rate, we must pay the excess to Hess to reimburse Hess for any payments made to us by Hess under the support agreement and, once Hess has been fully reimbursed for all payments made under the support agreement, we must pay Hess 50% of any remaining excess. Our obligation to reimburse Hess for these payments terminates upon termination of the support agreement; • If we enter into a time charter for an ITB with a charterer having a senior unsecured long-term debt credit rating by Moody’s Investor Services of Baa2 or better and a senior unsecured debt credit rating by Standard & Poor’s of BBB or better, and (1) the Negotiated Rate for such charter equals or exceeds the then applicable Support Rate for the ITB and (2) the charterer consents to the assignment of such charter to our lenders as security for our debt, then Hess’ payment obligation with respect to that ITB is suspended for the contracted term of the charter, whether or not the charterer is making payments to us or the charter is still in effect; • Neither we nor Hess can withhold or defer any payment due under the support agreement, although we each have limited set-off rights in respect of indemnification payments due from the other under the agreement pursuant to which we purchased the six ITBs and we can defer (with interest at the prime rate) any payment due to Hess under the support agreement if such payments would cause us to be in default under our senior credit facility; • Neither we nor Hess can terminate the support agreement unilaterally; • The support agreement will terminate on September 13, 2007, or earlier if: • With respect to any individual ITB, the date on which • we sell such ITB, • such ITB ceases to be certified for use in United States coastwise trade, or • there is an actual, constructive, compromised or agreed total loss of such ITB; and • With respect to all ITBs, upon the occurrence of any one of the following events (each such event a “Sale of the Business”) that results in equity holders of United States Shipping Master LLC ceasing to own, directly or indirectly, at least 50% of the surviving entity (or entities) that hold(s) title to the ITBs: • the sale of all or substantially all of our ITBs and related assets; • the sale of all the issued and outstanding securities of our subsidiary that owns the ITBs and related assets; and • the merger or consolidation of our subsidiary that owns the ITBs and related assets; • If during the term of the support agreement we sell one or more ITBs, other than in a Sale of the Business, or there is an actual, constructive, compromised or agreed total loss of one or more ITBs, we must use all proceeds (including insurance proceeds) in excess of required debt payments, taxes and out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with such sale or insurance recovery to reimburse Hess for all payments made by it under the support agreement and not previously reimbursed in the case of a sale and one-sixth of such payments in the case of an actual, constructive, compromised or total loss of the ITB. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, five ITBs were covered. For the year ended December 31, 2003, four ITBs were covered. One ITB is under contract with Hess at a charter rate less than the support rate; this vessel will be covered by the support agreement upon any termination of that contract. 10 Product Tanker Fleet In September 2005, we acquired the Houston, a U.S. flagged, double-hulled product tanker qualified to trade in the Jones Act. The vessel, being double-hulled, has no OPA 90 phase-out date. The vessel is capable of carrying approximately 240,000 barrels of petroleum products. The vessel’s last drydock occurred in September 2005 at a cost of $3.1 million and its next drydock is required in 2008. The Houston, formerly the Gus W. Darnell, was built for use by the Military Sealift Command of the U.S. Navy as part of a fleet of six vessels, which have been used primarily to deliver jet fuel to various locations around the world. The following table sets forth the specifications and highlights for our product tanker: Deadweight Capacity(1) 30,610 dwt / 240,000 bbl Service Speed 16 knots Full load draft (summer) 36 feet Hull Structure Double-hull Propulsion Type Single slow speed diesel burning heavy fuel (IFO 380) Fuel Consumption (at sea) 36 tons/day Number of Cargo Segregations 7 Classification American Bureau of Shipping (ABS) Cap II (1) A vessel’s cargo capacity is less than its deadweight capacity as a result of the fuel it carries for its operations. In December 2005, we signed a multi-year time charter for the vessel with Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc. through mid-2011. The vessel will be trading in clean petroleum products in the coastwise Jones Act trade. Since it entered service on October 13, 2005, the vessel has operated in the spot market and will continue to do so until its multi-year time charter begins in mid-2006. Parcel Tanker Fleet Our parcel tankers carry specialty refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products primarily from refineries and chemical manufacturing plants and storage tank facilities along the coast of the U.S. Gulf of Mexico to industrial users in and around East Coast ports. The specialty refined petroleum products transported on our parcel tankers are generally not the types of refined petroleum products transported by our ITBs or our product tanker, but are products shipped in smaller volumes and used primarily in the manufacture of other products. Petrochemical and commodity chemical products transported by our parcel tankers consist primarily of paraxylene, caustic soda, alcohol, chlorinated solvents, alkylates, toluene and ethylene glycol. Because of the smaller cargo lot size requirements, parcel tankers are designed with many small cargo tanks. Unlike conventional tankers, parcel tankers are typically designed with one dedicated cargo pump, and associated piping system, for each tank, in order to eliminate cargo contamination. Some of the specialty refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products transported must be carried in vessels with specially coated or stainless steel cargo tanks, as many of these cargos are very sensitive to contamination and require special cargo handling equipment. We currently own three parcel tankers: the Chemical Pioneer, which we acquired from Dow Chemical in May 2003, the Charleston, which we acquired from ExxonMobil in April 2004, and the Sea Venture, which we acquired from Marine Transport Corporation, in November 2005. The following table sets forth the specifications and highlights of our parcel tankers: 11 CHARLESTON CHEMICAL PIONEER SEA VENTURE Deadweight capacity(1) 48,000 dwt 35,000 dwt 19,000 dwt Service speed 16.0 knots 16.0 knots 14.8 knots Full load draft (summer) 42.0 feet 35.656 feet 29.2125 feet Hull structure Double-bottom Double-hull Double-bottom (non-OPA 90 compliant) Propulsion type Slow-speed diesel Steam turbine Slow-speed diesel Fuel consumption (at sea) 52 MT/Day (IFO 180) 75 MT/Day (IFO 380) 19.75 MT/Day (IFO 380) Number of cargo segregations 43 different types of products 48 different types of products 21 different types of products Classification(2) American Bureau of Shipping A1 American Bureau of Shipping A1 American Bureau of Shipping A1 Condition Assessment(3) CAP I CAP II Condition Assessment to be determined (4) (1) A vessel’s cargo capacity is less than its deadweight capacity as a result of the fuel it carries for its operation. A vessel’s cargo capacity may be further reduced to the extent draft clearance limits the ability of a vessel to enter or leave port with a full load. (2) The classification of “A1” is ABS’ highest hull structure classification. (3) ABS also provides a condition assessment rating system; a CAP I rating is equivalent to a new build steel structure and a CAP II rating is equivalent to a five year old ship. (4) The Sea Venture is currently undergoing an extensive drydock, which is anticipated to cost approximately $8.9 million and to be completed in May 2006. The Chemical Pioneer, the Charleston and the Sea Venture are among the last independently owned carriers scheduled to be retired under OPA 90, with phase-out dates in 2013. Although the Chemical Pioneer is double-hulled, it is not OPA 90 compliant; however, we believe that a minor modification will bring the Chemical Pioneer into compliance with OPA 90. The Charleston and the Sea Venture are not OPA 90 compliant; however, we believe we will be able to obtain a waiver allowing us to carry refined petroleum products in the Charleston’s center tanks and non-petroleum-based products in the other tanks. Alternatively, since tankers carrying products or chemicals not regulated by OPA 90 (i.e., non-petroleum-based) are not subject to the mandated OPA 90 phase-out dates and, therefore, have extended trading lives, we may elect to change the operation of the parcel tankers to avoid having to retrofit them or phase them out. However, this change could materially adversely affect their value to us. Both the Chemical Pioneer and the Charleston have over 40 cargo segregations and the Sea Venture has 21cargo segregations, which are configured, strengthened and coated to handle various sized parcels of a wide variety of petroleum products and industrial chemicals, giving them the ability to handle a broader range of specialty refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products than other chemical-capable product carriers. Many of the petroleum and chemical products we transport in our parcel tankers are hazardous substances and, therefore, require highly qualified management and crew to operate the vessel safely. We currently have contracts of affreightment with Dow Chemical, ExxonMobil, Koch Industries, Lyondell Chemical and Shell with specified minimum cargo requirements that will, in aggregate, account for approximately 74% of the anticipated usable capacity of the Charleston through July 2007 and 75% of the anticipated usable capacity of the Chemical Pioneer through February 2007. In addition, these contracts generally require the customer to ship excess volume of the products covered by the contract on the routes covered by the contract on our parcel tankers. As a result, we expect these companies will account for substantially all of the non-committed capacity of these vessels during those periods. The Sea Venture will initially service the charters that were to be serviced by our first ATB until that ATB is delivered, and, in addition, will supplement the Chemical Pioneer in delivering non-petroleum based products. With the future reduction in chemical ship capacity we do not 12 believe that we will encounter a problem in fully utilizing the capacity of the Sea Venture. When we acquired the Charleston from ExxonMobil in May 2004, we agreed to transport cargo for ExxonMobil generally transported by the S/R Wilmington while the vessel was in drydock. We operated under this arrangement from June 2004 through November 2004 and chartered in another vessel on a short-term basis to fulfill our obligations under our charter agreements covering the Charleston. We are obligated to use our best efforts to assist ExxonMobil in covering its cargo transportation requirements that would have been covered by the S/R Wilmington during future drydocks of that vessel. Our parcel tankers are required by both domestic (U.S. Coast Guard) and international (International Maritime Organization) regulatory bodies to be drydocked twice in a five year period. During a drydocking the vessel is removed from service (typically for 35 to 50 days) and major repair and maintenance work is carried out. We currently estimate typical drydock costs to be $3.0 million to $5.0 million per vessel for work occurring in U.S. shipyards. Drydocking costs are considered maintenance capital expenditures for financial statement purposes but are generally expensed for tax purposes to the extent that the expenditures relate to repairs and maintenance. Last Days Next Vessel Drydock Costs Offhire Drydock (in thousands) Charleston (1) 2003 $ 1,500 65 3Q 2006 Chemical Pioneer (2) 2003 $ 12,448 122 2Q 2006 Sea Venture (3) 2006 $ 8,900 (4) 135 (4) 2008 (1) Drydocked in Singapore. (2) Extensive drydock to bring the ship to our operational standards following acquisition. This drydocking substantially improved the operating quality of the ship by, among other things, coating all ballast and void tanks, completely overhauling and upgrading the main propulsion plant, and recoating all deck structures. Also during this drydocking, we conducted extensive work to successfully bring the vessel to CAP II quality. (3) Extensive drydocking is ongoing to bring the ship to our operational standards following acquisition. This drydocking will substantially improve the operating quality of the ship by, among other things, coating most of the ballast and cargo tanks, completing special survey and other structural and mechanical repairs necessary to obtain an ABS CAP II rating. (4) Estimated. Articulated Tug Barge Unit ATBs, similar to ITBs, consist of a tugboat (which provides propulsion) and a cargo carrying barge using a coupling system that connects the two vessels. Unlike the rigid connection found on ITBs, an ATB uses a hinged connection. The ATB’s configuration offers crewing cost advantages similar to those of an ITB. In addition, ATBs offer the additional advantage of substitutability, because the barge and tug may be decoupled. This offers operational and commercial flexibility, allowing the barge unit to be towed by a third party tug in certain situations. In August 2004, we entered into a contract with Southern New England Shipyard Company (“SENESCO”) to build a 19,999 dwt articulated tug barge (“ATB”) for us at a price of $45.4 million to be delivered in early 2006. In November 2005, SENESCO indicated that they were not able to complete the first ATB on the contract terms due to infrastructure problems and production line issues, and that the completion of the barge would be delayed. In November 2005, we entered into a revised agreement with SENESCO providing for completion of the ATB at another facility which SENESCO will operate. The total cost of completion of the ATB pursuant to the revised agreement is currently expected to be approximately $53.4 million with a projected 13 contracted delivery date of December 2006. SENESCO has indicated that it is experiencing cost overruns and further delays in completing the ATB. The revised agreement provides for substantial penalties for late delivery of the ATB. On February 16, 2006, we entered into a contract with Manitowoc Marine Group (“MMG”) for the construction of two barges, which are specified to have a carrying capacity of approximately 160,000 barrels at 98% of capacity. The contract with MMG includes options to construct two additional barges. On the same date, we entered into a contract for the construction of two tugs with Eastern Shipbuilding Group, Inc. (“Eastern”), which will be joined with the barges to complete the two ATB units. The contract with Eastern also includes options to construct and deliver up to four additional ATB tugs on the basis that each such option shall cover an order for two tugs. The total construction price for the two ATBs is anticipated to be approximately $130 million, or $65 million per unit. We estimate that building two additional ATBs will cost approximately $66 million each. We intend to finance the purchase price with borrowings under our credit facility and cash from operations. Additionally, we intend to obtain additional debt financing facilities, as necessary, to cover the costs of this project. The following table sets forth the specifications and highlights for our ATB currently under construction: SENESCO MMG/EASTERN Deadweight capacity(1) 19,999 dwt / 140,000 bbl 19,999 dwt / 156,000 bbl Service speed 13.5 knots 13.5 knots Full load draft (summer) 29”0” 29”0” Hull structure Double-hull Double-hull Propulsion type Twin medium speed diesel burning heavy fuel oil (IFO 180) Twin medium speed diesel burning heavy fuel oil (IFO 180) Fuel consumption (at sea) 38 tons/day 38 tons/day Number of cargo segregations 10 5 Classification Tug: ABS A1 Ocean Service Tug: ABS A1 Ocean Service Barge: ABS A1 Oil and Chemcial Barge: ABS A1 Oil and Chemical (1) A vessel’s cargo capacity is less than its deadweight capacity as a result of the fuel it carries for its operations. We have entered into contracts of affreightment to transport commodity chemical products whose specified minimum volumes will utilize 77% of our SENESCO-built ATB’s anticipated capacity through September 2007 and approximately 67% of our SENESCO-built ATB’s anticipated capacity thereafter through June 2010. In addition, these contracts generally require the customer to ship excess volume of the products covered by the contract on the routes covered by the contract on our SENESCO-built ATB. As a result, we expect these companies will account for substantially all of the non-committed capacity of this vessel during the term of the contract. These contracts, which commence mid-2006, will be covered during 2006 by the Sea Venture until the SENESCO-built ATB is completed. The contracts of affreightment we have for our SENESCO-built ATB cover products that generally do not generate qualifying income for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we anticipate this ATB will be owned by our corporate subsidiary because it primarily will conduct operations that do not generate qualifying income. Our Customers Our three largest customers in 2005, 2004 and 2003 based on gross revenue were BP, Hess and Shell, which, in aggregate, accounted for approximately 65%, 59% and 90% of our consolidated revenues for those periods respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for those periods. See note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of this report for a breakdown of revenues among these customers. Revenues from Hess do not include payments by Hess under the Support Agreement. 14 Preventative Maintenance We have a computerized preventative maintenance program that tracks U.S. Coast Guard and American Bureau of Shipping inspection schedules and establishes a system for the reporting and handling of routine maintenance and repair. Vessel captains submit monthly inspection reports, which are used to note conditions that may require maintenance or repair. Vessel superintendents are responsible for reviewing these reports, inspecting identified discrepancies, assigning a priority classification and generating work orders. Work orders establish job type, assign personnel responsible for the task and record target start and completion dates. Vessel superintendents inspect repairs completed by the crew, supervise outside contractors as needed and conduct quarterly inspections following the same criteria as the captains. Drills and training exercises are conducted in conjunction with these inspections, which are typically more comprehensive in scope. In addition, an operations duty officer is available on a 24-hour basis to handle any operational issues. The operations duty officer is prepared to respond on scene whenever required and is trained in technical repair issues, spill control and emergency response. The American Bureau of Shipping and the U.S. Coast Guard establish drydocking schedules. Prior to sending a vessel to a shipyard, we develop comprehensive work lists to ensure all required maintenance is completed. Repair facilities bid on these work lists, and jobs are awarded based on price and time to complete. Once the vessel is gas-free, a certified marine chemist issues paperwork certifying that no dangerous vapors are present. The vessel proceeds to the shipyard where the vessel superintendent and certain crew members assist in performing the maintenance and repair work. The planned maintenance period is considered complete when all work has been tested to the satisfaction of American Bureau of Shipping or U.S. Coast Guard inspectors or both. Safety General We are committed to operating our vessels in a manner that protects the safety and health of our employees, the general public and the environment. Our primary goal is to minimize the number of safety- and health-related accidents on our vessels and our property. We are focused on avoiding personal injuries and reducing occupational health hazards. We seek to prevent accidents that may cause damage to our personnel, equipment or the environment such as fire, collisions, petroleum spills and groundings of our vessels. In addition, we are committed to reduce overall emissions and waste generation from our operations and to the safe management of associated cargo residues and cleaning wastes. Our policy is to follow all laws and regulations as required, and we are actively participating with government, trade organizations and the public in creating responsible laws, regulations and standards to safeguard the workplace, the community and the environment. Our operations department is responsible for coordinating all facets of our health, safety and training programs. The operations department identifies areas that may require special emphasis, including new initiatives that evolve within the industry. Supervisors are responsible for carrying out and monitoring compliance for all of the safety and health policies on their vessels. Tank Barge Characteristics To protect the environment, today’s tank barge hulls are required not only to be leakproof into the body of water in which they float but also to be vapor-tight to prevent the release of any fumes or vapors into the atmosphere. Our tank barges that carry clean products such as gasoline or naphtha have alarms that indicate when the tank is full (95% of capacity) and when it is overfull (98% of capacity). Each tank barge also has a vapor recovery system that connects the cargo tanks to the shore terminal via pipe and hose to return to the plant the vapors generated while loading. Safety Management Systems We are currently certified under the standards of the International Safety Management, or ISM, system. The ISM standards were promulgated by the International Maritime Organization, or IMO, several years ago and have been adopted through treaty by many IMO member countries, including the United States. Although ISM is not required for coastal tug and barge operations, we have determined that an integrated safety management system, including the ISM standards, will promote safer operations and will provide us with necessary operational flexibility as we continue to grow. We have been awarded ISO 9001 Quality Management System certification as well as ISO 14001 Environmental Management System certification. These standards are part of a series of standards established by the International Organization for Standardization. ISO 9001 is one of 15 a series of quality management system standards, while ISO 14001 is one of a series of standards relating to the environment and its protection. Ship Management, Crewing and Employees We maintain an experienced and highly qualified work force of shore-based and seagoing personnel. As of March 1, 2006, we employed approximately 435 persons, comprised of approximately 35 shore staff and approximately 400 fleet personnel. We have a collective bargaining agreement in place with two maritime unions, the American Maritime Officers union, which covers the 182 officers of our vessels, and the Seafarers’ International Union, which covers all our other seagoing personnel, that expire in 2007. Under the terms of the collective bargaining agreements, we are required to make contributions to pension and other welfare programs managed by the unions. Management believes there are no unfunded pension liabilities under any of these agreements. Our vessel employees are paid on a daily or hourly basis and typically work 60 days on and 60 days off, in the case of officers, and 120 days on and 60 days off, in the case of all other seagoing personnel. Our shore-based personnel are generally salaried and are primarily located at our headquarters in Edison, New Jersey. Our shore staff provides support for all aspects of our fleet and business operations, including sales and scheduling, crewing and human resources functions, compliance and technical management, financial and insurance services. Classification, Inspection and Certification In accordance with standard industry practice, all of our coastwise vessels have been certified as being “in class” by the American Bureau of Shipping. The American Bureau of Shipping is one of several internationally recognized classification societies that inspect vessels at regularly scheduled intervals to ensure compliance with American Bureau of Shipping classification rules and some applicable federal safety regulations. Most insurance underwriters require an “in class” certification by a classification society before they will extend coverage to any vessel. The classification society certifies that the pertinent vessel has been built and maintained in accordance with the rules of the society and complies with applicable rules and regulations of the country of registry of such vessel and the international conventions of which that country is a member. Inspections of our ITBs are conducted by a surveyor of the classification society in three surveys of varying frequency and thoroughness: annual surveys each year, an intermediate survey every two to three years, which is generally conducted through an underwater survey, and a special survey every five years. As part of an intermediate survey, our vessels may be required to be drydocked every 24 to 30 months for inspection of the underwater parts of such vessel and for any necessary repair work related to such inspection. Inspections of our parcel tankers are conducted by a surveyor of the classification society annually as well as when the vessel is drydocked, which must occur twice every five years. Our vessels are inspected at periodic intervals by the U.S. Coast Guard to ensure compliance with applicable safety regulations issued by the U.S. Coast Guard. All of our tank vessels carry Certificates of Inspection issued by the U.S. Coast Guard. Our vessels are also inspected and audited periodically by our customers, in some cases as a precondition to chartering our vessels. We maintain all necessary approvals required for our vessels to operate in their normal trades. We believe that the high quality of our vessels, our crews and our shoreside staff are advantages when competing against other vessel operators for long-term business. Insurance Program We believe that we have arranged for adequate insurance coverage to protect against the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business and risks of liability for environmental damage and pollution, consistent with industry practice. We cannot assure you, however, that all risks are adequately insured against, that any particular claims will be paid or that we will be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Our hull and machinery insurance covers risks of actual or constructive loss from collision, fire, grounding, engine breakdown and other casualties up to an agreed value per vessel. Our war-risks insurance covers risks of confiscation, seizure, capture, vandalism, sabotage and other war-related risks. While some tank vessel owners and operators obtain loss-of-hire insurance covering the loss of revenue during extended tank vessel off-hire periods, we, along with several other tank vessel operators, do not have this type of coverage. We believe that, given our diversified marine transportation operations and high utilization rate, this type of coverage is not economical and is of limited value to us. However, we evaluate the need for such coverage on an ongoing basis taking into account insurance market conditions and the employment of our vessels. 16 Our protection and indemnity insurance covers third-party liabilities and other related expenses from, among other things, injury or death of crew, passengers and other third parties, claims arising from collisions, damage to cargo, damage to third-party property, asbestos exposure and pollution arising from oil or other substances. Our current protection and indemnity insurance coverage for pollution is $1 billion per incident and is provided by United Kingdom P&I Club, which is a member of the International Group of protection and indemnity mutual assurance associations. The 17 protection and indemnity associations that comprise the International Group insure approximately 90% of the world’s commercial tonnage and have entered into a pooling agreement to reinsure each association’s liabilities. Each protection and indemnity association has capped its exposure to this pooling agreement at approximately $4.3 billion per non-pollution incident. As a member of UK P&I Club, we are subject to calls payable to the associations based on our claims records, as well as the claim records of all other members of the individual associations and members of UK P&I Club. We are not currently the subject of any claims alleging exposure to contaminants, although such claims may be brought in the future. In connection with our purchase of the six ITBs from Hess, we and Hess agreed that we would share liability for any claims by employees for exposure to contaminants including, without limitation, polychlorinated biphenyls, asbestos and radioactive substances, or working conditions on the vessels, based on the number of days such employee worked for Hess compared to the number of days such employee worked for us. If, notwithstanding the foregoing, we had to pay claims solely out of our own funds, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Furthermore, any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, and since it is possible that a large number of claims could be brought, the aggregate amount of these deductibles could be material. We may not be able to obtain insurance coverage in the future to cover all risks inherent in our business, and insurance, if available, may be at rates that we do not consider commercially reasonable. In addition, as more single-hull vessels are retired from active service, insurers may be less willing to insure and customers less willing to hire single-hull vessels. Competition The Jones Act restricts U.S. point-to-point maritime shipping to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the United States, at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens and manned by U.S. crews. In our market areas, our primary direct competitors are the operators of U.S. flag ocean-going tank vessels and U.S. flag parcel tankers, including the captive fleets of major oil and chemical companies. The domestic tank vessel industry is highly competitive. In the spot charter markets, our vessels compete with all other vessels of a size and type required by a charterer that can be available at the date specified. In the longer-term charter market, competition is based primarily on price and availability, although we believe charterers have become more selective with respect to the quality of vessels they hire, with particular emphasis on factors such as age, double-hulls or double-bottoms and the reliability and quality of operations. We believe major oil and chemical companies are increasingly demonstrating a preference for modern vessels based on concerns about the environmental risks associated with older vessels. Consequently, we believe that owners of large relatively modern fleets such as ours have been able to gain a competitive advantage over owners of older fleets. U.S. flag tank vessels also compete with petroleum product pipelines and are affected by the level of imports on foreign flag products carriers. Because the existing U.S. pipeline network offers a low cost method of transporting oil and refined petroleum products, it is capacity constrained in many markets. We believe that high capital costs, tariff regulation and environmental considerations make it unlikely that a new refined product pipeline system will be built in our market areas in the near future. It is possible, however, that new pipeline segments, including pipeline segments that connect with existing pipeline systems, could be built or that existing pipelines could be expanded or converted to carry refined petroleum products. Either of these occurrences could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete in particular locations. A substantial majority of all long-haul shipments of chemicals in the United States are currently by rail. We believe that the cost to ship by rail is significantly higher than shipping by tanker, even when inventory and logistics costs are factored in. We believe that this lower cost and the availability of vessels with many tank segregations that allow smaller quantities of product to be carried will increase the demand for tanker transportation of chemicals. Regulation Our operations are subject to significant federal, state and local regulation, the principal provisions of which are described below. 17 Environmental General. Government regulation significantly affects the ownership and operation of our tank vessels. Our tank vessels are subject to international conventions, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to safety and health and environmental protection, including the generation, storage, handling, emission, transportation and discharge of hazardous and non-hazardous materials. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations, we cannot predict the ultimate cost of complying with these requirements, or the impact of these requirements on the resale value or useful lives of our tank vessels. The recent trend in environmental legislation is toward more stringent requirements, and this trend will likely continue. In addition, a future serious marine incident occurring in U.S. waters or internationally that results in significant oil pollution or causes significant environmental impact could result in additional legislation or regulation that could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions. Various governmental and quasi-governmental agencies require us to obtain permits, licenses and certificates for the operation of our tank vessels. While we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations and have all permits, licenses and certificates necessary for the conduct of our operations, frequently changing and increasingly stricter requirements, future non-compliance or failure to maintain necessary permits or approvals could require us to incur substantial costs or temporarily suspend operation of one or more of our tank vessels. We maintain operating standards for all our tank vessels that emphasize operational safety, quality maintenance, continuous training of our crews and officers, care for the environment and compliance with U.S. regulations. Our tank vessels are subject to both scheduled and unscheduled inspections by a variety of governmental and private entities, each of which may have unique requirements. These entities include the local port authorities (U.S. Coast Guard or other port state control authorities), classification societies, flag state administration and charterers, particularly terminal operators and oil companies. We manage our exposure to losses from potential discharges of pollutants through the use of well maintained, well managed and well equipped vessels and safety and environmental programs, including a maritime compliance program and our insurance program. Moreover, we believe we will be able to accommodate reasonably foreseeable environmental regulatory changes. However, the risks of substantial costs, liabilities and penalties are inherent in marine operations, including potential criminal prosecution and civil penalties for negligent or intentional discharge of pollutants. As a result, there can be no assurance that any new regulations or requirements or any discharge of pollutants by us will not have a material adverse effect on us. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990. The Oil Pollution Act of 1990, or OPA 90, established an extensive regulatory and liability regime for the protection of the environment from oil spills. OPA 90 affects all vessels trading in U.S. waters, including the exclusive economic zone extending 200 miles seaward. OPA 90 sets forth various technical and operating requirements for tank vessels operating in U.S. waters. In general, all newly-built or converted tankers carrying crude oil and petroleum-based products in U.S. waters must be built with double-hulls. Existing single-hull, double-sided and double-bottomed tank vessels are to be phased out of service between 1995 and 2015 based on their tonnage and age. Under the phase-out schedule, two of our six ITBs will be precluded from transporting petroleum and petroleum-based products in the United States by May and June 2012, an additional two ITBs and the Chemical Pioneer and the Charleston must be phased out of transporting petroleum and petroleum-based products by each of February, March, September and October 2013 and the remaining two ITBs must be phased out of service by June and August 2014. In order to bring our ITBs into compliance with OPA 90, at a minimum we will be required to retrofit each ITB with double sides. The Sea Venture is scheduled to be phased out of petroleum service in September 2013, but may remain in the chemical trade beyond 2013. Although the Charleston is not OPA 90 compliant, we believe we will be able to obtain a waiver allowing us to carry refined petroleum products in the vessel’s center tanks and non-petroleum-based products in the other tanks. Although the Chemical Pioneer is double-hulled, it is not OPA 90 compliant; however, we believe that a minor modification, that must be made by its mandatory phase-out date in 2013, will bring the Chemical Pioneer into compliance with OPA 90. The Houston is a double-hulled vessel and therefore does not have a phase-out date. Under OPA 90, owners or operators of tank vessels operating in U.S. waters must file vessel spill response plans with the U.S. Coast Guard and operate in compliance with the plans. These vessel response plans must, among other things: • address a “worst case” scenario and identify and ensure, through contract or other approved means, the availability of necessary private response resources; • describe crew training and drills; and 18 • identify a qualified individual with specific authority and responsibility to implement removal actions in the event of an oil spill. Our vessel response plans have been accepted by the U.S. Coast Guard, and all of our vessel crew members and spill management team personnel have been trained to comply with these guidelines. In addition, we conduct regular oil-spill response drills in accordance with the guidelines set out in OPA 90. We believe that all of our tank vessels are in substantial compliance with OPA 90. Environmental Spill and Release Liability. OPA 90 and various state laws substantially increased over historic levels the statutory liability of owners and operators of vessels for the discharge or substantial threat of a discharge of oil and the resulting damages, both regarding the limits of liability and the scope of damages. OPA 90 imposes joint and several strict liability on responsible parties, including owners, operators and bareboat charterers, for all oil spill and containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from spills attributable to their vessels. A complete defense is available only when the responsible party establishes that it exercised due care and took precautions against foreseeable acts or omissions of third parties and when the spill is caused solely by an act of God, act of war (including civil war and insurrection) or a third party other than an employee or agent or party in a contractual relationship with the responsible party. These limited defenses may be lost if the responsible party fails to report the incident or reasonably cooperate with the appropriate authorities or refuses to comply with an order concerning clean-up activities. Even if the spill is caused solely by a third party, the owner or operator must pay removal costs and damage claims and then seek reimbursement from the third party or the trust fund established under OPA 90. Finally, in certain circumstances involving oil spills from tank vessels, OPA 90 and other environmental laws may impose criminal liability on personnel and/or the corporate entity. OPA 90 limits the liability of each responsible party for a tank vessel to the greater of $1,200 per gross registered ton or $10 million per discharge. This limit does not apply where, among other things, the spill is caused by gross negligence or willful misconduct of, or a violation of an applicable federal safety, construction or operating regulation by, a responsible party or its agent or employee or any person acting in a contractual relationship with a responsible party. In addition to removal costs, OPA 90 provides for recovery of damages, including: • natural resource damages and related assessment costs; • real and personal property damages; • net loss of taxes, royalties, rents, fees and other lost revenues; • net costs of public services necessitated by a spill response, such as protection from fire, safety or health hazards; • loss of profits or impairment of earning capacity due to the injury, destruction or loss of real property, personal property and natural resources; and • loss of subsistence use of natural resources. OPA 90 expanded the pre-existing financial responsibility requirements for tank vessels operating in U.S. waters and requires owners and operators of tank vessels to establish and maintain with the U.S. Coast Guard evidence of their financial responsibility sufficient to meet their potential liabilities imposed by OPA 90. Under the regulations, we may provide evidence of insurance, a surety bond, a guarantee, letter of credit, qualification as a self-insurer or other evidence of financial responsibility. We have provided evidence of insurance under the regulations and have received certificates of financial responsibility from the U.S. Coast Guard for all of our tank vessels subject to this requirement. OPA 90 expressly provides that individual states are entitled to enforce their own pollution liability laws, even if inconsistent with or imposing greater liability than OPA 90. There is no uniform liability scheme among the states. Some states have OPA 90-like schemes for limiting liability to various amounts, some rely on common law fault-based remedies and others impose strict and/or unlimited liability on an owner or operator. Virtually all coastal states have enacted their own pollution prevention, liability and response laws, whether statutory or through court decisions, with many providing for some form of unlimited liability. We believe that the liability provisions of OPA 90 and similar state laws have greatly expanded potential liability in the event of an oil spill, even where we are not at fault. Some states have also established their own requirements for financial responsibility. However, in March 2000, the U.S. Supreme Court decided United States v. Locke. In that case, INTERTANKO challenged tank vessel regulations enacted by the State of Washington. The Court struck down several 19 regulations and remanded the case for review of additional regulations. The Court held that the regulation of maritime commerce is generally a federal responsibility because of the need for national and international uniformity, although it noted that states may regulate their own ports and waterways so long as the rules are based on the peculiarities of local waters and do not conflict with federal regulation. As a result of this ruling, at least two states have repealed regulations concerning the operation, manning, construction or design of tank vessels. Parties affected by oil pollution may pursue relief from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund, absent full recovery by them against a responsible party. Responsible parties may seek contribution from the fund for costs incurred that exceeded the liability limits of OPA 90. The responsible party would need to establish that it is entitled to both a statutory defense against liability and to a statutory limitation of liability to obtain contribution from the fund. If we are deemed a responsible party for an oil pollution incident and are ineligible for contribution from the fund, the costs of responding to an oil pollution incident could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We presently maintain oil pollution liability insurance in an amount in excess of that required by OPA 90. Through our protection and indemnity club, the UK P&I Club, our current coverage for oil pollution is $1 billion per incident. It is possible, however, that our liability for an oil pollution incident may exceed the insurance coverage we maintain. We are also subject to potential liability arising under the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, or CERCLA, which applies to the discharge of hazardous substances, whether on land or at sea. Specifically, CERCLA provides for liability of owners and operators of tank vessels for cleanup and removal of hazardous substances and provides for additional penalties in connection with environmental damage. Liability under CERCLA for releases of hazardous substances from vessels is limited to the greater of $300 per gross ton or $5 million per incident unless attributable to willful misconduct or neglect, a violation of applicable standards or rules, or upon failure to provide reasonable cooperation and assistance. CERCLA liability for releases from facilities other than vessels is generally unlimited. We are required to show proof of insurance, surety bond, self insurance or other evidence of financial responsibility to pay damages under OPA 90 and CERCLA in the amount of $1,500 per gross ton for vessels, consisting of the sum of the OPA 90 liability limit of $1,200 per gross ton or $10 million per discharge and the CERCLA liability limit of $300 per gross ton or $5 million per discharge. We have satisfied these requirements and obtained a U.S. Coast Guard Certificate of Financial Responsibility. OPA 90 and CERCLA each preserve the right to recover damages under other existing laws, including maritime tort law. Water. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean Water Act, or CWA, imposes restrictions and strict controls on the discharge of pollutants into navigable waters, and such discharges generally require permits. The CWA provides for civil, criminal and administrative penalties for any unauthorized discharges and imposes substantial liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages. State laws for the control of water pollution also provide varying civil, criminal and administrative penalties and liabilities in the case of a discharge of petroleum, its derivatives, hazardous substances, wastes and pollutants into state waters. In addition, the Coastal Zone Management Act authorizes state implementation and development of programs of management measures for non-point source pollution to restore and protect coastal waters. Solid Waste. Our operations occasionally generate and require the transportation, treatment and disposal of both hazardous and non-hazardous solid wastes that are subject to the requirements of the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, or RCRA, and comparable state and local requirements. In August 1998, the EPA added four petroleum refining wastes to the list of RCRA hazardous wastes. In addition, in the course of our tank vessel operations, we engage contractors to remove and dispose of waste material, including tank residue. In the event that such waste is found to be “hazardous” under either RCRA or the CWA, and is disposed of in violation of applicable law, we could be found jointly and severally liable for the cleanup costs and any resulting damages. Finally, the EPA does not currently classify “used oil” as “hazardous waste,” provided certain recycling standards are met. However, some states in which we pick up or deliver cargo have classified “used oil” as “hazardous” under state laws patterned after RCRA. The cost of managing wastes generated by tank vessel operations has increased in recent years under stricter state and federal standards. Additionally, from time to time we arrange for the disposal of hazardous waste or hazardous substances at offsite disposal facilities. If such materials are improperly disposed of by third parties, we might still be liable for clean up costs under CERCLA or the equivalent state laws. Air Emissions. The federal Clean Air Act of 1970, as amended by the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977 and 1990, or CAA, requires the EPA to promulgate standards applicable to emissions of volatile organic compounds and other air contaminants. Our vessels are subject to vapor control and recovery requirements for certain cargoes when loading, unloading, ballasting, cleaning and conducting other operations in regulated port areas. Our ITBs are equipped with vapor control systems that satisfy these requirements. In addition, in December 1999, the EPA issued a final rule regarding emissions standards for 20 marine diesel engines. The final rule applies emissions standards to new engines beginning with the 2004 model year. In the preamble to the final rule, the EPA noted that it may revisit the application of emissions standards to rebuilt or remanufactured engines, if the industry does not take steps to introduce new pollution control technologies. Finally, the EPA has entered into a settlement that will expand this rulemaking to include certain large diesel engines not previously addressed in the final rule. Adoption of such standards could require modifications to some existing marine diesel engines and may result in material expenditures, however, we do not believe at this time that any of our vessels will be affected by this rulemaking. The CAA also requires states to draft State Implementation Plans, or SIPs, designed to attain national health-based air quality standards in primarily major metropolitan and/or industrial areas. Where states fail to present approvable SIPs or SIP revisions by certain statutory deadlines, the federal government is required to draft a Federal Implementation Plan. Several SIPs regulate emissions resulting from barge loading and degassing operations by requiring the installation of vapor control equipment. As stated above, our ITBs are already equipped with vapor control systems that satisfy these requirements. Although a risk exists that new regulations could require significant capital expenditures and otherwise increase our costs, we believe, based upon the regulations that have been proposed to date, that no material capital expenditures beyond those currently contemplated and no material increase in costs are likely to be required. Coastwise Laws Substantially all of our operations are conducted in the U.S. domestic trade, which is governed by the coastwise laws of the United States. The U.S. coastwise laws reserve marine transportation between points in the United States to vessels built in and documented under the laws of the United States (U.S. flag) and owned and manned by U.S. citizens. Generally, an entity is deemed a U.S. citizen for these purposes so long as: • it is organized under the laws of the United States or of a state; • its chief executive officer, by whatever title, its chairman of its board of directors and all persons authorized to act in the absence or disability of such persons are a U.S. citizen; • no more than a minority of the number of its directors (or equivalent persons) necessary to constitute a quorum are non-U.S. citizens; • at least 75% of the stock or equity interest and voting power in the corporation is beneficially owned by U.S. citizens free of any trust, fiduciary arrangement or other agreement, arrangement or understanding whereby voting power may be exercised directly or indirectly by non-U.S. citizens; and • in the case of a limited partnership, the general partner meets U.S. citizenship requirements for U.S. coastwise trade. Because we could lose our privilege of operating our vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade if non-U.S. citizens were to own or control in excess of 25% of our outstanding interests or those of our general partner, our limited partnership agreement initially restricts foreign ownership and control of our common and subordinated units, and those of our general partner, to not more than 15% of the respective interests. There have been repeated efforts aimed at repeal or significant change of the Jones Act. Although we believe it is unlikely that the Jones Act will be substantially modified or repealed, there can be no assurance that Congress will not substantially modify or repeal such laws. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. As a result of the Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, a short-term waiver, which expired on October 24, 2005, was granted by the Department of Homeland Security, lifting the Jones Act restriction on foreign-flag carriers, allowing these carriers to replace transporting needs arising from out-of-service pipelines. Operationally, we were not materially impacted by this waiver as all of our available ITBs were covered by either long-term time charters or contracts of affreightment. As a result of the hurricanes, our chemical vessels experienced slight erosion of time charter equivalent rates due to weather delays and the drydocking of the Jacksonville was delayed due to labor shortages. 21 Other Our vessels are subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Coast Guard, the National Transportation Safety Board, the U.S. Customs Service and the U.S. Maritime Administration, as well as subject to rules of private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. These agencies and organizations establish safety standards and are authorized to investigate vessels and accidents and to recommend improved maritime safety standards. Moreover, to ensure compliance with applicable safety regulations, the U.S. Coast Guard is authorized to inspect vessels at will. Occupational Health Regulations Our vessel operations are subject to occupational safety and health regulations issued by the U.S. Coast Guard and, to an extent, by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration. These regulations currently require us to perform monitoring, medical testing and recordkeeping with respect to personnel engaged in the handling of the various cargoes transported by our vessels. Security Heightened awareness of security needs brought about by the events of September 11, 2001 has caused the U.S. Coast Guard, the International Maritime Organization, and the states and local ports to adopt heightened security procedures relating to ports and vessels. We have updated our procedures in light of the new requirements. In 2002, Congress passed the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, or MTS Act, which, together with the International Maritime Organization’s recent security proposals (collectively known as The International Ship and Port Security Code), requires specific security plans for our vessels and more rigorous crew identification requirements. We have implemented vessel security plans and procedures for each of our vessels pursuant to rules implementing the MTS Act that have been issued by the U.S. Coast Guard. Vessel Condition Our vessels are subject to periodic inspection and survey by, and drydocking and maintenance requirements of, the U.S. Coast Guard, the American Bureau of Shipping, or both. We believe we are currently in compliance in all material respects with the environmental and other laws and regulations, including health and safety requirements, to which our operations are subject. We are unaware of any pending or threatened litigation or other judicial, administrative or arbitration proceedings against us occasioned by any alleged non-compliance with such laws or regulations. The risks of substantial costs, liabilities and penalties are, however, inherent in marine operations, and there can be no assurance that significant costs, liabilities or penalties will not be incurred by or imposed on us in the future. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors when evaluating U.S. Shipping Partners L.P.: Risks Inherent in Our Business We may not have sufficient available cash to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: • the level of consumption of refined petroleum, petrochemical and chemical products in the markets in which we operate; • the prices we obtain for our services; • the level of our operating costs, including payments to our general partner; • the level of unscheduled off-hire days and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled drydockings of our vessels; and 22 • prevailing economic conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution will depend on other factors such as: • the level of capital expenditures we make, including for acquisitions, drydockings for repairs, retrofitting of vessels to comply with OPA 90, newbuildings, and compliance with new regulations; • the restrictions contained in our debt instruments and our debt service requirements; • fluctuations in our working capital needs; • our ability to make working capital or other borrowings; and • the amount of reserves established by our general partner. For 2006, we increased our maintenance capital expenditure reserve from $17.2 million to $19.6 million, which will reduce our cash available for distribution by $2.4 million in 2006 compared to 2005. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our cash flow, including cash reserves, payments received under the Hess support agreement and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Our net income per unit for each of 2005, 2004 and 2003 was less than the minimum annual distribution of $1.80 per unit. The amount of available cash we need to pay the minimum quarterly distribution for four quarters on the common units, the subordinated units and the general partner interest outstanding is approximately $25.3 million. Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade, or if those provisions were modified or repealed. We are subject to the Jones Act and other federal laws that restrict maritime transportation between points in the United States to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the United States, at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens and manned by U.S. crews. Compliance with the Jones Act increases our operating costs. We are responsible for monitoring the ownership of our common units and other partnership interests to ensure our compliance with the Jones Act. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in U.S. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels. In addition, if any of our ITBs ceases to be qualified under the Jones Act, Hess will no longer be required to make support payments in respect of that vessel under the Hess support agreement. During the past several years, interest groups have lobbied Congress to modify or repeal the Jones Act to facilitate foreign flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. flag vessels under the Jones Act and cargo preference laws. Foreign vessels generally have lower construction costs and generally operate at significantly lower costs than we do in the U.S. markets, which would likely result in reduced charter rates. We believe that continued efforts will be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act and cargo preference laws currently benefiting U.S. flag vessels. If these efforts are successful, it could result in significantly increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. As a result of hurricanes Katrina and Rita, a short-term waiver, which expired on October 24, 2005, was granted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, lifting the Jones Act restriction on foreign-flag carriers, allowing these carriers to replace transporting needs arising from out of service pipelines. We cannot assure that future waivers will not be granted. Because we must make substantial expenditures to comply with mandatory drydocking requirements for our fleet, and because these expenditures may be higher than we currently anticipate, we may not have sufficient available cash to pay the minimum quarterly distribution in full. Both domestic (U.S. Coast Guard) and international (International Maritime Organization) regulatory bodies require that our ITBs be drydocked for inspection and maintenance every five years and that we conduct a mid-period underwater survey in lieu of drydocking, and that our parcel tankers and the Houston be drydocked twice every five years. In addition, vessels may have to be drydocked in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage. Two of our six ITBs were drydocked in 2005, an additional two will be drydocked in 2006 and the remaining two in 2007. We estimate that drydocking these vessels will cost approximately $6.0 million per vessel. The Houston was drydocked 23 in 2005 at a cost of $3.1 million and the Sea Venture was placed in drydock in January 2006 at an estimated cost of $8.9 million and will both be required to be drydocked again in 2008. In addition, our parcel tankers are required to be drydocked in both 2006 and 2008. We estimate drydocking of the parcel tankers will cost approximately $3.0 million to $5.0 million per vessel. When drydocked, each of our ITBs will be out of service for approximately 50 to 60 days and each of our parcel tankers will be out of service for approximately 35 to 50 days. At the time we drydock these vessels, the actual cost of drydocking may be higher due to inflation and other factors. In addition, vessels in drydock will not generate any income, which will reduce our revenue and cash available for distribution. Because the required drydocks for the Sea Venture in 2011 and the ITBs in 2010 (Jacksonville and New York), 2011 (Groton and Mobile) and 2012 (Baltimore and Philadelphia) occur near their respective mandatory phase-out dates under OPA 90, it may not be economical for us to perform the drydocks on one or more of those vessels if we determine not to retrofit such vessel to make it OPA 90 compliant. In such event, if the vessel taken out of service is not replaced, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. The cost of bringing our fleet into compliance with OPA 90 will be significant; this may cause us to reduce the amount of our cash distributions or prevent us from raising the amount of our cash distributions. Under OPA 90, we will be required to phase-out the use of our vessels carrying petroleum-based products beginning in 2012 unless we retrofit these vessels. The phase-out dates for these vessels are: Groton and Jacksonville (2012), Baltimore, Charleston, Chemical Pioneer, Sea Venture and New York (2013) and Mobile and Philadelphia (2014). As a result of these requirements, these vessels will be prohibited from transporting crude oil and petroleum-based products in U.S. waters after these dates unless they are retrofitted to comply with OPA 90. In order to bring our ITBs into compliance with OPA 90, at a minimum we will be required to retrofit each ITB with double-sides. We estimate that the current cost to retrofit each ITB with double-sides is approximately $25 million per vessel; however at the time we make these expenditures, the actual cost could be higher due to inflation and other factors. Several of our customers have indicated that they are currently not interested in chartering retrofitted ITBs. The cost of retrofitting the ITBs compared to the cost of newbuildings, market conditions, charter rates, customer acceptance and the availability and cost of financing will be major factors in determining the OPA 90 compliance plan that we ultimately implement. Depending on the cost of the plan that we ultimately adopt to comply with OPA 90 phase-out requirements, the board of directors of our general partner, with approval by the conflicts committee, may elect to increase our estimated maintenance capital expenditures, which would reduce our basic surplus and our cash available for distribution. In addition, if charter rates decline, it may not be economical for us to retrofit one or more ITBs, in which event we would have to take them out of service, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. We may fund our OPA 90 compliance plan, particularly newbuildings, through off-balance sheet financing. We may be required to make deposits to reserve shipyard berths in connection with our OPA 90 compliance plan, some or all of which may be non-refundable if we do not continue with our initial plan. Furthermore, even if we are successful in funding the OPA 90 compliance costs for our fleet, the obligation to incur and fund such costs may make it difficult for us to increase our cash distributions per unit for the foreseeable future. Such an impact could adversely affect the trading price of our common units. Although the Chemical Pioneer is double-hulled, it is not OPA 90 compliant; however, we believe that a minor modification that must be made by 2013 will bring the Chemical Pioneer into compliance with OPA 90. Although the Charleston is also not OPA 90 compliant, our intent is to seek a waiver allowing us to carry refined petroleum products in the vessel’s center tanks and non-petroleum-based products in the other tanks rather than retrofit the vessel. If the waiver is not obtained, or under certain circumstances even if the waiver is obtained, we may not be able to transport a sufficient quantity of products that generate qualifying income, in which event we would be required to place the Charleston in a corporate subsidiary to avoid generating too much non-qualifying income. A corporate subsidiary will be subject to corporate-level tax, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to you. The Sea Venture is not OPA 90 compliant and we currently intend to operate the Sea Venture in the chemical trade beyond its OPA 90 phase out date in September 2013. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures our general partner is required to deduct from basic surplus each quarter is based on our current estimates and could increase in the future. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from basic surplus each quarter estimated maintenance capital expenditures as opposed to actual maintenance capital expenditures in order to reduce disparities in basic surplus caused by fluctuating maintenance capital expenditures, such as retrofitting or drydocking. Our annual estimated maintenance capital expenditures for purposes of calculating basic surplus increased from $17.2 million in 2005 to 24 $19.6 million in 2006. This amount is based on our current estimates of the amounts of expenditures we will be required to make in the future, which we believe to be reasonable. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from basic surplus is subject to review and change by the board of directors of our general partner at least once a year, with any change approved by the conflicts committee. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel and may also increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of our older vessels will increase. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional expenditures. For example, if the U.S. Coast Guard or the American Bureau of Shipping, an independent classification society that inspects the hull and machinery of commercial ships to assess compliance with minimum criteria as set by U.S. and international regulations, enacts new standards, we may be required to make significant expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment. In order to satisfy any such requirement, we may be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to continue to operate some of our vessels, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. In order to fund our capital expenditures, we may be required to incur borrowings or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such offering as well as by adverse market conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Even if we are successful in obtaining such funds, however, the terms of such financings could limit our ability to pay cash distributions to unitholders. A decline in demand for refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products, particularly in the coastal regions of the United States, or a decrease in the cost of importing refined petroleum products, could cause demand for U.S. flag tank vessel capacity and charter rates to decline, which would decrease our revenues, profitability and cash available for distribution. The demand for U.S. flag tank vessel capacity is influenced by the demand for refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products and other factors including: • global and regional economic and political conditions; • developments in international trade; • changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported; • environmental concerns; • availability and cost of alternative methods of transportation of products; and • in the case of tank vessels transporting refined petroleum products, competition from alternative sources of energy, such as natural gas, and alternate transportation methods. Any of these factors could adversely affect the demand for U.S. flag tank vessel capacity and charter rates. Any decrease in demand for tank vessel capacity or decrease in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. The demand for U.S. flag tank vessel capacity is also influenced by the cost of importing refined petroleum products. Historically, charter rates for vessels qualified to participate in the coastwise trade under the Jones Act have been higher than charter rates for foreign flag vessels because of the higher construction and operating costs of U.S. flag vessels due to the Jones 25 Act requirements that such vessels must be built in the United States and manned by U.S. crews. Therefore, it has historically been cheaper for certain areas of the United States, such as the northeastern United States, to import refined petroleum products than to obtain them from U.S. refineries. International shipping rates can influence the amount of refined petroleum products imported into the United States. If the cost of foreign shipping of imported refined petroleum products, which is currently at historically high levels, decreases, charter rates for foreign flag vessels may decline, making it cheaper to import refined petroleum products to other regions of the East Coast and the West Coast to meet increasing demand. If this were to occur, demand for our ITBs and charter rates could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. The demand for U.S. flag tank vessel capacity and charter rates are currently increasing as vessels are being phased-out of service under OPA 90. If the existing trend reverses due to changes under the Jones Act or otherwise, demand for our tankers and charter rates could decrease, which could adversely affect our business. Marine transportation has inherent operating risks, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: • marine disasters; • bad weather; • mechanical failures; • grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; • human error; and • war and terrorism. All of these hazards can result in death or injury to persons, loss of property, environmental damages, delays or rerouting. If one of our vessels were involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental contamination, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. We carry insurance to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business. Nonetheless, risks may arise against which we are not adequately insured. For example, a catastrophic spill could exceed our insurance coverage and have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may not be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future, and we cannot guarantee that any particular claim will be paid. In the past, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Furthermore, even if insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement ship in the event of a loss. We do not carry loss-of-hire insurance, which covers the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as for unscheduled drydocking due to damage to the vessel from accidents. Accordingly, any loss of a vessel or extended vessel off-hire, due to accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Please read “—We have a limited number of vessels, and any loss of use of a vessel could adversely affect our results of operations.” Because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations, we may also be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expenses to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. 26 The failure or inability of Hess to make support payments could adversely affect our business and cash available for distribution. In connection with our purchase of six ITBs from Hess in September 2002, Hess agreed that if the contract rate for a charter of any of the vessels we acquired was less than the rate specified in our support agreement with Hess, Hess would, subject to specified limited exceptions, pay us the difference between the two rates. During 2005, 2004 and 2003, Hess made net support payments to us aggregating $1.0 million, $4.0 million and $5.3 million, respectively. If for any reason Hess is unable or fails to make any payments due to us under the support agreement, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, if we enter into charters of our ITBs with companies having specified investment grade credit rating, the charter rate is equal to or higher than the rate specified in the support agreement and certain other conditions are met, then the support agreement is not applicable to those charters even if the charterer subsequently fails to make payments under the charter. In the event the charter rates we receive at any time during the term of the agreement on the ITBs exceed the Hess support rate, then we must pay such excess amounts to Hess until we have repaid Hess for all prior support payments previously made by Hess to us, and then we must share 50% of any additional excess amount with Hess. The aggregate amount of all support payments made by Hess to us through December 31, 2005 is $13.6 million, of which we have repaid $1.2 million to Hess as of December 31, 2005. This reimbursement and sharing obligation may reduce cash that would otherwise be available for distribution. The termination of the Hess support agreement could adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions. The Hess support agreement terminates on September 13, 2007. If at the time of termination the charter rates we are receiving on the six ITBs are less than the Hess support rates, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, and our cash available for distribution will be adversely affected. In addition, any support payments received from Hess will be included in the calculation of adjusted basic surplus through the expiration of the agreement in 2007. As a result, any such payments could allow 25% of the subordinated units to become eligible for early conversion into common units on December 31, 2007 even if we are not able to earn and pay the minimum quarterly distribution on all common units after termination of the Hess support agreement. We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these customers could adversely affect our business and operating results. The portion of our revenues attributable to any single customer changes over time, depending on the level of relevant activity by the customer, our ability to meet the customer’s needs and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. In 2005, 2004 and 2003, BP accounted for 30%, 27% and 52% of our revenues, respectively, Shell accounted for 25%, 20% and 23% of our revenues, respectively, and Hess accounted for 10%, 12% and 15% of our revenues, respectively. If we were to lose any of these customers or if any of these customers significantly reduced its use of our services, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Revenues received from Hess exclude payments under the support agreement. We may not be able to renew our long-term contracts when they expire. We have contracts with Dow Chemical, ExxonMobil, Koch Industries, Lyondell Chemical and Shell with specified minimum cargo requirements that will, in aggregate, account for approximately 74% of the anticipated usable capacity of the Charleston through July 2007 and 75% of the anticipated usable capacity of the Chemical Pioneer through February 2007. Additionally, we will commence a long-term charter with Morgan Stanley that will account for 100% of the usable capacity of the Houston, beginning mid-2006. These arrangements may not be renewed, or if renewed, may not be renewed at similar rates. Under the Hess support agreement, we are assured of specified minimum charter rates for our ITBs through September 13, 2007. We may not be able to obtain charter rates for the ITBs equal to or greater than the rates provided in the Hess support agreement following expiration of the Hess support agreement. If we are unable to obtain new charters at rates equivalent to those received under the old contracts or under the Hess support agreement, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. We have a limited number of vessels, and any loss of use of a vessel could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently own six ITBs, one product tanker and three parcel tankers. Four of our ITBs and two of our parcel tankers are under long-term contracts. The Houston will commence a long-term contract in mid-2006 and the Sea Venture will begin covering the long-term contract arranged for the first ATB until December 2006, when the ATB is expected to be placed 27 in service. In the event any of our ITBs or parcel tankers has to be taken out of service for more than a couple of days, we may be unable to fulfill our obligations under these long-term contracts with our remaining vessels. If we are unable to fulfill such obligations, we would have to contract with a third-party for use of a vessel, at our expense, to transport the charterer’s products, which might not be possible on acceptable terms or at all, or default under the contract, which would allow the charterer to terminate the contract. We will not receive any compensation under the Hess support agreement for ITBs taken out of service for repairs and maintenance. Also, if our two new ATBs under construction are not completed by the scheduled due date, we may be unable to fulfill our obligations under the long-term contracts we expect to have in place at the time of delivery. If we are unable to fulfill such obligations, we would have to contract with a third party for use of a vessel, at our expense, to transport the charterer’s products, which may not be possible on acceptable terms or at all, or default under the contract, which would allow the charterer to terminate the contract. In addition, because our first ATB will not be completed by the originally scheduled delivery date, we will have to use the Sea Venture to fulfill our obligations under contracts we entered into for such ATB until it is delivered, currently scheduled for December 2006, which will reduce our revenue and cash available for distribution. When we acquired the Charleston from ExxonMobil in May 2004, we agreed to transport cargo for ExxonMobil generally transported by the S/R Wilmington while such vessel was in drydock. We operated under this arrangement from June 2004 through November 2004 and chartered in another vessel on a short-term basis to fulfill our obligations under our charter agreements covering the Charleston. We are obligated to use our best efforts to assist ExxonMobil in covering its cargo transportation requirements that would have been covered by the S/R Wilmington during future drydocks of that vessel. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our marine transportation business. Due to our lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in this business would have a significantly greater impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained and operated more diverse assets. Increased competition in the domestic tank vessel industry could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share for us. Contracts for our vessels are generally awarded on a competitive basis, and competition in the markets we serve is intense. The most important factors determining whether a contract will be awarded include: • availability and capability of the vessels; • ability to meet the customer’s schedule; • price; • safety record; • ability to satisfy the customer’s vetting requirements; • reputation, including perceived quality of the vessel; and • quality and experience of management. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources and larger operating staffs than we do. As a result, they may be able to make vessels available more quickly and efficiently, transition to double-hulled vessels more rapidly and withstand the effects of declines in charter rates for a longer period of time. They may also be better able to address a downturn in the domestic demand for refined petroleum, petrochemical or commodity chemical products. As a result, we could lose customers and market share to these competitors. We also face competition from refined petroleum product pipelines. Long-haul transportation of refined petroleum products is generally less costly by pipeline than by tank vessel. The construction of new pipeline segments to carry petroleum products into our markets, including pipeline segments that connect with existing pipeline systems, the expansion of existing pipelines and the conversion of existing non-refined petroleum product pipelines, could adversely affect our ability to compete in particular locations. Our transportation of petrochemical and commodity chemical products faces intense competition from railroads, which we estimate transport approximately two-thirds of all petrochemical and commodity chemical products. We believe the cost of transporting these products by rail is generally higher than the cost of marine transportation, and any decrease in rail rates could adversely affect the amount of petrochemical and commodity chemical products we carry. 28 Delays or cost overruns in the construction of a new vessel or the retrofit or drydock maintenance of existing vessels could adversely affect our business. Cash flows from new or retrofitted vessels may not be immediate or as high as expected. We anticipate retrofitting our ITBs with double-sides in order to allow our ITBs to continue to transport refined petroleum products following their scheduled phase-out dates under OPA 90 or to replace such ITBs with newly built OPA 90 compliant tank vessels. We are also constructing three new ATBs and exploring the possibility of constructing new product tankers. In addition, each of our vessels must undergo mandatory drydocking for major repair and maintenance—every five years, in the case of our ITBs, with a mid-period underwater survey in lieu of drydocking, and twice every five years, in the case of our parcel tankers and the Houston. These projects will be subject to the risk of delay or cost overruns caused by the following: • unforeseen quality or engineering problems; • work stoppages; • weather interference; • unanticipated cost increases; • inability to have the work performed in the United States; • delays in receipt of necessary equipment; • inability to obtain the requisite permits, approvals or certifications from the U.S. Coast Guard and the American Bureau of Shipping upon completion of work; and • weather related conditions, such as hurricanes. Significant delays could have a material adverse effect on expected contract commitments for new or modified vessels and our future revenues and cash flows. In addition, significant delays could allow a charterer to cancel the charter or require us to charter additional vessels to meet our contractual obligations. Furthermore, customer demand for new or modified vessels may not be as high as we currently anticipate and, as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions may be adversely affected. The first ATB we are having constructed will be delivered at least six months later than scheduled and at a cost of no less than approximately $53.4 million. SENESCO has indicated that it is experiencing cost overruns and further delays in completing the ATB. As a result of the delay, we will have to use our Sea Venture parcel tanker to service the contracts entered into for our first ATB until that ATB is completed, rather than new charters, which will adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to increase our distributions. There is limited availability in U.S. shipyards for drydocking a vessel. As a result, the costs of performing drydock maintenance in the United States are significantly higher than they are overseas. Furthermore, U.S. shipyards may not have available capacity to perform drydock maintenance on our vessels at the times they require drydock maintenance, particularly in the event of an unscheduled drydock due to accident or other damage, in which event we will be required to have the work performed in an overseas shipyard. This may result in the vessel being off-hire, and therefore not earning any revenue, for a longer period of time because of the time required to travel to and from the overseas shipyard. In addition, we may be required to place a deposit in order to reserve shipyard slots for construction of new vessels, which may not be refundable if we elect not to proceed with such new construction. Our purchase of existing vessels involves risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our fleet renewal and expansion strategy includes the acquisition of existing vessels as well as the construction of new vessels. Unlike newly built vessels, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties with respect to their condition. While we generally inspect any existing vessel prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of its condition as we would possess if the vessel had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be more substantial than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow by expanding our business. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, some of which we can control and some of which we cannot. These factors include our ability to: 29 • identify businesses engaged in managing, operating or owning vessels for acquisitions or joint ventures; • identify vessels for acquisition; • consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; • integrate any acquired businesses or vessels successfully with our existing operations; • hire, train and retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; • improve our operating and financial systems and controls; and • obtain required financing for our existing and new operations. A deficiency in any of these factors would adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated growth in the levels of cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits. In addition, competition from other buyers could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay. In addition, we have had difficulty in finding good acquisition targets. In 2005 we incurred approximately $0.4 million of expenses in pursuing acquisitions that ultimately were not consummated. These costs adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to increase our distributions. The process of integrating acquired vessels into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, may absorb significant management attention and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development and expansion of our existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Further, if we issue additional common units, your interest in the partnership will be diluted and distributions to you may be reduced. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, which can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. Increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, insurance requirements and the manning, construction and operation of vessels significantly affect our operations. Many aspects of the marine transportation industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the U.S. Coast Guard, the International Maritime Organization, the National Transportation Safety Board, the U.S. Customs Service and the U.S. Maritime Administration, as well as to regulation by private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. The U.S. Coast Guard and the National Transportation Safety Board set safety standards and are authorized to investigate vessel accidents and recommend improved safety standards. The U.S. Coast Guard is authorized to inspect vessels at will. Our operations are also subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Some environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA 90, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Additionally, an oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and costs for natural resource damages under other federal and state laws or civil actions. The potential for these releases could increase as we increase our fleet capacity. Most states bordering on a navigable waterway have enacted legislation providing for potentially unlimited liability for the discharge of pollutants within their waters. For more information, please read “Item 1. Business—Regulation.” In order to maintain compliance with existing and future laws, we incur, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs in meeting maintenance and inspection requirements, developing and implementing emergency preparedness procedures, and obtaining insurance coverage or other required evidence of financial ability sufficient to address pollution incidents. These laws can: • impair the economic value of our vessels; • require a reduction in cargo carrying capacity or other structural or operational changes; • make our vessels less desirable to potential charterers; 30 • lead to decreases in available insurance coverage for affected vessels; or • result in the denial of access to certain ports. Future environmental requirements may be adopted that could limit our ability to operate, require us to incur substantial additional costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. We depend upon unionized labor for the provision of our services. Any work stoppages or labor disturbances could disrupt our business. All of our seagoing personnel, including our captains, are employed under contracts with the Seafarers’ International Union, in the case of our non-officer personnel, and the American Maritime Officers union, in the case of vessel officers, that expire in 2007. Any work stoppages or other labor disturbances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Our employees are covered by federal laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. All of our seagoing employees are covered by provisions of the Jones Act and general maritime law. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes, we have greater exposure for claims made by these employees as compared to employers whose employees are not covered by these provisions. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business and some of those persons face conflicts in the allocation of their time to our business. We depend on the services of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for senior management or key employees if their services were no longer available. We currently do not carry any key man insurance on any of our employees. The employment agreements of Messrs. Calvin Chew, Paul Gridley and Jeff Miller, our executive vice president, chairman and chief executive officer and vice president—chartering, respectively, only require them to spend a majority of their business time in managing our operations. Messrs. Chew, Gridley and Miller currently own and operate two Jones Act barges that have been transporting caustic soda and calcium chloride under contracts with third parties, and are permitted to acquire and operate additional tank barges of less than 15,000 deadweight tons under specified circumstances in the transportation of chemical products other than petroleum or petroleum products. Messrs. Chew, Gridley and Miller may face conflicts regarding the allocation of their time between our business and their barge business. If any of Messrs. Chew, Gridley and Miller were to spend less time in managing our business and affairs than they do currently, our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions may be adversely affected. In addition, we sublease approximately 75% of our New York office space to companies affiliated with our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Please read “—Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us—The members of United States Shipping Master LLC, including our executive officers, and their affiliates may engage in activities that compete directly with us,” “Item 11. Executive Compensation—Employment Agreements” and “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions – New York Sublease.” Terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs and any new attacks could disrupt our business. Heightened awareness of security needs after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 have caused the U.S. Coast Guard, the International Maritime Organization and the states and local ports to adopt heightened security procedures relating to ports and vessels. Complying with these procedures, as well as the implementation of security plans for our vessels required by the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, have increased our costs of security. Any future terrorist attacks could disrupt harbor operations in the ports in which we operate, which would disrupt our operations and result in lost revenue. The long-term impact that terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks may have on the petroleum industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including 31 disruptions of petroleum supplies and markets, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also affect our ability to raise capital. Changes in international trade agreements could affect our ability to provide marine transportation services at competitive rates. Currently, vessel trade or marine transportation between two ports in the United States, generally known as maritime cabotage or coastwise trade, is subject to U.S. laws, including the Jones Act, that restrict maritime cabotage to U.S. flag vessels qualified to engage in U.S. coastwise trade. Additionally, the Jones Act restrictions on the provision of maritime cabotage services are subject to certain exceptions under certain international trade agreements, including the General Agreement on Trade in Services and the North American Free Trade Agreement. If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise altered, the transportation of maritime cargo between U.S. ports could be opened to foreign-flag or foreign-manufactured vessels. Because foreign vessels may have lower construction costs and operate at significantly lower costs than we do in U.S. markets, this could significantly increase competition in the coastwise trade, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions. Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our general partner and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. United States Shipping Master LLC currently indirectly owns the 2% general partner interest and directly owns a 49% limited partner interest in us and owns and controls our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between our general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as United States Shipping Master LLC and its members, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing common units, unitholders consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable state law; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders; • in some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination periods; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; and • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. 32 Our partnership agreement limits our general partner’s fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: • permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner; • provides that our general partner is entitled to make other decisions in “good faith” if it reasonably believes that the decision is in our best interests; • generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be “fair and reasonable” to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is “fair and reasonable,” our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may not be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; and • provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence. In order to become a limited partner of our partnership, a common unitholder is required to agree to be bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management’s decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner is chosen by United States Shipping Master LLC, which is controlled by Sterling/US Shipping L.P. Sterling/US Shipping L.P. has the right to designate a majority of the directors of United States Shipping Master LLC and thus indirectly has the right to designate all the directors of our general partner. Please read “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions—United States Shipping Master Voting Arrangement.” Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have limited ability to remove our general partner. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Accordingly, the unitholders are currently unable to remove our general partner without its consent because United States Shipping Master LLC owns sufficient units to be able to prevent the general partner’s removal. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination periods and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined in our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud, gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner during the subordination periods because of the unitholders’ dissatisfaction with our general partner’s performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination periods. 33 We may issue additional common units without your approval, which would dilute your ownership interests. While any class A subordinated units remain outstanding, without the approval of our unitholders, our general partner may cause us to issue up to 3,449,984 additional common units for any purpose and a further 1,149,995 common units to fund the construction of capital improvements. Our general partner may also cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank with the common units, without unitholder approval, in a number of circumstances such as: • the issuance of common units in connection with acquisitions or capital improvements that increase cash flow from operations per unit on an estimated pro forma basis; • issuances of common units to repay indebtedness, the cost of which to service is greater than the distribution obligations associated with the units issued in connection with the repayment of the indebtedness; • the conversion of subordinated units into common units; • the conversion of units of equal rank with the common units into common units under some circumstances; • issuances of common units under our employee benefit plans; or • the conversion of the general partner interest and the incentive distribution rights into common units as a result of the withdrawal or removal of our general partner. In addition, while any class A subordinated units remain outstanding we can issue equity securities other than common units that contain terms providing for the conversion of those securities into common units upon the receipt of unitholder approval. The terms of the securities may entitle the holders to receive distributions in excess of the amount distributed to each common unit if our unitholders do not approve the conversion by a certain date, thus providing incentive to our unitholders to approve the conversion. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: • our unitholders’ proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; • because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of the common units may decline. Once no class A subordinated units remain outstanding, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders. Our partnership agreement does not give our unitholders the right to approve our issuance of equity securities ranking junior to the common units at any time. Our partnership agreement currently limits the ownership of our partnership interests by individuals or entities that are not U.S. citizens. This restriction could limit the liquidity of our common units. In order to ensure compliance with Jones Act citizenship requirements, the board of directors of our general partner has adopted a requirement that at least 85% of our partnership interests must be held by U.S. citizens. This requirement may have an adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of our common units, because holders will be unable to sell units to non-U.S. citizens. Any purported transfer of common units in violation of these provisions will be ineffective to transfer the common units or any voting, dividend or other rights in respect of the common units. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the 34 value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders’ voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. The partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Our debt levels may limit our flexibility in obtaining additional financing and in pursuing other business opportunities. We have a significant amount of debt. At December 31, 2005, our consolidated indebtedness was $128.0 million, consisting of term loan obligations under our credit facility. In addition, we have capacity to borrow an additional $109.4 million under our credit facility, including $50.0 million under our revolving credit facility. We have the ability to incur additional debt, subject to limitations in our credit facility. Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • we will need a substantial portion of our cash flow to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to unitholders; • our debt level will make us more vulnerable than our competitors with less debt to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; • our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions; and • substantially all of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which increases our vulnerability to interest rate fluctuations. Our ability to service our indebtedness will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our operating results are not sufficient to service our current or future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing distributions, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments and/or capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, or seeking additional equity capital or bankruptcy protection. We may not be able to effect any of these remedies on satisfactory terms, or at all. Our credit facility contains operating and financial restrictions which may restrict our business and financing activities. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our credit facility and any future financing agreements could adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage, expand or pursue our business activities. For example, our credit facility restricts our ability to: • incur or guarantee indebtedness; • change ownership or structure, including consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; • make distributions or repurchase or redeem units; • make capital expenditures in excess of specified levels; • make certain negative pledges and grant certain liens; • sell, transfer, assign or convey assets; • make certain loans and investments; and 35 • enter into a new line of business. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we breach any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our debt agreements, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders’ commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets, and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on such assets. Restrictions in our credit facility limit our ability to pay distributions upon the occurrence of certain events. Our payment of principal and interest on our debt will reduce cash available for distribution on our units. Our credit facility limits our ability to pay distributions upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: • failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; • any loan document or lien securing the credit facility ceases to be effective; • the Hess support agreement terminates or ceases to be effective (other than in accordance with its terms); • breach of certain financial covenants; • failure to observe any other agreement, security instrument, obligation or covenant beyond specified cure periods in certain cases; • default under other indebtedness of our operating company or any of our subsidiaries above specified amounts; • bankruptcy or insolvency events involving us, our general partner or any of our subsidiaries; • failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; • a change of control, as defined in our credit agreement; • a material adverse effect, as defined in our credit agreement, occurs relating to us or our business; and • judgments against us or any of our subsidiaries in excess of certain allowances. Any subsequent refinancing of our current debt or any new debt could have similar restrictions. For more information regarding our debt agreements, please read “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Second Amended and Restated Credit Facility.” We can borrow money under our amended and restated credit facility to pay distributions, which would reduce the amount of revolving credit available to operate our business. Our partnership agreement allows us to make working capital borrowings under our amended and restated credit facility to pay distributions. Accordingly, we can make distributions on all our units even though cash generated by our operations may not be sufficient to pay such distributions. We are required to reduce all working capital borrowings under the credit agreement to zero for a period of at least 15 consecutive days once each 12 month period. Any working capital borrowings by us to make distributions will reduce the amount of working capital borrowings we can make for operating our business. For more information, please read “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Second Amended and Restated Credit Facility.” Costs due our general partner and its affiliates will reduce available cash for distribution to you. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf, which will be determined by our general partner in its sole discretion. These expenses will include all costs incurred by the general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us, including costs for rendering corporate staff and support services to us. All of our employees, including vessel crews, are employees of subsidiaries of our general partner. On an adjusted basis as if our initial public offering and the related transactions had been completed on January 1, 2003, we would have reimbursed our general partner $33.3 million and $25.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. We reimbursed our general partner $37.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2005. 36 The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions to you. You may not have limited liability if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. As a limited partner in a partnership organized under Delaware law, you could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general partner if you participate in the “control” of our business. Our general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of the Partnership, such as its debts and environmental liabilities, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. In addition, Section 17-607 of the Delaware Revised Uniform Limited Partnership Act provides that, under some circumstances, a unitholder may be liable to us for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some of the other states in which we do business. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders so long as the third party satisfies the citizenship requirements of the Jones Act. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the ability of the members of our general partner from transferring their respective membership interests in our general partner to a third party that satisfies the citizenship requirements of the Jones Act. The new members of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers of our general partner. The members of United States Shipping Master LLC, including our executive officers, and their affiliates may engage in activities that compete directly with us. Sterling/US Shipping L.P., the principal member of United States Shipping Master LLC, the other members of United States Shipping Master and their respective partners, affiliates and the funds they manage or may manage, or management, are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Only United States Shipping Master and its controlled affiliates are subject to certain noncompete provisions. In addition, Calvin Chew, Paul Gridley and Jeff Miller, our executive vice president, chairman and chief executive officer and vice president—chartering, respectively, own and operate two barges engaged in the transportation of chemical products. Under their employment agreements, Messrs. Chew, Gridley and Miller are not prohibited from acquiring and operating additional tank barges of less than 15,000 deadweight tons under specified circumstances. Please read “—Risks Inherent in Our Business—We depend on key personnel for the success of our business and some of those persons face conflicts in the allocation of their time to our business,” “Item 11. Executive Compensation—Employment Agreements” and “Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions—Omnibus Agreement—Noncompetition.” The price of our units may fluctuate significantly, and you could lose all or part of your investment. There are only 6,899,968 publicly traded common units. We do not know how liquid the trading market for our common units will continue to be. Additionally, the lack of liquidity may result in wide bid-ask spreads, contribute to significant fluctuations in the market price of the common units and limit the number of investors who are able to buy the common units. The market price of our common units may also be influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • our quarterly distributions; • our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; • loss of a large customer; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • general economic conditions; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units after this offering or changes in financial estimates by analysts; 37 • future sales of our common units; and • the other factors described in these “Risk Factors.” In addition, our stock price will fluctuate with changes in interest rates, as investors compare the yield (as determined by the quarterly distribution) on our units to yields they could achieve in the debt markets. Accordingly, unless we can raise our quarterly cash distribution, our stock price is likely to decline in periods of rising interest rates. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public partnership. We became a publicly traded partnership in November 2004 and have a limited history operating as a public partnership. As a public partnership, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. These new rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and made activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, as a result of becoming a public partnership, we are required to have three independent directors, create additional board committees and adopt policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our public partnership reporting requirements. These new rules and regulations make it more difficult and more expensive for our general partner to obtain director and officer liability insurance and it may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for our general partner to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We incurred approximately $1.8 million of costs in 2005 directly associated with being a publicly traded partnership. Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to entity-level taxation by states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation or if we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in the common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%. Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to you. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to you would be substantially reduced. Thus, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the cash available for distribution and after-tax return to you, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity-level taxation. For example, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to you would be reduced. The partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. We have a subsidiary that will be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate-level income taxes. We will conduct the operations of the Chemical Pioneer through a subsidiary that is organized as a corporation. We may elect to conduct additional operations through this corporate subsidiary in the future. This corporate subsidiary will be subject to corporate-level tax, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to us and, in turn, to you. If the IRS were to 38 successfully assert that this corporation has more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution to you would be further reduced. If the IRS or a state tax authority contests the tax positions we take, the market for our common units may be adversely impacted, and the costs of any contest will be borne by our unitholders and our general partner. We have not requested any ruling from the IRS or any state tax authorities with respect to our treatment as a partnership for tax purposes or any other matter affecting us. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS or a state tax authority may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS or a state tax authority will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and our general partner and thus will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner. You may be required to pay taxes on your share of our income even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us. You will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on your share of our taxable income, whether or not you receive cash distributions from us. You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from your share of our taxable income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected. If you sell your common units, you will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and your tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions to you in excess of the total net taxable income you were allocated for a common unit, which decreased your tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to you if the common unit is sold at a price greater than your tax basis in that common unit, even if the price you receive is less than your original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to you. Tax-exempt entities, regulated investment companies and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), regulated investment companies (known as mutual funds), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Recent legislation treats net income derived from the ownership of certain publicly traded partnerships (including us) as qualifying income to a regulated investment company. However, this legislation is only effective for taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, the date of enactment. For taxable years beginning prior to the date of enactment, very little of our income will be qualifying income to a regulated investment company. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We will treat each purchaser of units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. You will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, you may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with 39 those requirements. We conduct business in California, New Jersey and New York, which impose state income taxes. We may own property or conduct business in other states or foreign countries in the future. It is your responsibility to file all federal, state and local tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 