ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this Annual Report. These risks and uncertainties include the following: Risks Relating to our Business Our near-term success is highly dependent on the success of the TearLab® Osmolarity System, and we cannot be certain that it will be successfully commercialized in the United States. The TearLab Osmolarity System is currently our only product. Our product is currently sold outside of the United States pursuant to CE mark approval; in Canada pursuant to a Health Canada Medical Device License; and in the United States as a result of having received 510(k) approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, to market the TearLab Osmolarity System to those reference and physician operated laboratories with Clinical Laboratory Improvement Act, or CLIA, waiver certifications. Even though the TearLab Osmolarity System has received all regulatory approvals in the United States, it may never be successfully commercialized. If the TearLab Osmolarity System is not as successfully commercialized as expected, we may not be able to generate revenue, become profitable or continue our operations. Any failure of the TearLab Osmolarity System to be successfully commercialized in the United States would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows and could result in a substantial decline in the price of our common stock. Our near-term success is highly dependent on increasing sales of the TearLab Osmolarity System outside the United States, and we cannot be certain that we will successfully increase such sales. Our product is currently sold outside of the United States pursuant to CE mark approval and Health Canada Approval in Canada. Our near-term success is highly dependent on increasing our international sales. We may also be required to register our product with health departments in our foreign market countries. A failure to successfully register in such markets would negatively affect our sales in any such markets. In addition, import taxes are levied on our product in certain foreign markets. These foreign markets include Turkey, Spain, Italy and France. Other countries may adopt taxation codes on imported products. Increases in such taxes or other restrictions on our product could negatively affect our ability to import, distribute and price our product. Our commitment to purchase minimum levels of product from our suppliers may result in the purchase of excess quantities of product if we are not able to successfully commercialize the TearLab Osmolarity System. On August 1, 2011, we entered into a manufacturing and development agreement, or the Manufacturing Agreement, with MiniFAB (Aust) Pty Ltd, or MiniFAB. Pursuant to the terms of the Manufacturing Agreement, MiniFAB will manufacture and supply test cards for us. The Manufacturing Agreement specifies minimum order quantities that will require us to purchase approximately USD $26.1 million (AUD$25.1 million) in test cards from MiniFAB for the years 2013 through the end of 2015. Each year, we must purchase the covered test cards exclusively from MiniFAB until the minimum order quantity for such year has been met. The Manufacturing Agreement has a ten-year initial term and may be terminated by either party if the other party is in breach or becomes insolvent. If terminated for any reason other than a default by MiniFAB, we will be obligated to pay a termination fee based on the cost of products manufactured by MiniFAB, but not yet invoiced, repayment of capital invested by MiniFAB, less depreciation calculated in accordance with Australian accounting standards, and the expected profit to MiniFAB had the remaining minimum order quantities been purchased by us. The usage of test cards purchased under the minimum purchase commitment with MiniFAB is predicated upon significant increases in revenue from the TearLab products as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 and prior periods. If we are not able to commercialize the TearLab® Osmolarity System sufficiently to sell the minimum order quantities required by the MiniFab Agreement, we will be required to purchase test cards that we may be unable to use and that may become obsolete, which would have a potentially adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. -10- Our limited working capital and history of losses have resulted in doubts as to whether we will be able to continue as a going concern. In the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we have prepared our consolidated financial statements on the basis that we would continue as a going concern. However, we have incurred losses in each year since our inception. Our net working capital balance at December 31, 2012 was $9.3 million, which represents a $10.1 million increase in the balance from our working capital deficit of $0.8 million at December 31, 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company raised gross proceeds of $3.4 million from the exercise of warrants and stock options, $12.4 million in an underwritten public offering and $7.9 million in a registered direct financing. Although current levels of cash flows are negative, management believes the Company’s existing cash will be sufficient to cover its operating and other cash demands for at least the next 12 months. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary if we were not able to continue as a going concern. We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $406.8 million. Our losses have resulted primarily from expenses incurred in research and development of our product candidates from the former retina and glaucoma business divisions. We do not know when or if we will successfully commercialize the TearLab Osmolarity System in the United States. As a result, and because of the numerous risks and uncertainties facing us, it is difficult to provide the extent of any future losses or the time required to achieve profitability, if at all. Any failure of our product to become and remain profitable would adversely affect the price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. We have outstanding liabilities, which could adversely affect our ability to adjust our business to respond to competitive pressures and to obtain sufficient funds to satisfy our future research and development needs, and to defend our intellectual property. As of December 31, 2012, our total liabilities were approximately $9.3 million. Our significant liability service requirements could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and may limit our ability to take advantage of potential business opportunities. For example, our high level of liability presents the following risks: · our liabilities increase our vulnerability to economic downturns and adverse competitive and industry conditions and could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to those of our competitors that are less leveraged; · our liability obligations could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry and could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities, borrow money for operations or capital in the future and implement our business strategies; and · our level of liabilities may restrict us from raising additional funds on satisfactory terms to fund working capital, capital expenditures, product development efforts, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances, and other general corporate requirements. If we are at any time unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our liabilites when payment is due, we may be required to attempt to renegotiate the terms of the instruments relating to the liabilities, seek to refinance all or a portion of the liabilities or obtain financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully renegotiate such terms, that any such refinancing would be possible or that any additional financing could be obtained on terms that are favorable or acceptable to us. -11- We may not be able to raise the capital necessary to fund our operations. Since inception, we have funded our operations through debt and equity financings, including the 2009 convertible secured debt financings, the 2010 private placement and registered direct common stock financings and the 2011 private placement financings, the exercise of warrants in March 2012 by warrant holders, the April 2012 public offering financing as well as the July 2012 registered direct financing. As of the date of filing of this quarterly Form 10-K, we estimate that our cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our operating activities and other demands for at least the next 12 months. However, our prospects for obtaining additional financing are uncertain. Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If financing is available, it may not be sufficient for us to continue as a going concern and it may be on terms that adversely affect the interest of our existing stockholders. In addition, future financings could result in significant dilution of existing stockholders and adversely affect the economic interests of existing stockholders. We will face challenges in bringing the TearLab® Osmolarity System to market in the United States and may not succeed in executing our business plan. There are numerous risks and uncertainties inherent in the development of new medical technologies. In addition to our requirement for additional capital, our ability to bring the TearLab Osmolarity System to market in the United States and to execute our business plan successfully is subject to the following risks, among others: · Our clinical trials may not succeed. Clinical testing is expensive and can take longer than originally anticipated. The outcomes of clinical trials are uncertain, and failure can occur at any stage of the testing. We could encounter unexpected problems, which could result in a delay in efforts to complete clinical trials supporting our commercialization efforts. · The TearLab Osmolarity System is rated under a CLIA waiver certification which requires our customers to be certified under the CLIA waiver requirements to be reimbursed under Medicare, including certain parallel state requirements. If our customers are unwilling or unable to comply with such requirements, it could have an adverse effect on their acceptance of and on our ability to market the TearLab Osmolarity System in the United States. · Our suppliers and we will be subject to numerous FDA requirements covering the design, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion and export of the TearLab Osmolarity System and other matters. If our suppliers or we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, the TearLab Osmolarity System could be subject to restrictions or withdrawals from the market and we could become subject to penalties. · Even though we were successful in obtaining the sought-after FDA approvals, we may be unable to commercialize the TearLab Osmolarity System successfully in the United States. Successful commercialization will depend on a number of factors, including, among other things, achieving widespread acceptance of the TearLab Osmolarity System among physicians, establishing adequate sales and marketing capabilities, addressing competition effectively, the ability to obtain and enforce patents to protect proprietary rights from use by would-be competitors, key personnel retention and ensuring sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to support commercialization plans. If we are subject to regulatory enforcement action as a result of our failure to comply with regulatory requirements, our commercial operations would be harmed. While we received the 510(k) clearance and CLIA waiver that we were seeking, we will be subject to significant ongoing regulatory requirements, and if we fail to comply with these requirements, we could be subject to enforcement action by the FDA or state agencies, including: · adverse publicity, warning letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees and civil penalties; · repair, replacement, refunds, recall or seizure of our product; · operating restrictions or partial suspension or total shutdown of production; · delay or refusal of our requests for 510(k) clearance or premarket approval of new products or of new intended uses or modifications to our existing product; · refusal to grant export approval for our products; · withdrawing 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals that have already been granted; and · criminal prosecution. -12- If any of these enforcement actions were to be taken by the government, our business could be harmed. We are required to demonstrate and maintain compliance with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, or the QSR. The QSR is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, control, manufacturing, labeling, quality assurance, packaging, storage and shipping of our products. The FDA must determine that the facilities which manufacture and assemble our products that are intended for sale in the United States, as well as the manufacturing controls and specifications for these products, are compliant with applicable regulatory requirements, including the QSR. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic unannounced inspections. Our facilities have not yet been inspected by the FDA, and we cannot assure you that we will pass any future FDA inspection. Our failure, or the failure of our suppliers, to take satisfactory corrective action in response to an adverse QSR inspection could result in enforcement actions, including a public warning letter, a shutdown of our manufacturing operations, a recall of our product, civil or criminal penalties or other sanctions, which would significantly harm our available inventory and sales and cause our business to suffer. Our patents may not be valid, and we may not be able to obtain and enforce patents to protect our proprietary rights from use by would-be competitors. Patents of other companies could require us to stop using or pay to use required technology. Our owned and licensed patents may not be valid, and we may not be able to obtain and enforce patents and to maintain trade secret protection for our technology. The extent to which we are unable to do so could materially harm our business. We have applied for, and intend to continue to apply for, patents relating to the TearLab® Osmolarity System and related technology and processes. Such applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, and any patents now held or that may be issued may not provide adequate protection from competition. Furthermore, it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us may be challenged successfully. In that event, if we have a preferred competitive position because of any such patents, any preferred position would be lost. If we are unable to secure or to continue to maintain a preferred position, the TearLab Osmolarity System could become subject to competition from the sale of generic products. Patents issued or licensed to us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. The cost of enforcing patent rights against infringers, if such enforcement is required, could be significant and the time demands could interfere with our normal operations. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical technology industries. We could become a party to patent litigation and other proceedings. The cost to us of any patent litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our would-be competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Litigation may also absorb significant management time. Unpatented trade secrets, improvements, confidential know-how and continuing technological innovation are important to our future scientific and commercial success. Although we attempt to, and will continue to attempt to, protect our proprietary information through reliance on trade secret laws and the use of confidentiality agreements with corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants and other appropriate means, these measures may not effectively prevent disclosure of our proprietary information, and, in any event, others may develop independently, or obtain access to, the same or similar information. Certain of our patent rights are licensed to us by third parties. If we fail to comply with the terms of these license agreements, our rights to those patents may be terminated, and we will be unable to conduct our business. It is possible that a court may find us to be infringing upon validly issued patents of third parties. In that event, in addition to the cost of defending the underlying suit for infringement, we may have to pay license fees and/or damages and may be enjoined from conducting certain activities. Obtaining licenses under third-party patents can be costly, and such licenses may not be available at all. -13- We may face future product liability claims. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of therapeutic and diagnostic products entail significant inherent risks of allegations of product liability. Our past use of the RHEO™ System and the components of the SOLX Glaucoma System in clinical trials and the commercial sale of those products may have exposed us to potential liability claims. Our use of the TearLab® Osmolarity System and its commercial sale could also expose us to liability claims. All of such claims might be made directly by patients, health care providers or others selling the products. We carry clinical trials and product liability insurance to cover certain claims that could arise, or that could have arisen, during our clinical trials or during the commercial use of our products. We currently maintain clinical trials and product liability insurance with coverage limits of $2,000,000 in the aggregate annually. Such coverage, and any coverage obtained in the future, may be inadequate to protect us in the event of successful product liability claims, and we may not be able to increase the amount of such insurance coverage or even renew it. A successful product liability claim could materially harm our business. In addition, substantial, complex or extended litigation could result in the incurrence of large expenditures and the diversion of significant resources. We have entered into a number of related party transactions with suppliers, creditors, stockholders, officers and other parties, each of which may have interests which conflict with those of our public stockholders. We have entered into several related party transactions with our suppliers, creditors, stockholders, officers and other parties, each of which may have interests which conflict with those of our public stockholders. If we do not introduce new commercially successful products in a timely manner, our products may become obsolete over time, customers may not buy our products and our revenue and profitability may decline. Demand for our products may change in ways we may not anticipate because of: · evolving customer needs; · the introduction of new products and technologies; and · evolving industry standards. Without the timely introduction of new commercially successful products and enhancements, our products may become obsolete over time, in which case our sales and operating results would suffer. The success of our new product offerings will depend on several factors, including our ability to: · properly identify and anticipate customer needs; · commercialize new products in a cost-effective and timely manner; · manufacture and deliver products in sufficient volumes on time; · obtain and maintain regulatory approval for such new products; · differentiate our offerings from competitors’ offerings; · achieve positive clinical outcomes; and · provide adequate medical and/or consumer education relating to new products. Moreover, innovations generally will require a substantial investment in research and development before we can determine the commercial viability of these innovations and we may not have the financial resources necessary to fund these innovations. In addition, even if we are able to successfully develop enhancements or new generations of our products, these enhancements or new generations of products may not produce revenue in excess of the costs of development and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing customer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. We rely on a single supplier of each of the key components of the TearLab® Osmolarity System and are vulnerable to fluctuations in the availability and price of our suppliers’ products and services. -14- We purchase each of the key components of the TearLab® Osmolarity System from single third-party suppliers. Our supplier may not provide the components or other products needed by us in the quantities requested, in a timely manner or at a price we are willing to pay. In the event we were unable to renew our agreements with our supplier or they were to become unable or unwilling to continue to provide important components in the required volumes and quality levels or in a timely manner, or if regulations affecting the components were to change, we would be required to identify and obtain acceptable replacement supply sources. We may not be able to obtain alternative suppliers or vendors on a timely basis, or at all, which could disrupt or delay, or halt altogether, our ability to manufacture or deliver the TearLab Osmolarity System. If any of these events should occur, our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We face intense competition, and our failure to compete effectively could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face intense competition in the markets for ophthalmic products and these markets are subject to rapid and significant technological change. Although we have no direct competitors, we have numerous potential competitors in the United States and abroad. We face potential competition from industry participants marketing conventional technologies for the measurement of osmolarity and other in-lab testing technologies, and commercially available methods, such as the Schirmer Test and ocular surface staining. Many of our potential competitors have substantially more resources and a greater marketing scale than we do. If we are unable to develop and produce or market our products to effectively compete against our competitors, our operating results will materially suffer. If we lose key personnel, or we are unable to attract and retain highly qualified personnel on a cost-effective basis, it would be more difficult for us to manage our existing business operations and to identify and pursue new growth opportunities. Our success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, clinical, manufacturing and management personnel. In addition, any difficulties retaining key personnel or managing this growth could disrupt our operations. Future growth will require us to continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, and to continue to recruit, train and retain, additional qualified personnel, which may impose a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. The competition for qualified personnel in the medical technology field is intense. We are highly dependent on our continued ability to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel. Due to our limited resources, we may not be able to effectively recruit, train and retain additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to retain key personnel or manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to implement our business plan. Furthermore, we have not entered into non-competition agreements with our key employees. In addition, we do not maintain “key person” life insurance on any of our officers, employees or consultants. The loss of the services of existing personnel, the failure to recruit additional key scientific, technical and managerial personnel in a timely manner, and the loss of our employees to our competitors would harm our research and development programs and our business. If we fail to establish and maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, which would adversely affect our consolidated operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Failure on our part to maintain effective internal financial and accounting controls would cause our financial reporting to be unreliable, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows, and could cause the trading price of our common stock to fall dramatically. Maintaining proper and effective internal controls will require substantial management time and attention and may result in our incurring substantial incremental expenses, including with respect to increasing the breadth and depth of our finance organization to ensure that we have personnel with the appropriate qualifications and training in certain key accounting roles and adherence to certain control disciplines within the accounting and reporting function. Any failure in internal controls or any errors or delays in our financial reporting would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and could have a substantial adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. -15- Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our management does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Our management has identified control deficiencies in the past and may identify additional deficiencies in the future. We cannot be certain that the actions we are taking to improve our internal controls over financial reporting will be sufficient or that any changes processes and procedures can be completed in a timely manner. In future periods, if the process required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 reveals material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, the correction of any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies could require additional remedial measures which could be costly and time-consuming. In addition, we may be unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis. Any of the foregoing could cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to finance our operations and growth. The trading price of our common stock may be volatile. The market prices for, and the trading volumes of, securities of medical device companies, such as ours, have been historically volatile. The market has experienced, from time to time, significant price and volume fluctuations unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, including: · the results of pre-clinical testing and clinical trials by us, our collaborators and/or our competitors; · technological innovations or new diagnostic products; · governmental regulations; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights; · litigation; · public concern regarding the safety of products developed by us or others; · comments by securities analysts; · the issuance of additional shares to obtain financing or for acquisitions; · general market conditions in our industry or in the economy as a whole; and · political instability, natural disasters, war and/or events of terrorism. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Because we do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock, stockholders will benefit from an investment in our common stock only if it appreciates in value. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock and have no present intention to pay any dividends in the future. We are not profitable and may not earn sufficient revenues to meet all operating cash needs for at least several years, if at all. As a result, we intend to use all available cash and liquid assets in the development of our business. Any future determination about the payment of dividends will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our earnings, if any, our capital requirements, our operating and financial conditions and on such other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend upon any future appreciation in its value. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. -16- Warrant holders will not be entitled to any of the rights of common stockholders, but will be subject to all changes made with respect thereto. If you hold warrants, you will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on our common stock), but you will be subject to all changes affecting our common stock. You will have rights with respect to our common stock only if you receive our common stock upon exercise of the warrants and only as of the date when you become a record owner of the shares of our common stock upon such exercise. For example, if an amendment is proposed to our charter or bylaws requiring stockholder approval and the record date for determining the stockholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to the date you are deemed to be the owner of the shares of our common stock due upon exercise of your warrants, you will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although you will nevertheless be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences or special rights of our common stock. We can issue shares of preferred stock that may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with designations, rights, and preferences determined from time to time by our board of directors. Accordingly, our board of directors is empowered, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with dividend, liquidation, conversion, voting or other rights superior to those of holders of our common stock. For example, an issuance of shares of preferred stock could: · adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock; · make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of us; · discourage bids for our common stock at a premium; · limit or eliminate any payments that the holders of our common stock could expect to receive upon our liquidation; or · otherwise adversely affect the market price or our common stock. 