ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we consider immaterial based on information currently available to us may also materially adversely affect us. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We incurred a net loss of $4.625 million and $651 thousand for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Our future performance is difficult to evaluate because we have a limited operating history. Our operations commenced with our acquisition of certain assets of TOP as of January 1, 2004 and expanded with our acquisition of certain assets of BPE effective August 1, 2004. In addition, we have recently expanded into the exploration and production business. As a result, we have little historical financial and operating information available to help you evaluate our performance or an investment in our common stock. To fund our future growth we will require additional capital, which may not be available or may only be available on unfavorable terms. During the first quarter of 2006, we raised $21.965 million, before costs, by issuing convertible subordinated notes. We anticipate that this capital will be adequate for the current calendar year. Our future capital requirements depend on many factors, including development and acquisition opportunities, the availability of debt financing and the cash flow from our operations. To the extent that the funds available are insufficient to meet future capital requirements, we may need to reduce our development activity. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. If we cannot obtain adequate capital on favorable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our convertible subordinated notes include interest accruing at ten percent per annum. Our new debt arrangements, as referenced above, include quarterly interest payments of approximately $550 thousand. We may not be able to fully service these interest payments in the future. Our convertible subordinated notes may not be converted to our common shares. If the recently issued notes are not converted to our common stock before or at maturity during the third quarter of 2008, we will have to refinance this debt. We may not be able to refinance these notes and this could adversely affect our financial position and future operations. Our convertible subordinated notes are secured by certain gas gathering assets. In the event of our default in respect to these notes, we could lose control of these assets. Should this occur, our future operating results, financial condition and performance could be adversely affected. Restrictions in credit agreements may prevent us from engaging in some beneficial transactions. As we expand and require capital, we intend to enter into credit agreements with financial institutions to fund a portion of the capital requirements. To obtain funds under credit agreements we may be required to accept operating restrictions which would impair or prevent us from future transactions we deem to be beneficial for our future growth. 8 We depend on our chief executive and chief operating officers for critical management decisions and industry contacts. We do not have employment agreements with our chief executive officer and chief operating officer and do not carry key person insurance on their lives. The loss of the services of either of these executive officers, through incapacity or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business and would require us to seek and retain other qualified personnel. Competition for experienced technical personnel may negatively impact our operations. Our exploratory and development drilling success depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain experienced professional personnel. The loss of any key executives or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operations. As we continue to grow our asset base and the scope of our operations, our future profitability will depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, particularly individuals with a strong background in geology, geophysics, engineering and operations. A significant decrease in the supply of natural gas from our gas gathering customers could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. Investments by our gas gathering customers in the maintenance of existing wells and the further development of their reserves will affect their production rates and the volume of gas we gather. Drilling activity generally decreases as gas prices decrease. We have no control over our customers’ level of drilling activity, the amount of reserves underlying their wells and the rate at which their production from a well will decline. Drilling activity of our customers is affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by our key customers could materially affect our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2005, one of our customers, Pennaco Energy, Inc., accounted for approximately 54% of our 2005 revenue. No other customers exceed 10% of our revenue. Some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may be inadequately insured. Our operations, both gathering and processing and exploration and production, are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. These events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in our operations. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If we were to incur a significant liability for which we were not fully insured, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Growing our business by constructing new gathering systems, or expanding existing ones, subjects us to construction and other risks. We plan to grow our business, in part, by constructing new gathering systems and by expanding existing ones. We have no material significant commitments for new construction or expansion projects as of the date of this report. The construction of a new gathering system or the expansion of an existing gathering system, by adding compressor stations or by adding a second gathering line along an existing 9 gathering line, involves numerous regulatory, environmental, political and legal uncertainties, most of which are beyond our control. These projects may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost. In addition, our revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds on a particular project. For instance, if we build a new gathering system, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive a material increase in revenue until after completion of the project. This could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and gas industry, which is significantly affected by volatile energy prices. Our business depends on the level of activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production in markets worldwide. Oil and gas prices, market expectations of potential changes in these prices and a variety of political and economic and weather-related factors significantly affect this level of activity. Oil and gas prices are extremely volatile and are affected by numerous factors, including: · worldwide demand for oil and gas; · the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, commonly called “OPEC,” to set and maintain production levels and pricing; · the level of production in non-OPEC countries; · the policies of the various governments regarding exploration and development of their oil and gas reserves; · local weather; · fluctuating pipeline takeaway capacity; · advances in exploration and development technology; · the political environment surrounding the production of oil and gas; · level of consumer product demand; and · the price and availability of alternative fuels. Future oil and gas price declines or unsuccessful exploration efforts may result in write-downs of our exploration and production asset carrying values. We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. All property acquisition costs and costs of exploratory and development wells are capitalized when incurred, pending the determination of whether proved reserves have been discovered. If proved reserves are not discovered with an exploratory well, the costs of drilling the well are expensed. The capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties, on a field basis, cannot exceed the estimated future net cash flows of that field. If net capitalized costs exceed future net revenues, we must write down the costs of each such field to our estimate of fair market value. Unproved properties are evaluated at the lower of cost or fair market value. Accordingly, a significant decline in oil or gas prices or unsuccessful exploration efforts could cause a future write-down of capitalized costs. We review the carrying value of our properties quarterly based on prices in effect as of the end of each quarter or as of the time of reporting our results. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and gas properties cannot be reversed at a later date even if oil or gas prices increase. 10 Substantial capital is required to find, acquire, develop and replace our reserves. We need to make substantial capital expenditures to find, acquire, develop and replace oil and natural gas reserves. Future cash flows and the availability of financing are subject to a number of factors, such as the level of production from existing wells, our success in locating and producing new reserves and prices of oil and natural gas. If oil or gas prices decrease or we encounter operating difficulties that result in our cash flows from operations being less than expected, we may have to reduce our capital expenditures unless we can raise additional funds through debt or equity financing. Debt or equity financing may not always be available to us in sufficient amounts or on acceptable terms. If our revenues were to decrease due to lower oil or gas prices, decreased production or other reasons, and if we could not obtain capital through debt or equity financing arrangements, our ability to execute our development plans, replace our reserves or maintain production levels could be greatly limited. Future oil and gas price declines may affect our ability to raise capital. If oil and gas prices decrease there will be a corresponding negative impact on the value of our reserves. This could negatively affect our ability to borrow funds or raise capital in the equity markets. Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. Oil and gas drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain, and oil and gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · unexpected drilling conditions; · title problems; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · adverse weather conditions; · compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; · shortages or delays in the availability of or increases in the cost of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment; and · lack of availability of experienced drilling crews. Competition in our industry is intense, and many of our competitors have greater financial and technical resources than we do. We face intense competition from major oil companies, independent oil and gas exploration and production companies, financial buyers and institutional and individual investors who are actively seeking oil and gas properties throughout the world, along with the equipment, expertise, labor and materials required to operate oil and gas properties. Many of our competitors have financial and technical resources vastly exceeding those available to us, and many oil and gas properties are sold in a competitive bidding process in which our competitors may be able to pay more for development prospects and productive properties or in which our competitors have technological information or expertise to evaluate and successfully bid for the properties that is not available to us. In addition, shortages of equipment, labor or materials as a result of intense competition may result in increased costs or the inability to obtain those 11 resources as needed. We may not be successful in acquiring and developing profitable properties in the face of this competition. The actual quantities and present values of our proved oil and gas reserves may be less than we have estimated. This Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved oil and gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues from those reserves. Reserve estimates are based on various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. The process of estimating reserves is complex. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. These estimates are dependent on many variables and, therefore, changes often occur as these variables evolve and commodity prices fluctuate. As a result, these estimates are inherently imprecise. As of December 31, 2005, all of our estimated proved reserves (by volume) were proved developed producing. Management has based the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on prices and costs as of the date of the estimate, in accordance with SEC requirements, whereas actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Our revenue projections include assumptions on de-watering time for our coal-bed methane wells in the Powder River Basin in Wyoming. These estimated de-watering times may be longer than we expect. Our future period revenue and financial position could be adversely affected if we experience delays in selling natural gas due to longer than expected de-watering times. We may be required to rescind the sale of up to $1.233 million of stock if our private placement of Series C preferred stock is deemed to have violated federal and state securities laws. In December 2004, we received $1.233 million from the sale of 411,000 shares of Series C convertible preferred stock. We paid no cash or other commissions or finders’ fees in connection with this offering. This placement might not have been eligible for an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933. In the absence of such an exemption, investors could bring suit against us to rescind their stock purchases, in which event we could be liable for rescission payments to these investors of up to $1.233 million exclusive of interest and costs. As of December 31, 2005, 371,000 Series C convertible preferred shares converted to common shares and 40,000 Series C convertible shares remain outstanding. During the first quarter of 2006 an additional 30,000 Series C convertible shares converted to common shares. Concentration of share ownership among our existing executive officers, Directors and principal stockholders may prevent others from influencing significant corporate decisions. At December 31, 2005, our executive officers, Directors and principal stockholders beneficially own approximately 25.2% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of Directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets and other corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership could be disadvantageous to other stockholders with interests different from those of our officers, Directors and principal stockholders. In 2005, the Company was advised by its auditor of material weaknesses in the Company’s internal controls and procedures, the correction of which will result in increased cost to the Company. Our independent registered public accounting firm has advised our management and Board of Directors that there were material weaknesses in our internal controls and procedures during the year ended December 31, 2005. Management believes that until these material weaknesses are corrected, a 12 potential misapplication of generally accepted accounting principles or potential accounting error in our financial statements could occur. Enhancing our internal controls to correct the material weaknesses has and will result in increased costs to us. The identified material weaknesses relate to significant deficiencies were identified in our internal control over financial reporting relating to the preparation and review of financial statements and disclosures, identification and resolution of complex accounting issues, segregation of duties, accounting policies and procedures, information technology systems, and revenue recognition and billing. Management and Ehrhardt Keefe Steiner & Hoffman PC have determined that these significant deficiencies, in the aggregate, constitute a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. Specifically, our staffing levels were inadequate to facilitate the design, implementation and maintenance of an effective system of internal control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 