Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We engage in construction and real estate activities, which involve a high degree of risk. Our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows may be impacted by a number of factors. A discussion of the risks associated with these factors is included below. Our operations require significant capital and our continuing operations and future growth depends on the availability of construction, acquisition and development loans, which may not to be available at the time it is needed or at favorable terms. The real estate development industry is capital intensive and requires significant expenditures for operations, land purchases, land development and construction as well as potential acquisitions of other homebuilders or developers. In order to maintain our operations, we will need to obtain additional financing. These funds can be generated through public or private debt or equity financings, operating cash flow, additional bank borrowings or from strategic alliances or joint ventures. In light of the current economic climate we may not be successful in obtaining additional funds in a timely manner, on favorable terms or at all. Moreover, certain of our bank financing agreements contain provisions that limit the type and amount of debt we may incur in the future without our lenders’ consent. In addition, to finance projects, we have historically utilized construction, acquisition and development loans. These credit facilities tend to be project-oriented and generally have variable rates and require significant management time to administer. Further, this type of financing is typically characterized by short-term loans, which are subject to call. The availability of borrowed funds, especially for land acquisition and construction financing, has been greatly reduced, and lenders may require us to invest increased amounts of equity in a project in connection with both new loans and the extension of existing loans. Furthermore, if financial institutions discontinue providing these facilities to us, we would lose our primary source of financing our operations or the cost of retaining or replacing these credit facilities could increase dramatically. If we do not have access to additional capital or funds to continue or operations or grow our business, we may be required to delay, scale back or abandon some or all of our operating strategies or reduce capital expenditures and the size of our operations. As a result, such an inability to access additional capital would likely cause us to experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to sell homes and, accordingly, our results of operations, will be affected by the availability of mortgage financing to potential home buyers. Most home buyers finance their purchase of a new home through third-party mortgage financing. As a result, residential real estate demand is adversely affected by increases in interest rates and decreases in the availability of consumer mortgage financing. Increased monthly mortgage costs and the unavailability of financing to potential home buyers have depressed the market for new homes. For instance, recent initiatives to tighten underwriting standards have made mortgage financing more difficult to obtain for some of our entry-level home buyers, which has led to decreased demand from these buyers. Even if potential home buyers do not experience difficulty securing mortgage financing for their purchase of a new home, increases in interest rates and decreased mortgage availability or significant alterations to mortgage product types could make it harder for them to sell their existing homes. This could continue to adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Fluctuations in market conditions may affect our ability to sell our land and home inventories at expected prices, if at all, which could adversely affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows. We are subject to the potential for significant fluctuations in the market value of our land and home inventories. We must constantly locate and acquire new tracts of undeveloped and developed land if we are to support growth in our home building operations. There is a lag between the time we acquire control of undeveloped land or developed home sites and the time that we can bring communities built on that land to market. This lag time varies from site to site as it is impossible to predict with any certainty the length of time it will take to obtain governmental approvals and building permits. The risk of owning undeveloped land, developed land and homes can be substantial. The market value of undeveloped land, buildable lots and housing inventories can fluctuate significantly as a result of changing economic and market conditions. Inventory carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses in a poorly performing development or market. Material write-downs of the estimated value of our land and home inventories could occur if market conditions deteriorate or if we purchase land or build home inventories at higher prices during stronger economic periods and the value of those land or home inventories subsequently declines during weaker economic periods. We could also be forced to sell homes, land or lots for prices that generate lower profit than we anticipated, or at a loss, and may not be able to dispose of an investment in a timely manner when we find dispositions advantageous or necessary. Furthermore, a continued decline in the market value of our land or home inventories may give rise to additional impairments of our inventory and write-offs of contract deposits and feasibility cost, which may result in a breach of financial covenants contained in one or more of our credit facilities, which could cause a default under those credit facilities. Defaults in these credit facilities are often times the responsibility of Comstock, as Comstock is the guarantor of most of its subsidiary’s debts. We evaluated all of our projects to determine if recorded carrying amounts were recoverable by evaluating discount rates, sales prices, absorption and our analysis of the best approach to marketing our projects for sale. This evaluation resulted in an aggregate 2012 impairment charge of $2.4 million. Impairment charges are recorded as a reduction in our capitalized costs. The impairment charge was calculated based on the estimated fair value less costs to sell under the Company’s revised disposition strategy. See real estate held for development and sale Note 4 within the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 6 Table of Contents Our ability to use our Net Operating Losses (“NOLs”) and, in certain circumstances, future built-in losses and depreciation deductions can be negatively affected if there is an “ownership change” as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. We currently have approximately $116 million in federal and state NOLs with a potential value of up to approximately $45 million in tax savings. These deferred tax assets are currently fully reserved. If unused, these NOLs will begin expiring in 2028. Under Internal Revenue Code Section 382 rules, if a change of ownership is triggered, our NOL asset and possibly certain other deferred tax assets may be impaired. We estimate that as of December 31, 2012, the cumulative shift in the Company’s stock would not cause an inability to utilize any of our NOL asset. The Company’s ability to use its NOLs (and in certain circumstances, future built-in losses and depreciation deductions) can be negatively affected if there is an “ownership change” as defined under Section 382. In general, an ownership change occurs whenever there is a shift in ownership by more than 50 percentage points by one or more 5% shareholders over a specified time period (generally three years). Given Section 382’s broad definition, an ownership change could be the unintended consequence of otherwise normal market trading in the Company’s stock that is outside of the Company’s control. In an effort to preserve the availability of these NOLs, Comstock adopted a Section 382 stockholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”). The Rights Plan was adopted to reduce the likelihood of such an unintended “ownership change” and thus assist in preserving the value of these tax benefits. Similar plans have been adopted by a number of companies holding similar significant tax assets over the past several years. This plan was submitted to a vote of the Company’s shareholders on June 17, 2011, and the plan was approved at that meeting. Home prices and sales activities in the Washington, D.C. geographic market have a large impact on our results of operations because we conduct substantially all of our business in this market. We currently develop and sell homes exclusively in the Washington, D.C. market; consequently home prices and sales activities in the Washington, D.C. geographic market have a large impact on our results of operations. Although demand in this area historically has been strong, the historical slowdown in residential real estate demand and reduced availability of consumer mortgage financing have reduced the likelihood of consumers seeking to purchase new homes, which has had and will likely continue to have a negative impact on the pace at which we receive orders for our new homes. As a result of the foregoing and general economic conditions, potential customers may be less willing or able to buy our homes, or we may take longer or incur more costs to build them. We may not be able to recapture increased costs by raising prices in many cases because of market conditions or because we fix our prices in advance of delivery by signing home sales contracts. We may be unable to change the mix of our homes or our offerings or the affordability of our homes to maintain our margins or satisfactorily address changing market conditions in other ways. Our limited geographic diversity means that adverse general economic, weather or other conditions in this market could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows or our ability to grow our business. Because our business depends on the acquisition of new land, the potential limitations on the supply of land could reduce our revenues or negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. We experience competition for available land and developed home sites in the Washington, D.C. market. We have experienced competition for home sites from other, better capitalized, home builders. Our ability to continue our home building activities over the long term depends upon our ability to locate and acquire suitable parcels of land or developed home sites to support our home building operations. If competition for land increases, the cost of acquiring it may rise, and the availability of suitable parcels at acceptable prices may decline. Any need for increased pricing could increase the rate at which consumer demand for our homes declines and, consequently, reduce the number of homes we sell and lead to a decrease in our revenues, earnings and cash flows. Our business is subject to governmental regulations that may delay, increase the cost of, prohibit or severely restrict our development and home building projects and reduce our revenues and cash flows. We are subject to extensive and complex laws and regulations that affect the land development and home building process, including laws and regulations related to zoning, permitted land uses, levels of density (number of dwelling units per acre), building design, access to water and other utilities, water and waste disposal and use of open spaces. In addition, we and our subcontractors are subject to laws and regulations relating to worker health and safety. We also are subject to a variety of local, state and federal laws and regulations concerning the protection of health and the environment. In some of our markets, we are required to pay environmental impact fees, use energy saving construction materials and give commitments to provide certain infrastructure such as roads and sewage systems. We are also subject to real estate taxes and other local government fees on real estate purchases. We must also obtain permits and approvals from local authorities to complete residential development or home construction. The laws and regulations under which we and our subcontractors operate, and our and their obligations to comply with them, may result in delays in construction and development, cause us to incur substantial compliance and other increased costs, and prohibit or severely restrict development and home building activity in certain areas in which we operate. If we are unable to continue to develop communities and build and deliver homes as a result of these restrictions or if our compliance costs increase substantially, our revenues, earnings and cash flows may be reduced. 7 Table of Contents Cities and counties in which we operate have adopted, or may adopt, slow or no-growth initiatives that would reduce our ability to build and sell homes in these areas and could adversely affect our revenues, earnings and cash flows. From time to time, certain cities and counties in which we operate have approved, and others in which we operate may approve, various “slow-growth” or “no-growth” initiatives and other similar ballot measures. Such initiatives restrict development within localities by, for example, limiting the number of building permits available in a given year. Approval of slow- or no-growth measures could reduce our ability to acquire land, obtain building permits and build and sell homes in the affected markets and could create additional costs and administration requirements, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows. Increased regulation in the housing industry increases the time required to obtain the necessary approvals to begin construction and has prolonged the time between the initial acquisition of land or land options and the commencement and completion of construction. These delays increase our costs, decrease our profitability and increase the risks associated with the land inventories we maintain. Municipalities may restrict or place moratoriums on the availability of utilities, such as water and sewer taps. If municipalities in which we operate take actions like these, it could have an adverse effect on our business by causing delays, increasing our costs or limiting our ability to build in those municipalities. This, in turn, could reduce the number of homes we sell and decrease our revenues, earnings and cash flows. The competitive conditions in the home building industry could increase our costs, reduce our revenues and earnings and otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The home building industry is highly competitive and fragmented. We compete with a number of national, regional and local builders for customers, undeveloped land and home sites, raw materials and labor. For example, in the Washington, D.C. market, we compete against multiple publicly-traded national home builders, and many privately-owned regional and local home builders. We do not compete against all of the builders in all of our product types or submarkets, as some builders focus on particular types of projects within those markets, such as large estate homes, that are not in competition with our projects. We compete primarily on the basis of price, location, design, quality, service and reputation. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources, more established market positions and better opportunities for land and home site acquisitions than we do and have greater amounts of unrestricted cash resources on hand, lower costs of capital, labor and material than us. The competitive conditions in the home building industry could, among other things: • make it difficult for us to acquire suitable land or home sites in desirable locations at acceptable prices and terms, which could adversely affect our ability to build homes; • require us to increase selling commissions and other incentives, which could reduce our profit margins; • result in delays in construction if we experience delays in procuring materials or hiring trades people or laborers; • result in lower sales volume and revenues; and • increase our costs and reduce our earnings. We also compete with sales of existing homes and condominiums, foreclosure sales of existing homes and condominiums and available rental housing. A continued oversupply of competitively priced resale, foreclosure or rental homes in our markets could adversely affect our ability to sell homes profitably. We are dependent on the services of certain key employees, and the loss of their services could harm our business. Our success largely depends on the continuing services of certain key employees, including Christopher Clemente, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Gregory Benson, our Chief Operating Officer; Jubal Thompson, our General Counsel and Secretary; and Joseph Squeri, our Chief Financial Officer. Our continued success also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We believe that Messrs. Clemente, Benson, Thompson and Squeri each possess valuable industry knowledge, experience and leadership abilities that would be difficult in the short term to replicate. The loss of these or other key employees could harm our operations, business plans and cash flows. A significant portion of our business plan involves and may continue to involve mixed-use developments and high-rise projects with which we have less experience. We are actively involved in the construction and development of mixed-use and high-rise residential projects. Our experience is largely based on smaller wood-framed structures that are less complex than high-rise construction or the development of mixed-use projects. A mixed-use project is one that integrates residential and non-residential uses in the same structure or in close proximity to each other, on the same land. As we continue to expand into these new product types, we expect to encounter operating, marketing, customer service, warranty and management challenges with which we have less familiarity. We had previously expanded our management team to include individuals with significant experience in this type of real estate development but then were forced to furlough some of them as we downsized our operation. If we are unable to successfully manage the challenges of this portion of our business, we may incur additional costs and our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents If we experience shortages of labor or supplies or other circumstances beyond our control, there could be delays or increased costs in developing our projects, which would adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. We, from time to time, may be affected by circumstances beyond our control, including: • work stoppages, labor disputes and shortages of qualified trades people, such as carpenters, roofers, electricians and plumbers; • lack of availability of adequate utility infrastructure and services; • Increases in transportation cost for delivery of materials; • our need to rely on local subcontractors who may not be adequately capitalized or insured; and • shortages or fluctuations in prices of building materials. These difficulties have caused and likely will cause unexpected construction delays and short-term increases in construction costs. In an attempt to protect the margins on our projects, we often purchase certain building materials with commitments that lock in the prices of these materials for 90 to 120 days or more. However, once the supply of building materials subject to these commitments is exhausted, we are again subject to market fluctuations and shortages. We may not be able to recover unexpected increases in construction or materials costs by raising our home prices because, typically, the price of each home is established at the time a customer executes a home sale contract. Furthermore, sustained increases in construction costs may, over time, erode our profit margins and may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We depend on the availability and skill of subcontractors and their willingness to work with us. Substantially all of our construction work is done by subcontractors with us acting as the general contractor or by subcontractors working for a general contractor we select for a particular project. Accordingly, the timing and quality of our construction depends on the availability and skill of those subcontractors. We do not have long-term contractual commitments with subcontractors or suppliers. Although we believe that our relationships with our suppliers and subcontractors are good, we cannot assure that skilled subcontractors will continue to be available at reasonable rates and in the areas in which we conduct our operations. The inability to contract with skilled subcontractors or general contractors at reasonable costs on a timely basis could limit our ability to build and deliver homes and could erode our profit margins and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Recent cash flow and credit facility limitations have forced us to negotiate settlements with our vendors at less than the entire amounts owed. This may result in vendor hesitation to work with us on future projects. Construction defect and product liability litigation and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business may be costly or negatively impact sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our home building business is subject to construction defect and product liability claims arising in the ordinary course of business. These claims are common in the home building industry and can be costly. Among the claims for which developers and builders have financial exposure are property damage, environmental claims and bodily injury claims and latent defects that may not materialize for an extended period of time. Damages awarded under these suits may include the costs of remediation, loss of property and health-related bodily injury. In response to increased litigation, insurance underwriters have attempted to limit their risk by excluding coverage for certain claims associated with environmental conditions, pollution and product and workmanship defects. As a developer and a home builder, we may be at risk of loss for mold-related property, bodily injury and other claims in amounts that exceed available limits on our comprehensive general liability policies and those of our subcontractors. In addition, the costs of insuring against construction defect and product liability claims are high and the amount of coverage offered by insurance companies is limited. Uninsured construction defect, product liability and similar claims, claims in excess of the limits under our insurance policies, defense costs and the costs of obtaining insurance to cover such claims could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows. Increased insurance risk could negatively affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. Insurance and surety companies have reassessed many aspects of their business and, as a result, may take actions that could negatively affect our business. These actions could include increasing insurance premiums, requiring higher self-insured retentions and deductibles, requiring additional collateral on surety bonds, reducing limits, restricting coverage’s, imposing exclusions, and refusing to underwrite certain risks and classes of business. Any of these actions may adversely affect our ability to obtain appropriate insurance coverage at reasonable costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, coverage for certain types of claims, such as claims relating to mold, is generally unavailable. Further, we rely on surety bonds, typically provided by insurance companies, as a means of limiting the amount of capital utilized in connection with the public improvement sureties that we are required to post with governmental authorities in connection with land development and construction activities. The cost of obtaining these surety bonds is, from time to time, unpredictable and these surety bonds may be unavailable to us for new projects. These factors can delay or prohibit commencement of development projects and adversely affect revenue, earnings and cash flows. 9 Table of Contents We are subject to warranty claims arising in the ordinary course of business that could be costly. We provide service warranties on our homes for a period of one year or more post closing and provide warranties on occasion as required by applicable statutory requirements for extended periods. We self-insure our warranties from time to time and reserve an amount we believe will be sufficient to satisfy any warranty claims on homes we sell and periodically purchase insurance related coverage to cover the costs associated with potential claims. Additionally, we also attempt to pass much of the risk associated with potential defects in materials and workmanship on to the subcontractors performing the work and the suppliers and manufacturers of the materials and their insurance carriers. In such cases, we still may incur unanticipated costs if a subcontractor, supplier, manufacturer or its insurance carrier fails to honor its obligations regarding the work or materials it supplies to our projects. If the amount of actual claims materially exceeds our aggregate warranty reserves, any available insurance coverage and/or the amounts we can recover from our subcontractors and suppliers, our operating results and cash flows would be adversely affected. Our business, results of operations and financial condition may be affected by adverse weather conditions or natural disasters. Adverse weather conditions, such as extended periods of rain, snow or cold temperatures, and natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and fires, can delay completion and sale of homes, damage partially complete or other unsold homes in our inventory and/or decrease the demand for homes or increase the cost of building homes. To the extent that natural disasters or adverse weather events occur, our business and results may be adversely affected. To the extent our insurance is not adequate to cover business interruption losses or repair costs resulting from these events, our results of operations and financial conditions may be adversely affected. We are subject to certain environmental laws and the cost of compliance could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. As a current or previous owner or operator of real property, we may be liable under federal, state, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in the properties or in the proximity of the properties we develop. These laws often impose liability whether or not we knew of, or were responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or toxic substances. The cost of investigating, remediating or removing such hazardous or toxic substances may be substantial. The presence of any such substance, or the failure promptly to remediate any such substance, may adversely affect our ability to sell the property, to use the property for our intended purpose, or to borrow funds using the property as collateral. In addition, the construction process involves the use of hazardous and toxic materials. We could be held liable under environmental laws for the costs of removal or remediation of such materials. In addition, our existing credit facilities also restrict our access to the loan proceeds if the properties that are used to collateralize the loans are contaminated by hazardous substances and require us to indemnify the bank against losses resulting from such occurrence for significant periods of time, even after the loan is fully repaid. Our Eclipse project is part of a larger development located at Potomac Yard in Northern Virginia. Potomac Yard was formerly part of a railroad switching yard contaminated as a result of rail-related activities. Remediation of the property was conducted under supervision of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA, in coordination with state and local authorities. In 1998, federal, state and local government agencies authorized redevelopment of the property. Our development at the project was consistent with those authorizations. Although concentrations of contaminants remain on the property under the EPA-approved remediation work plan, the EPA has determined that they do not present an unacceptable risk to human health or the environment. However, the EPA’s determination does not preclude private lawsuits and it is possible that we could incur costs to defend against any claims that may be brought in the future relating to any such contaminants. If we are not able to develop our communities successfully, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Before a community generates any revenues, material expenditures are required to acquire land, to obtain development approvals and to construct significant portions of project infrastructure, amenities, model homes and sales facilities. It can take a year or more for a community development to achieve cumulative positive cash flow. Our inability to develop and market our communities successfully and to generate positive cash flows from these operations in a timely manner would have a material adverse effect on our ability to service our debt and to meet our working capital requirements. Our operating results, including revenue and net income, have varied over time due to a number of conditions. If we are unable to successfully manage these conditions or factors, our operating results may continue to vary and may also suffer. The homebuilding industry is cyclical and we expect to experience variability in our revenues and net income. The volume of sales contracts and closings typically varies from month to month and from quarter to quarter depending on several factors, including the stages of development of our projects, the uncertain timing and cost of real estate closings, weather and other factors beyond our control. The homebuilding industry is cyclical. In the early stages of a project’s development, we incur significant start-up costs associated with, among other things, project design, land acquisition and development, construction and marketing expenses. Since revenues from sales of properties are generally recognized only upon the transfer of title at the closing of a sale, no revenue is recognized during the early stages of a project unless land parcels or residential home sites are sold to other developers. Periodic sales of properties may be insufficient to fund operating expenses. Further, if sales and other revenues are not adequate to cover operating expenses, we will be required to seek sources of additional operating funds. Accordingly, our financial results will vary from community to community and from time to time. 10 Table of Contents Acts of war or terrorism may seriously harm our business. Acts of war, any outbreak or escalation of hostilities between the United States and any foreign power or acts of terrorism, may cause disruption to the U.S. economy, or the Washington, D.C. metro area, cause shortages of building materials, increase costs associated with obtaining building materials, result in building code changes that could increase costs of construction, affect job growth and consumer confidence, or cause economic changes that we cannot anticipate, all of which could reduce demand for our homes and adversely impact our revenues, earnings and cash flows. We do not own the Comstock brand or trademark, but use the brand and trademark pursuant to the terms of a perpetual license granted by Christopher Clemente, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Christopher Clemente, has licensed his ownership interest in the “Comstock” brand and trademark to us in perpetuity and free of charge. We do not own the brand or the trademark and are not in a position to be able to adequately protect it against infringement from third parties. Additionally, Mr. Clemente has retained the right to continue using the “Comstock” brand and trademark individually and through his affiliates, including real estate development projects in our current or future markets that are unrelated to the Company. We will be unable to control the quality of projects undertaken by Mr. Clemente or others using the “Comstock” brand and trademark and therefore will be unable to prevent any damage to its goodwill that may occur. We will further be unable to preclude Mr. Clemente from licensing or transferring the ownership of the “Comstock” trademark to third parties, some of whom may compete against us. Consequently, we are at risk that our brand could be damaged which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and cash flows. Risks Related to our Common Stock and Level of Indebtedness Our level of indebtedness may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation: • A portion of our cash flows from operations will be dedicated to the payment of any interest or amortization required with respect to outstanding indebtedness; • Increases in our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; and • Depending on the levels of our outstanding debt, our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes may be limited. At the scheduled maturity of our credit facilities or in the event of an acceleration of a debt facility following an event of default, the entire outstanding principal amount of the indebtedness under the facility, together with all other amounts payable thereunder from time to time, will become due and payable. It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds to pay such obligations in full at maturity or upon such acceleration. If we default and are not able to pay any such obligations due, our lenders have liens on substantially all of our assets and could foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations. Our stock has been volatile and we expect that it will continue to be volatile. Our stock price has been volatile, and we expect it will continue to be volatile. For example during the year ended December 31, 2012, the closing price of our common stock ranged from a high of $1.94 to a low of $1.10. The volatility of our stock price can be due to factors such as: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • general conditions in the home building industry; • interest rate changes; • changes in the market’s expectations about our operating results; • our operating results failing to meet the expectation of securities analysts or investors in a particular period; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts concerning our Company or of the home building industry in general; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends in our markets; • changes in laws and regulations affecting our business; • material announcements by us or our competitors; • material announcements by our construction lenders or the manufacturers and suppliers we use; 11 Table of Contents • sales of substantial amounts of Class A common stock by our directors, executive officers or significant stockholders or the perception that such sales could occur; and • general economic and political conditions such as recessions and acts of war or terrorism. Investors may not be able to resell their shares of our Class A common stock following periods of volatility because of the market’s adverse reaction to that volatility. Our Class A common stock may not trade at the same levels as the stock of other homebuilders, and the market in general may not sustain its current prices. Investors in our Class A common stock may experience dilution with the future exercise of stock options and warrants, the grant of restricted stock and issuance of stock in connection with our acquisitions of other companies. From time to time, we have issued and we will continue to issue stock options or restricted stock grants to employees and non-employee directors pursuant to our equity incentive plan. We expect that these options or restricted stock grants will generally vest commencing one year from the date of grant and continue vesting over a four-year period. Investors may experience dilution as the options vest and are exercised by their holders and the restrictions lapse on the restricted stock grants. In addition, we may issue stock in connection with acquisitions of other companies, or warrants in connection with the settlement of obligations and or indebtedness with vendors and suppliers, which may result in investors experiencing dilution. Substantial sales of our Class A common stock, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock. A substantial amount of the shares of our Class A common stock are eligible for immediate resale in the public market. Any sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales might occur, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock. The holders of our Class B common stocks exert control over us and thus limit the ability of other stockholders to influence corporate matters. Messrs. Clemente and Benson own 100% of our outstanding Class B common stock, which, together with their shares of Class A common stock, represent approximately 78% of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock as of March 27, 2013. As a result, Messrs. Clemente and Benson, acting together, have control over us, the election of our board of directors and our management and policies. Messrs. Clemente and Benson, acting together, also have control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the amendment of certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, the approval of any equity-based employee compensation plans and the approval of fundamental corporate transactions, including mergers. In light of this control, other companies could be discouraged from initiating a potential merger, takeover or any other transaction resulting in a change of control. Such a transaction potentially could be beneficial to our business or to our stockholders. This may in turn reduce the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock. The limited voting rights of our Class A common stock could impact its attractiveness to investors and its liquidity and, as a result, its market value. The holders of our Class A and Class B common stock generally have identical rights, except that holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share and holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to 15 votes per share on all matters to be voted on by stockholders. The difference in the voting rights of the Class A and Class B common stock could diminish the value of the Class A common stock to the extent that investors or any potential future purchasers of our Class A common stock ascribe value to the superior voting rights of the Class B common stock. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire us, which could inhibit stockholders from realizing a premium on their stock price. We are subject to the Delaware anti-takeover laws regulating corporate takeovers. These anti-takeover laws prevent Delaware corporations from engaging in business combinations with any stockholder, including all affiliates and employees of a stockholder, who owns 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock unless specified conditions are met. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that stockholders could consider favorable or beneficial. These provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions include: • a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual meetings to replace all directors; • a prohibition of stockholder action by written consent; and • advance notice requirements for the submission by stockholders of nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting. 12 Table of Contents Our issuance of shares of preferred stock could delay or prevent a change of control of us. Our Board of Directors has the authority to cause us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, in one or more series, to designate the number of shares constituting any series, and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, voting rights, rights and terms of redemption, redemption price or prices and liquidation preferences of such series. The issuance of shares of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us without further action by the stockholders, even where stockholders are offered a premium for their shares. The issuance of shares of preferred stock with voting and conversion rights may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of Class A common stock, including the loss of voting control. We have no present plans to issue any shares of preferred stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 