Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our portfolio of properties consists primarily of apartment communities concentrated in certain markets and any adverse developments in local economic conditions or the demand for apartment units in these markets may negatively impact our operating results. Our portfolio of properties consists primarily of apartment communities geographically concentrated in the Southeastern United States. Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas comprised 4.83%, 14.24%, 15.02%, 3.99%, 18.57%, 10.41%, 19.0% and 13.94%, respectively, of our rental revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. As such, we are susceptible to local economic conditions and the supply of and demand for apartment units in these markets. If there is a downturn in the economy or an oversupply of or decrease in demand for apartment units in these markets, our business could be materially adversely affected to a greater extent than if we owned a real estate portfolio that was more diversified in terms of both geography and industry focus. Adverse economic conditions may negatively affect our returns and profitability and, as a result, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our operating results may be affected by market and economic challenges, which may negatively affect our returns and profitability and, as a result, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. These market and economic challenges include, but are not limited to, the following: •any future downturn in the U.S. economy and the related reduction in spending, reduced home prices and high unemployment may result in tenant defaults under leases, vacancies at our apartment communities and concessions or reduced rental rates under new leases due to reduced demand; •the rate of household formation or population growth in our markets or a continued or exacerbated economic slow-down experienced by the local economies where our properties are located or by the real estate industry generally may result in changes in supply of or demand for apartment units in our markets; and •the failure of the real estate market to attract the same level of capital investment in the future that it attracts at the time of our purchases or a reduction in the number of companies seeking to acquire properties may result in the value of our investments not appreciating or decreasing significantly below the amount we pay for these investments. The length and severity of any economic slow-down or downturn cannot be predicted. Our operations and, as a result, our ability to make distributions to our stockholders could be negatively affected to the extent that an economic slow-down or downturn is prolonged or becomes severe. We depend on residents for revenue, and vacancies, resident defaults or lease terminations may materially adversely affect our operating results. The success of our investments depends upon the occupancy levels, rental revenue and operating expenses of our apartment communities. Our revenues may be adversely affected by the general or local economic climate, local real estate considerations (such as oversupply of or reduced demand for apartment units), the perception by prospective residents of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of the areas in which our apartment communities are located (including the quality of local schools and other amenities) and increased operating costs (including real estate taxes and utilities). Occupancy rates and rents at a community, including apartment communities that are newly constructed or in the lease-up phase, may fail to meet our original expectations for a number of reasons, including changes in market and economic conditions beyond our control and the development by competitors of competing communities and we may be unable to complete lease-up of a community on schedule, resulting in increased construction and financing costs and a decrease in expected rental revenues. Vacancy rates may increase in the future and we may be unable to lease vacant units or renew expiring leases on attractive terms, or at all, and we may be required to offer reduced rental rates or other concessions to residents. Our revenues may be lower as a result of lower occupancy rates, increased turnover, reduced rental rates, increased economic concessions and potential increases in uncollectible rent. In addition, we will continue to incur expenses, including maintenance costs, insurance costs and property taxes, even though a property maintains a high vacancy rate. Our financial performance will suffer if our revenues decrease or our costs increase as a result of this trend. 11 The underlying value of our properties and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders will depend upon our ability to lease our available apartment units and the ability of our residents to generate enough income to pay their rents in a timely manner. Our residents’ inability to pay rents may be impacted by employment and other constraints on their personal finances, including debts, purchases and other factors. Upon a resident default, we will attempt to remove the resident from the premises and re-lease the unit as promptly as possible. Our ability and the time required to evict a resident, however, will depend on applicable law. Substantially all of the leases for our properties are short-term leases (generally, one year or less in duration). As a result, our rental income and our cash flow are impacted by declines in market conditions more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. A change in the United States government policy with regard to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could impact our financial condition. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are a major source of financing for the multifamily residential real estate sector. We and other multifamily companies depend heavily on Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to finance growth by purchasing or guarantying apartment loans and to refinance outstanding indebtedness as it matures. In February 2011, the Obama Administration released a report to Congress which included options, among others, to gradually shrink and eventually shut down Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In August 2012, the U.S. Treasury modified its investment in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to accelerate the reduction of Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s investment portfolio and to require a sweep of all quarterly profits generated by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In March 2013, proposed legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate to sell the assets of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac over the next five years and to replace the firms’ roles in the housing market with government bond insurance. If this or similar legislation is enacted, the absence of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac may restrict financing for the multifamily residential real estate sector and, therefore, may adversely affect our business. We do not know when or if Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac will further restrict their support of lending to the multifamily industry or to us in particular. If new U.S. government regulations (i) heighten Fannie Mae’s and Freddie Mac’s underwriting standards, (ii) adversely affect interest rates and (iii) continue to reduce the amount of capital they can make available to the multifamily sector, it could reduce or remove entirely a vital resource for multifamily financing. Any potential reduction in loans, guarantees and credit-enhancement arrangements from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could jeopardize the effectiveness of the multifamily sector’s available financing and decrease the amount of available liquidity and credit that could be used to acquire and diversify our portfolio of multifamily assets, as well as dispose of our multifamily assets upon our liquidation, and our ability to refinance our existing mortgage obligations as they come due and obtain additional long-term financing for the acquisition of additional multifamily apartment communities on favorable terms or at all. If we are not able to cost-effectively maximize the life of our properties, we may incur greater than anticipated capital expenditure costs, which may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. As of December 31, 2013, the average age of our apartment communities was approximately 16 years, not accounting for renovations. While the majority of our properties have undergone substantial renovations by prior owners since they were constructed, older properties may carry certain risks including unanticipated repair costs associated with older properties, increased maintenance costs as older properties continue to age, and cost overruns due to the need for special materials and/or fixtures specific to older properties. Although we take a proactive approach to property preservation, utilizing a preventative maintenance plan, and selective improvements that mitigate the cost impact of maintaining exterior building features and aging building components, if we are not able to cost-effectively maximize the life of our properties, we may incur greater than anticipated capital expenditure costs which may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our management team has limited experience operating a public REIT, which may impede their ability to successfully manage our business. Our management has limited experience operating a public REIT. We have developed and implemented control systems and procedures to assist us in qualifying and maintaining our qualification as a public REIT, satisfying our periodic and current reporting requirements under applicable SEC regulations and complying with NASDAQ listing standards. Substantial work on our part will be required to continue to implement and execute appropriate reporting and compliance processes and assess their design, remediate any deficiencies identified and test the operation of such processes. We have limited experience implementing and executing such processes as a public company, and this ongoing process is expected to be both costly and challenging. We cannot assure shareholders that the systems and procedures that our management developed and implemented will be effective to operate our Company successfully. Failure to effectively develop and implement such systems, policies and procedures could hinder our ability to operate as a public company and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our stockholders. 12 Management turnover creates uncertainties and could harm our business. We had significant changes in executive leadership during 2013 and the beginning of 2014, and more could occur. Effective August 27, 2013, Bert Lopez tendered his resignation as our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer and terminated his employment with us effective September 13, 2013. Effective August 27, 2013, our board of directors appointed Richard Ross as Chief Financial Officer to fill the vacancy created by Mr. Lopez’s resignation. David Levin, our former President and Vice Chairman of our board of directors, performed the duties and responsibilities of Chief Operating Officer on an interim basis following Mr. Lopez’s resignation. Effective February 12, 2014, our board of directors appointed Mr. Ross as Chief Operating Officer to fill the vacancy created by Mr. Lopez’s resignation. On February 23, 2014, Michael Baumann resigned his employment as Chief Executive Officer. On that date, our board of directors appointed Mr. Ross to serve as our interim Chief Executive Officer in addition to his current role as Chief Financial Officer. Upon the appointment of Mr. Ross as interim Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Ross ceased to perform the duties of Chief Operating Officer. Further on that date, our board of directors appointed Ryan Hanks, our Chief Investment Officer, to serve as our interim Chief Operating Officer in addition to his current role as Chief Investment Officer. On March 18, 2014, David Levin resigned his employment as our President and resigned as a member of our board of directors. Upon Mr. Levin’s resignation, the board of directors appointed Mr. Ross to serve as our interim President. As a result of the recent changes in our management team, Messrs. Ross and Hanks have taken on substantially more responsibility for the management of our business, which has resulted in greater workload demands and could divert their attention away from certain key areas of our business. For instance, Mr. Ross has taken on the role of interim Chief Executive Officer in addition to his role as the Company’s Chief Financial Officer, which has resulted in him devoting more time to strategic initiatives and less time to the responsibilities typically associated with the role of chief financial officer of a public company, including internal controls. In addition, because Mr. Ross and Mr. Hanks are serving as interim Chief Executive Officer and interim Chief Operating Officer, respectively, it is possible that they could be replaced in those positions when permanent replacements are identified by the Board, and any transition period could create additional diversions for Messrs. Ross and Hanks. Furthermore, because the positions of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are currently held by the same person, we may not have the benefit of a system of checks and balances that typically would be in place if officers were held by two people. Changes to strategic or operating goals, which can often times occur with the appointment of new executives, can create uncertainty, may negatively impact our ability to execute quickly and effectively, and may ultimately be unsuccessful. In addition, executive leadership transition periods are often difficult as the new executives gain detailed knowledge of our operations, and friction can result from changes in strategy and management style. Management turnover inherently causes some loss of institutional knowledge, which can negatively affect strategy and execution. Until we integrate new personnel, and unless they are able to succeed in their positions, we may be unable to successfully manage and grow our business, and our financial condition and profitability may suffer. Further, to the extent we experience additional management turnover, competition for top management is high and it may take months to find a candidate that meets our requirements. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified management personnel, our business could suffer. As a result of recent resignations by certain former board members, our Audit Committee currently consists of only two independent directors, which has resulted in us being in noncompliance with Nasdaq listing rules that require us to have an Audit Committee consisting of at least three independent directors. If we fail to regain or maintain compliance with the Nasdaq requirements, our common stock could be delisted from Nasdaq, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. As a result of the resignation of one of our board members on March 13, 2014, the Audit Committee of our board of directors is currently comprised of two independent directors. Pursuant to Rule 5605 of the Nasdaq Listing Rules, Audit Committees of all listed companies must be comprised of at least three members, although Rule 5605(c)(4)(B) provides that a listed company may avail itself of a 180-day cure period to regain compliance by filling any Audit Committee vacancy created by the resignation of an Audit Committee member. The Company notified the Nasdaq on March 14, 2014 that it intends to avail itself of the cure period set forth in Rule 5605(c)(4)(B). Although the Company intends to add a third member to its Audit Committee on or before September 9, 2014, the 180th day after the resignation that resulted in the noncompliance with Rule 5605, we can provide no assurances that we will be successful in filling the vacancy on our Audit Committee by that date. If we are unable to fill the vacancy on our Audit Committee by September 9, 2014, our common stock could be subject to delisting, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition. Because we are a relatively small company, the requirements of being a public company, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may strain our resources, increase our costs and distract management, and we may be unable to comply with these requirements in a timely or cost-effective manner. As a public company with listed equity securities, we are required to comply with new laws, regulations and requirements, certain corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Sarbanes-Oxley Act, related regulations of the SEC, including compliance with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Exchange Act”), and the requirements of the NASDAQ, with which we were not required to comply as a private company. Complying with these statutes, regulations and requirements occupies a significant amount of time of our board of directors and management and has significantly increased our costs and expenses. As a result of becoming a public company upon completion of the IPO, we are required, or will be required in the future, to: •institute a more comprehensive compliance function; •design, establish, evaluate and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the related rules and regulations of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “PCAOB”); 13 •comply with rules promulgated by the NASDAQ; •prepare and distribute periodic public reports in compliance with our obligations under the federal securities laws; •establish new internal policies, such as those relating to disclosure controls and procedures and insider trading; •involve and retain to a greater degree outside counsel and accountants in the above activities; and •establish an investor relations function. If our profitability is adversely affected because of these additional costs, it could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. For as long as we are an emerging growth company and while remaining a non-accelerated filer, we will not be required to comply with certain reporting requirements, including those relating to accounting standards and disclosure about our executive compensation, that apply to other public companies. In April 2012, President Obama signed into law the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for “emerging growth companies,” including certain requirements relating to accounting standards and compensation disclosure. We are classified as an emerging growth company. For as long as we are an emerging growth company and while remaining a non-accelerated filer, which may be up to five full fiscal years, unlike other public companies, we will not be required to: •provide an auditor’s attestation report on the effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; •comply with any new or revised financial accounting standards applicable to public companies until such standards are also applicable to private companies; •comply with any new requirements adopted by the PCAOB, requiring mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditor’s report in which the auditor would be required to provide additional information about the audit and the financial statements of the issuer; •comply with any new audit rules adopted by the PCAOB after April 5, 2012 unless the SEC determines otherwise; •provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies; or •hold stockholder advisory votes on executive compensation. If we fail to satisfy certain obligations under the Stockholders Agreement by January 16, 2015, the first anniversary of the closing of our Rights Offering, we will be subject to certain penalties. Pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement, we will be required to file and cause the Resale Registration Statement to be declared effective by the SEC no later than January 16, 2015, the first anniversary of the closing of our Rights Offering. If the Resale Registration Statement is not declared effective by January 16, 2015, we will be required to pay Senator a fee, payable in additional shares of our common stock (the “Additional Shares”), equal to 0.5% of the aggregate purchase price paid by Senator under the Standby Purchase Agreement for each full 30 calendar days (prorated for periods totaling less than 30 calendar days) thereafter until the Resale Registration Statement is declared effective, divided by the average of the volume-weighted average prices of our common stock over the 10 trading days prior to the issuance of such shares. In the event we fail to issue the Additional Shares in a timely manner, the Additional Shares issued to Senator will increase by 1.5% of the Consent Rate per month or portion thereof. As a result, if we are unable to have the Resale Registration Statement declared effective prior to January 16, 2015, we could be required to issue additional shares of common stock to Senator, which would increase Senator’s ownership in our company and further dilute the interests of our existing stockholders. Our independent registered public accounting firm identified and reported internal control deficiencies that constituted material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. While our management believes that these material weaknesses were remediated as of June 30, 2013, if one or more material weaknesses recur or if we fail to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to accurately report our financial results could be adversely affected. Prior to the completion of the IPO, we were not a public reporting company and had limited accounting personnel and systems to adequately execute accounting processes and limited other supervisory resources with which to address internal control over financial reporting. As such, our internal controls may not be sufficient to ensure that (1) all transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (the “GAAP”), and (2) the design and execution of our controls has consistently resulted in effective review of our financial statements and supervision by individuals with financial reporting oversight roles. In the past, lack of adequate staffing levels resulted in insufficient time spent on review and approval of certain information used to prepare our financial statements. The lack of adequate accounting systems prevented us from capturing all transactions and related journal entries, which prevented us from preparing timely and accurate financial reporting and analysis. We and our independent registered accounting firm concluded that these control deficiencies constituted a material weakness in the internal controls over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. 14 A material weakness is a control deficiency, or a combination of control deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The control deficiencies described below, at varying degrees of severity, contributed to the material weakness in the control environment as further described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Internal Controls and Procedures.” Further, in connection with the review of our financial statements as of and for the period ended September 30, 2012, we and our independent registered accounting firm concluded that additional material weaknesses existed with the Company’s process of: (i) identifying, tracking, evaluating, recording, disclosing and communicating to those charged with corporate governance, related party transactions; and (ii) capturing rent concessions granted to tenants as consideration for entering into lease agreements. In connection with the audit of our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012, we and our independent registered accounting firm concluded that a material weakness still existed with the Company’s process of identifying, tracking, recording and communicating related party transactions. Additionally, after issuing interim financial statements as of and for the six and nine months ended June 30, 2012 and September 30, 2012, respectively, we identified two accounting errors: (1) expenses incurred in connection with the recapitalization on June 1, 2012 that should have been recorded as expense and included in our statement of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2012 were incorrectly recorded as a direct reduction to equity in those financial statements; and (2) certain capital expenditures occurring from January 1, 2012 through September 30, 2012 were inappropriately recorded as operating expenses but should have been capitalized. We have revised and restated our previously issued financial statements as of and for the six and nine months ended June 30, 2012 and September 30, 2012, respectively. In connection with our restatement of our interim financial statements, we and our independent public registered accounting firm concluded that an additional material weakness existed with the Company’s process of identifying, tracking and recording capital asset additions. Our senior management team has taken steps that we believe have remediated the causes of these material weaknesses. We have put into place new accounting processes and control procedures, including the implementation of best-in-class multifamily property management and financial accounting and revenue management software systems. During 2012 and the first quarter of 2013, we added six experienced accounting and property management personnel in response to our identification of gaps in our skills base and expertise of our staff required to meet the financial reporting requirements of a public company. Additionally, in September 2013, upon the resignation of Mr. Lopez, our board of directors appointed Mr. Ross as our Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Ross has over 30 years of experience serving in finance and accounting capacities of various companies. We also adopted related party transaction policies and procedures. In addition, we adopted a formal capitalization policy that we are following in order to prevent errors in our process of identifying, tracking and recording capital asset additions. Management believes that the above material weaknesses were remediated as of June 30, 2013. However, as a public reporting company, we are required to comply with the SEC’s rules implementing Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which require our management to certify financial and other information in our quarterly and annual reports and provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We will not be required to make our first assessment of our internal control over financial reporting until the filing of the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014.To comply with the requirements of being a public reporting company, we may need to implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hire additional accounting and finance staff. Further, we could be subject to legal claims by investors, regulators or others as a result of any future issuance of financial statements that subsequently have to be restated. Any such restatements could be costly and time consuming, could divert management’s attention from other business concerns and may have a material impact on our business, results of operations, and financial position. Furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is not yet required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for as long as we are an emerging growth company and while remaining a non-accelerated filer. Once it is required to do so, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed. Our efforts to develop and maintain our internal controls may not be successful, and we may be unable to maintain effective controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future and comply with the applicable certification and reporting obligations under Sections 302 and 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Further, our remediation efforts may not enable us to remedy or avoid material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the future. Any failure to remediate deficiencies and to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in our implementation or improvement of our internal controls over financial reporting could result in material misstatements that are not prevented or detected on a timely basis, which could potentially subject us to sanctions or investigations by the SEC, the securities exchange on which our securities are listed or other regulatory authorities. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. As a result, the market value of our common stock could decline. 15 We depend on key personnel and the loss of their full service could adversely affect us. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of certain key personnel including, but not limited to, Messrs. Ross and Hanks, whose continued service is not guaranteed, and each of whom would be difficult to replace. We have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Ross and Hanks; however, they may nevertheless cease to provide services to us at any time. If any of our key personnel were to cease employment with us, our operating results could suffer. Our ability to retain members of our management team or to attract suitable replacements should any members of our management team leave is dependent on the competitive nature of the employment market. The loss of services from key members of our management team or a limitation in their availability to provide their full service to us could adversely impact our financial condition and cash flows. Further, such a loss could be negatively perceived in the capital markets. We also believe that, as we expand, our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to hire and retain highly skilled managerial, investment, financing, operational and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel may be intense, and we cannot provide any assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such skilled personnel. Our growth will depend upon future acquisitions of multifamily apartment communities, and we may be unable to complete acquisitions on advantageous terms or acquisitions may not perform as we expect. Our growth will depend upon future acquisitions of multifamily apartment communities, which entails various risks, including risks that our investments may not perform as we expect. Further, we will face competition for attractive investment opportunities from other real estate investors, including local real estate investors and developers, as well as other multifamily REITs, income-oriented non-traded REITs, and private real estate fund managers, and these competitors may have greater financial resources than us and a greater ability to borrow funds to acquire properties. This competition will increase as investments in real estate become increasingly attractive relative to other forms of investment. As a result of competition, we may be unable to acquire additional properties as we desire or the purchase price may be significantly elevated. In addition, our acquisition activities pose the following risks to our ongoing operations: •we may not achieve the increased occupancy, cost savings and operational efficiencies projected at the time of acquiring a property; •management may incur significant costs and expend significant resources evaluating and negotiating potential acquisitions, including those that we subsequently are unable to complete; •we may acquire properties that are not initially accretive to our results upon acquisition, and we may not successfully manage and operate those properties to meet our expectations; •we may acquire properties outside of our existing markets where we are less familiar with local economic and market conditions; •some properties may be worth less or may generate less revenue than, or simply not perform as well as, we believed at the time of the acquisition; •we may be unable to assume mortgage indebtedness with respect to properties we seek to acquire or obtain financing for acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; •we may forfeit earnest money deposits with respect to acquisitions we are unable to complete due to lack of financing, failure to satisfy closing conditions or certain other reasons; •we may spend more than budgeted to make necessary improvements or renovations to acquired properties; and •we may acquire properties without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, for liabilities, whether known or unknown, such as clean-up of environmental contamination, claims by tenants, vendors or other persons against the former owners of the properties, and claims for indemnification by general partners, trustees, officers, and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. Our growth depends on external sources of capital that are outside of our control, which may affect our ability to take advantage of strategic opportunities, satisfy debt obligations and make distributions to our stockholders . In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are generally required under the Code to distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding any net capital gain. In addition, we will be subject to income tax at regular corporate rates to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income, including any net capital gains. Because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund future capital needs, including any necessary acquisition financing, from operating cash flow. Consequently, we may rely on third-party sources to fund our capital needs. We may not be able to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Any additional debt we incur will increase our leverage. If we issue additional equity securities to finance developments and acquisitions instead of incurring debt, the interests of our existing stockholders could be diluted. Our access to third-party sources of capital depends, in part, on: 16 •general market conditions; •the market’s perception of our growth potential; •our current debt levels; •our current and expected future earnings; •our cash flow and cash distributions; and •the market price per share of our common stock. If we cannot obtain capital from third-party sources, we may not be able to acquire properties when strategic opportunities exist, meet the capital and operating needs of our existing properties or satisfy our debt service obligations. Further, in order to meet the REIT distribution requirements and maintain our REIT status and to avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from differences in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves, certain restrictions on distributions under loan documents or required debt or amortization payments. To the extent that capital is not available to acquire properties, profits may not be realized or their realization may be delayed, which could result in an earnings stream that is less predictable than some of our competitors and result in us not meeting our projected earnings and distributable cash flow levels in a particular reporting period. Failure to meet our projected earnings and distributable cash flow levels in a particular reporting period could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and on the market price of our common stock. We may increase our debt or raise additional capital in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition and growth prospects. To execute our business strategy, we will require additional capital. Debt or equity financing, however, may not be available to us on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we incur additional debt or raise equity through the issuance of preferred stock, the terms of the debt or preferred stock issued may give the holders rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, particularly in the event of liquidation. The terms of any new debt may also impose additional and more stringent restrictions on our operations than we currently have. If we raise funds through the issuance of additional common equity, either through public or private offerings or rights offerings, the percentage ownership of our stockholders would decline. If we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, it could affect our financial condition and growth prospects. Increased competition and increased affordability of residential homes could limit our ability to retain our residents, lease apartment units or increase or maintain rents. Our apartment communities compete with numerous housing alternatives in attracting residents, including other multifamily apartment communities and single-family rental homes, as well as owner-occupied single-family and multifamily homes. Competitive housing in a particular area and an increase in the affordability of owner-occupied single-family and multifamily homes due to, among other things, declining housing prices, mortgage interest rates and tax incentives and government programs to promote home ownership, could adversely affect our ability to retain residents, lease apartment units and increase or maintain rents. As a result, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. We also compete with other major real estate investors with significant capital for attractive investment opportunities. These competitors include REITs, investment banking firms and private institutional investors. Our ability to realize our strategies and capitalize on our competitive strengths are dependent on our ability to effectively operate our portfolio, maintain good relationships with our tenants, and remain well-capitalized, and our failure to do any of the foregoing could affect our ability to compete effectively in the markets in which we operate. We may be subject to contingent or unknown liabilities related to properties or business that we have acquired or may acquire for which we may have limited or no recourse against the sellers. The properties or businesses that we have acquired or may acquire, including our Operating Properties and the Land Investments, may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we have limited or no recourse against the sellers. Unknown liabilities might include liabilities for, among other things, cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions, liabilities under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, claims of residents, vendors or other persons dealing with the entities prior to the acquisition of such property, tax liabilities, and accrued but unpaid liabilities whether incurred in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. Because many liabilities, including tax liabilities, may not be identified within the applicable contractual indemnification period, we may have no recourse against any of the owners from whom we acquire such properties for these liabilities. The existence of such liabilities could significantly adversely affect the value of the property subject to such liability. As a result, if a liability were asserted against us based on ownership of any of such properties, then we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flows. 17 The cash available for distribution to our stockholders may not be sufficient to pay distributions at expected levels, and we cannot provide any assurance of our ability to make or increase distributions in the future. As a REIT, we are required to distribute annually at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, determined without regard to the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, our actual and projected financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity and funds from operations, or FFO, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other factors as our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. Any excess of dividends declared by our board of directors over our cash available for distribution will be required to be funded by borrowings under our revolving credit facilities to the extent we have available borrowing capacity, from proceeds of equity offerings or from other sources of available cash. If we borrow on our revolving credit facilities or use net proceeds equity offerings to pay dividends, we will have less funding for our acquisitions, which could adversely affect our ability to implement our growth strategy and our operating results and the market trading price of our common stock could be negatively impacted. We may not generate enough cash flow to pay dividends for the increased number of outstanding shares of common stock resulting from the issuance of additional common stock pursuant to future equity offerings. As a result, we may not be able to make or increase distributions in the future and we may as we have done in the past decide to reduce our quarterly distribution in the future. See “Distribution Policy” for a description of our distribution policy. In addition, we may choose to retain operating cash flow for investment purposes, working capital reserves or other purposes, and these retained funds, although increasing the value of our underlying assets, may not correspondingly increase the market price of our common stock. Our failure to meet the market’s expectations with regard to future cash distributions likely would adversely affect the market price of our common stock. To the extent that our distributions represent a return of capital for tax purposes, stockholders could recognize an increased gain or a reduced loss upon subsequent sales of common stock. Distributions in excess of our current and accumulated earnings and profits and not treated by us as a capital gain dividend will not be taxable to a U.S. stockholder to the extent those distributions do not exceed the stockholder’s adjusted tax basis in its common stock but instead will constitute a return of capital and will reduce the stockholder’s adjusted tax basis in its common stock. If distributions result in a reduction of a stockholder’s adjusted basis in such holder’s common stock, subsequent sales of such holder’s common stock potentially will result in recognition of an increased gain or reduced loss due to the reduction in such adjusted basis. We face risks associated with land holdings and related activities. We hold the Land Investments for future development and may in the future acquire additional land holdings. The risks inherent in purchasing, owning, and developing land increase as demand for apartments, or rental rates, decrease. Real estate markets are highly uncertain and, as a result, the value of undeveloped land has fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate. In addition, carrying costs can be significant and can result in losses or reduced profitability. As a result, we hold the Land Investments, and may in the future acquire additional land, in our development pipeline at a cost we may not be able to fully recover or at a cost which precludes our developing a profitable multifamily apartment community. If there are subsequent changes in the fair value of our land holdings which we determine is less than the carrying basis of our land holdings reflected in our financial statements plus estimated costs to sell, we may be required to take future impairment charges which would reduce our net income and negatively impact the per share trading price of our common stock. Moreover, we may in the future elect to sell one or more of our Land Investments if our board of directors determines that doing so is in the best interests or our stockholders. Such sales may be at less than the carrying values of such Land Investments. Our participation in joint ventures would create additional risks as compared to direct real estate investments, and the actions of our joint venture partners could adversely affect our operations or performance. We may purchase properties jointly with other entities, including limited partnerships and limited liability companies, some of which may be unaffiliated with us. There are additional risks involved in these types of transactions as compared to other types of real estate investments, including, but not limited to, the risks that: •our joint venture partner in an investment might become bankrupt, which would mean that we and any other remaining joint venture partners would bear an unexpectedly large portion of the economic responsibilities associated with the joint venture; •our joint venture partner may at any time have economic or business interests or goals that are or which become inconsistent with our business interests or goals; •our joint venture partner may take action contrary to our instructions, our policies or our objectives, including our policy with respect to maintaining our qualification as a REIT; •joint venture agreements may restrict our ability to transfer our joint venture interest when we desire or on advantageous terms; •our joint venture partner may exercise buy-sell, put-call and other similar liquidity mechanisms that could require us to fund additional capital to buy out our joint venture partner’s interests or sell our interest to our joint venture partner at a price that we would consider to be less than optimal; and •we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our joint venture partners. 18 Such investments could also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because, in certain situations, neither we nor our joint venture partner may have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and our joint venture partner may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with joint venture partners might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may owe a fiduciary obligation to our partner in a joint venture transaction, which may make it more difficult to enforce our rights. We generally will seek to maintain sufficient control of our joint venture partnerships to permit us to achieve our business objectives; however, we may not be able to do so. Any of the above risks could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, ability to pay distributions, and the market price of our shares of common stock. Failure to succeed in new markets may have adverse consequences on our performance. We may make acquisitions outside of our existing market areas if appropriate opportunities arise. We may be exposed to a variety of risks if we choose to enter new markets, including an inability to accurately evaluate local market conditions, to identify appropriate acquisition opportunities, to hire and retain key personnel, and a lack of familiarity with local governmental and permitting procedures. In addition, we may abandon opportunities to enter new markets that we have begun to explore for any reason and may, as a result, fail to recover expenses already incurred. We may become subject to litigation or threatened litigation, which may divert management time and attention, require us to pay damages and expenses or restrict the operation of our business. We may become subject to litigation as a result of our recapitalization if prior investors dispute the valuation of their respective interests, the adequacy of the consideration received by them in the recapitalization or the interpretation of the agreements implementing the recapitalization. Any such litigation could detract from management’s ability to operate our business or affect the availability or cost of some of our insurance coverage, which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows, expose us to increased risks that would be uninsured, and/or adversely impact our ability to attract officers and directors. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of insurance coverage could adversely affect our financial condition. We carry comprehensive general liability and property (including fire, extended coverage and rental loss) insurance covering all of the properties in our portfolio under a blanket insurance policy. We consider the policy specifications and insured limits to be in line with coverage customarily obtained by owners of similar properties and appropriate given the relative risk of loss and the cost of the coverage. However, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to fully cover all of our losses. There are certain types of losses, such as lease and other contract claims, acts of war or terrorism, acts of God, and in some cases, earthquakes, hurricanes and flooding that generally are not insured because such coverage is not available or it is not available at commercially reasonable rates. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in the damaged property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations, and other factors also might make it impractical or undesirable to use insurance proceeds to replace a property after it has been damaged or destroyed. In addition, if the damaged properties are subject to recourse indebtedness, we would continue to be liable for the indebtedness, even if these properties were irreparably damaged. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage at reasonable costs in the future, as the costs associated with property and casualty renewals may be higher than anticipated. Underlying demographic characteristics and trends in our markets, which we expect will increase demand for apartments, may not result in higher rental rates and reduced vacancies. Over the long term, we believe strong underlying demographic characteristics and trends in our markets as described in this prospectus under the section “Our Industry and Market Opportunity” will increase demand for our apartment units resulting in higher rental rates and reduced vacancies. In the event that this is not the case, our ability to effect our growth strategies could be adversely affected. A component of our strategy is to selectively develop or redevelop properties, including our Land Investments, which could expose us to various risks associated with development activities that could adversely affect our profitability. A component of our strategy is to selectively pursue development opportunities in our target markets, including developing our Land Investments. Primarily, we intend to develop apartment communities through unconsolidated joint ventures. To a limited extent, we may pursue development opportunities directly. Our development and redevelopment activities generally entail certain risks, including the following risks, the occurrence of which may reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders: 19 •funds may be expended and management’s time devoted to projects that may not be completed due to a variety of factors including, without limitation, the inability to obtain necessary governmental approvals; •construction costs of a development project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project economically unfeasible or the economic return on a property less than anticipated; •increased material and labor costs, problems with subcontractors, or other costs due to errors and omissions which occur in the development process; •projects may be delayed due to required governmental approvals, adverse weather conditions, labor shortages or other unforeseen complications; •occupancy rates and rents at a developed or redeveloped property may be less than anticipated; and •the operating expenses at a developed or redeveloped property may be higher than anticipated. We may sell one or more of our Land Investments if our board of directors determines such sale is in the best interests of our stockholders, which sales could be at prices less than the carrying values of such assets. In general, we will have greater exposure to these risks to the extent we pursue development projects directly rather than through an unconsolidated joint venture. Short-term leases expose us to the effects of declining market conditions Substantially all of the leases for our properties are short-term leases (generally, one year or less in duration). Our residents can leave after the end of their lease term without any penalty. As a result, our rental revenues may be impacted by declines in market conditions more quickly than if our leases were for longer terms. Moreover, high turnover in our resident base due to short term leases could result in higher turnover expense, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash available for distribution. Inflation or deflation may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Increased inflation could have an adverse impact on our general and administrative expenses, as these costs could increase at a rate higher than our rental revenue. In addition, if we incur variable rate debt in the future, inflation could have a negative impact on our mortgage and debt interest. Conversely, deflation could lead to downward pressure on rents and other sources of income. Breaches of our data security could materially harm our business and reputation. We collect and retain certain personal information provided by our tenants and employees. While we have implemented a variety of security measures to protect the confidentiality of this information and periodically review and improve our security measures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent unauthorized access to this information. Any breach of our data security measures and loss of this information may result in legal liability and costs (including damages and penalties), as well as damage to our reputation, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial performance. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure As the parent of the sole general partner of our Operating Partnership, we have fiduciary duties which may result in conflicts of interest in representing the interests of our stockholders. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationship between us, on one hand, and our Operating Partnership or any partner thereof, on the other, as the sole general partner of our Operating Partnership is our wholly-owned subsidiary, Trade Street OP GP, LLC. The general partner has fiduciary duties to the other limited partners in our Operating Partnership under Delaware law. At the same time, our directors and officers have duties to our Company under Maryland law in connection with their management of our Company. Our duties as the parent of the sole general partner of our Operating Partnership may come in conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to our Company. In the event that a conflict of interest exists between the interests of our stockholders, on one hand, and the interests of the limited partners, on the other, we will endeavor in good faith to resolve the conflict in a manner not adverse to either our stockholders or the limited partners. The limited partnership agreement expressly provides that in the event of such a determination by us, as the parent of the sole general partner of our Operating Partnership, we shall not be liable to our Operating Partnership or any of the limited partners for monetary damages for losses sustained, liabilities incurred or benefits not derived by a limited partner in connection with such a decision as long as we, in our capacity as the parent of the sole general partner, acted in good faith. 20 Our common stock is subordinate as to distributions and payments upon liquidation to our Class A preferred stock. The rights of the holders of shares of our Class A preferred stock rank senior to the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock as to distributions and payments upon liquidation. Although we have entered into a binding term sheet to redeem all of our outstanding Class A preferred stock upon satisfaction of certain conditions and the execution of a definitive agreement, until the closing of such transaction, we will not declare and pay or set apart for payment distributions with respect to any shares of our common stock for any period unless full cumulative distributions on our shares of Class A preferred stock for all past distribution periods have been declared and paid (or set apart for payment). In addition, no distributions in respect of common units of the Operating Partnership may be paid until cumulative distributions in respect of Class A preferred units shall have been paid or reserved by the Operating Partnership. These provisions may limit our ability to pay distributions on our common stock. Upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our Company (but excluding a merger, change of control, sale of substantially all assets or bankruptcy of our Company, upon the occurrence of any of which all shares of Class A preferred stock, if any, will be automatically converted), the holders of shares of our Class A preferred stock, if any, are entitled to receive a liquidation preference of $100.0 per share subject to downward adjustments upon certain events, plus all accrued but unpaid distributions, prior and in preference to any distribution to the holders of shares of our common stock or any other class of our equity securities. Additionally, due to our UPREIT structure, our ability to make distributions is dependent upon our receipt of distributions from our Operating Partnership in accordance with our ownership of common units of our Operating Partnership. See “— Because of our UPREIT structure, we depend on our Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries for cash flow and we will be structurally subordinated in right of payment to the obligations of such Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries.” for further discussion of our UPREIT structure. Our charter and bylaws, the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership and Maryland law contain provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a change of control transaction. Our charter contains a 9.8% ownership limit. Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to limit any person to beneficial or constructive ownership of no more than 9.8% in value or in number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our capital stock or the outstanding shares of our common stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt (prospectively or retroactively) a proposed transferee from the ownership limit. For instance, in connection with our Rights Offering, we granted Senator a waiver of our ownership limits. Our board of directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose ownership of more than 9.8% of the value or number of the outstanding shares of our capital stock or the outstanding shares of our common stock could jeopardize our status as a REIT. The ownership limit contained in our charter and the restrictions on ownership of our stock may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. See “Description of Stock—Restrictions on Ownership and Transfer.” Our board of directors may create and issue additional classes or series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. Our board of directors is empowered under our charter to amend our charter from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of our stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that we have authority to issue, to designate and issue from time to time one or more classes or series of preferred stock and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock into other classes or series of stock without stockholder approval. Our board of directors may determine the preferences conversion and other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of any class or series of preferred stock issued. As a result, subject to the rights of holders of our Class A preferred stock, if any, we may issue preferred stock with preferences, distributions, powers and rights, voting or otherwise, senior to the rights of holders of our common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control transaction that might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Certain provisions in the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us. Provisions in the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes in our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some stockholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable. These provisions include, among others: •redemption rights of qualifying parties; •transfer restrictions on our Operating Partnership units; •the ability of the general partner in some cases to amend the partnership agreement without the consent of the limited partners; and •the right of the limited partners to consent to transfers of the general partnership interest and mergers under specified circumstances. Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, (the “MGCL”), may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our common stock, including: 21 •“business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our outstanding voting stock) or an affiliate thereof for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special appraisal rights and supermajority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and •“control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our Company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of issued and outstanding “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. We have elected to opt out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL, by resolution of our board of directors and provided that the business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of disinterested directors), and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL, pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. Our board of directors may by resolution elect to repeal the foregoing opt-outs from the business combination provisions of the MGCL and we may by amendment to our bylaws opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. Additionally, Title 8, Subtitle 3 of the MGCL permits a Maryland corporation with a class of equity securities registered under the Exchange Act and at least three independent directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in its charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which (for example, a classified board) we do not currently have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for our Company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. Our board of directors can take many actions without stockholder approval. Our board of directors has overall authority to oversee our operations and determine our major corporate policies. This authority includes significant flexibility. For example, our board of directors can do the following without stockholder approval: •amend or revise at any time and from time to time our investment, financing, borrowing and distribution policies and our policies with respect to all other activities, including growth, debt, capitalization and operations; •amend our policies with respect to conflicts of interest provided that such changes are consistent with applicable legal requirements; •within the limits provided in our charter, prevent the ownership, transfer and/or accumulation of shares in order to preserve our status as a REIT or for any other reason deemed to be in the best interests of us and our stockholders; •issue additional shares, which could dilute the ownership of our then-current stockholders; •amend our charter from time to time to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series; •classify or reclassify any unissued shares of our common stock or preferred stock into other classes or series of shares and set the preferences, rights and other terms of such classified or reclassified shares; •employ and compensate affiliates; •direct our resources toward investments that fail to ultimately appreciate over time; •offer purchase money financing in connection with the sale of properties or make loans to joint-development projects in which we may participate in the future; and •determine that it is no longer in our best interests to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Any of these actions could increase our operating expenses, impact our ability to make distributions or reduce the value of our assets without giving our stockholder, the right to vote. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our charter eliminates our directors’ and officers’ liability to us and our stockholders for money damages except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. Our bylaws require us to indemnify our directors and officers to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law for liability actually incurred in connection with any proceeding to which they may be made, or threatened to be made, a party, except to the extent that the act or omission of the director or officer was material to the matter giving rise to the proceeding and was either committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, the director or officer actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property or services, or, in the case of any criminal proceeding, the director or officer had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. Finally, we have entered into agreements with our directors and officers pursuant to which we have agreed to indemnify them to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. See “Certain Provisions of Maryland Law and of Our Charter and Bylaws—Indemnification and Limitation of Directors’ and Officers’ Liability.” 22 Because of our UPREIT structure, we depend on our Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries for cash flow and we will be structurally subordinated in right of payment to the obligations of such Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries. We are an umbrella partnership REIT, or UPREIT, and conduct substantially all of our operations through our Operating Partnership. We do not have, apart from our ownership of our Operating Partnership, any independent operations. As a result, we rely on distributions from our Operating Partnership to pay any distributions we might declare on our common stock. We also rely on distributions from our Operating Partnership to meet our debt service and other obligations, including our obligations to make distributions required to maintain our REIT qualification. The ability of subsidiaries of our Operating Partnership to make distributions to the Operating Partnership, and the ability of our Operating Partnership to make distributions to us in turn, will depend on their operating results and on the terms of any loans that encumber the properties owned by them. Such loans may contain lockbox arrangements, reserve requirements, financial covenants and other provisions that restrict the distribution of funds. In the event of a default under these loans, the defaulting subsidiary would be prohibited from distributing cash. As a result, a default under any of these loans by the borrower subsidiaries could cause us to have insufficient cash to make distributions on our common stock required to maintain our REIT qualification. In addition, because we are a holding company, claims of our stockholders will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations of our Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization, our assets and those of our Operating Partnership and its subsidiaries will be able to satisfy claims of our stockholders only after all of our and our Operating Partnership’s and its subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. Our Operating Partnership may issue additional common units to third parties without the consent of our stockholders, which would reduce our ownership percentage in our Operating Partnership and would have a dilutive effect on the amount of distributions made to us by our Operating Partnership and, therefore, the amount of distributions we can make to our stockholders. We may, in connection with our acquisition of properties or otherwise, issue additional common units to third parties. Such issuances would reduce our ownership percentage in our Operating Partnership and affect the amount of distributions made to us by our Operating Partnership and, therefore, the amount of distributions we can make to our stockholders. Our stockholders who do not directly own common units, you will not have any voting rights with respect to any such issuances or other partnership level activities of our Operating Partnership. Investment entities managed or advised by Senator Investment Group LP and Monarch LLP are significant stockholders and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. As of January 16, 2014, investment entities managed or advised by Senator and Monarch LLP (“Monarch”), owned approximately 25.6% and 23.3%, respectively, of our issued and outstanding common stock. As a result, Senator and Monarch are our largest stockholders, while no other stockholder is permitted to own more than 9.8% of our common stock, except as approved by our board of directors pursuant to the terms of our charter. In addition, in connection with our Rights Offering, we entered into a Stockholders Agreement (the “Stockholders Agreement”) with Senator which grants certain rights to Senator. See “—The Stockholders Agreement grants Senator certain rights that may restrain our ability to take various actions in the future” below. This concentration of ownership in two stockholders could potentially be disadvantageous to other stockholders’ interests. In addition, if Senator or Monarch were to sell or otherwise transfer all or a large percentage of their holdings, our stock price could decline and we could find it difficult to raise capital, if needed, through the sale of additional equity securities. For example, pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement, subject to certain limitations, we have agreed to file a registration statement covering the resale of the shares of our common stock issued to Senator pursuant to the Standby Purchase Agreement (the “Resale Registration Statement”). Once the Resale Registration Statement is declared effective (or earlier to the extent Senator is eligible to sell shares of our common stock in accordance with Rule 144), Senator could sell, or otherwise transfer, a large percentage of its holdings, which could cause our stock price to decline significantly. In addition, the perception that Senator could sell a large percentage of its shares, even if it does not intend to do so, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, if we file a registration statement for the purpose of selling additional shares to raise equity capital and are required to include shares held by Senator pursuant to the exercise of its rights under the Stockholders Agreement, our ability to raise capital may be materially impaired. 23 In addition, Senator and Monarch may exercise their rights as stockholders so as to restrict our ability to take certain actions that may otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the interests of Senator or Monarch will be aligned with those of our other stockholders. The interests of Senator or Monarch may differ from the interests of our other stockholders in material respects. For example, Senator or Monarch may have an interest in directly or indirectly pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their other equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to us. Senator and Monarch are in the business of making or advising on investments in companies and may from time to time in the future acquire interests in, or provide advice to, businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business. They may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. The Stockholders Agreement grants Senator certain rights that may restrain our ability to take various actions in the future. In connection with our Rights Offering which closed in January 2014, we entered into the Stockholders Agreement pursuant to which we granted Senator certain rights that may restrain our ability to take various actions in the future. Pursuant to the terms of the Stockholders Agreement, we agreed to maintain a nine member board of directors, and Senator has the right to designate a specified number of directors to our board of directors for so long as Senator’s level of ownership of our Company is equal to or greater than 4.9% of our outstanding common stock. Specifically, Senator is entitled to designate to our board of directors (i) two directors if Senator’s ownership is equal to or greater than 19.9% of our total outstanding common stock and (ii) one director if Senator’s ownership is at least 4.9%, but less than 19.9% of our total outstanding common stock. Senator will have no board of directors designation rights if its level of ownership in our Company is less than 4.9%. In addition, Senator’s designated directors serve on all of our standing committees of our board of directors, except the Audit Committee, and Michael Simanovsky, one of Senator’s board designees, currently chairs the Compensation Committee of our board of directors. If Senator’s beneficial ownership of our outstanding common stock falls below any percentage threshold set forth above, Senator will promptly cause one or more, as applicable, of Senator’s nominated directors to resign from the board of directors, such that the remaining number of directors designated by Senator does not exceed the number of directors that Senator is then entitled to designate for nomination or appointment. Following such resignation, the number of directors that Senator is entitled to designate for nomination is forever reduced to such number of directors designated by Senator immediately after such resignation(s), even if Senator subsequently acquires additional shares of our common stock. In addition, Senator also has the right to consent to the following actions for so long as Senator’s level of ownership of our Company is equal to or greater than 4.9% of our outstanding common stock (i) any guarantees of, incurrences or issuance of recourse debt or recourse capital stock redeemable at any time by us or our Operating Partnership, that in any calendar year are in a principal amount or create an obligation of the Company in excess of $50.0 million and any issuance of equity other than our common stock for consideration or value greater than $50.0 million in the aggregate in any calendar year; (ii) any future equity issuance at a price lower than $6.33 per share of common stock, the cash subscription price in our Rights Offering; (iii) entering into or granting any retention agreements, stock options, restricted stock or restricted stock unit awards, stock incentive rights or signing bonuses that, in the aggregate during any calendar year exceeds 10% of our market capitalization or that in the aggregate exceeds $5.0 million in any calendar year (which awards will also be subject to approval of the Compensation Committee of our board of directors); (iv) any purchase of shares of our common stock or capital stock from members of our board of directors, management or their affiliates (other than deemed repurchases in connection with the surrender of shares to the Company to satisfy any tax withholding in connection with vesting of restricted stock or cashless exercises of stock options); (v) any transaction, including any modification of rights, involving our existing shares of preferred stock or our preferred stockholders; (vi) any amendment to our charter or bylaws (whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise) in any manner adverse to Senator; (vii) the hiring or firing of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer, Chief Operating Officer or President or any similar position; (viii) any acquisition or series of related acquisitions whose purchase price equals or exceeds 50% of our market capitalization immediately prior to the execution of a definitive document for such transaction, and (ix) determination by our board of directors that it is no longer in our best interest to qualify as a real estate investment trust. Senator has a liquidity right that could require us to repurchase its shares of common stock, and our failure to repurchase such shares could have adverse consequences to us and our stockholders. Pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement, Senator has a right to seek liquidity with respect to shares of common stock that it owns (the “Liquidity Right”) if, on or after the 3.5-year anniversary of January 16, 2014, the closing of the Rights Offering (the “Liquidity Right Measurement Date”), the closing price of our common stock has not exceeded $10.00 per share (subject to certain adjustments set forth in the Stockholders Agreement) during any consecutive 10 trading day period during the 180 days prior to the Liquidity Right Measurement Date and Senator continues to own 4.9% or greater of our outstanding common stock. If Senator exercises its Liquidity Right, we will have the right of first offer to purchase the shares offered by Senator for the greater of $10.00 per share or an amount equal to a 5.0% discount to the average volume-weighted average prices of our common stock over the 10 trading days immediately prior to the Liquidity Right Measurement Date. If we choose not to, or are unable to, exercise our right to repurchase Senator’s common stock by the six-month anniversary of the Liquidity Right Measurement Date, we will be required to submit to Senator for approval quarterly business plans setting forth all material business activities planned for the ensuing quarter. To the extent that any expenditure or other items relating to the income statement, balance sheet or cash flows set forth in the quarterly business plan for any particular fiscal quarter deviates from the initial quarterly business plan in a manner adverse to the Company by 5.0% or greater, we will be prohibited from making such expenditure or taking any such action, and from adopting such quarterly business plan, unless we receive Senator’s approval, which may be given or withheld in Senator’s sole discretion. 24 In addition, the Stockholders Agreement contains certain standstill provisions pursuant to which Senator has agreed, until the earlier of four years from January 16, 2014, the date of the closing of our Rights Offering, a change of control or at such time as Senator no longer owns at least 4.9% of our outstanding common stock, not to, among other things: ·acquire, offer or propose to acquire or agree to acquire, beneficial ownership of any voting securities of the Company, other than voting securities acquired (A) as a result of the exercise of any rights or obligations set forth in the Standby Purchase Agreement or the Stockholders Agreement, (B) pursuant to a stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reclassification or similar transaction, (C) directly from us, or (D) to maintain their aggregate percentage interest in the our outstanding common stock; provided that Senator shall not be permitted to acquire, offer or propose to acquire or agree to acquire, beneficial ownership of any voting securities to account for the dilutive effect of any issuance of equity securities up to a maximum of the 4,329 shares of common stock authorized for issuance under our 2013 Equity Incentive Plan as of the date hereof; ·enter into or agree, offer, propose or seek (whether publicly or otherwise) to enter into, or otherwise be involved in or part of, any acquisition transaction, including a proposed negotiated private sale of its shares of common stock to a single purchaser or a “group” as defined in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, merger or other business combination relating to all or part of our or our subsidiaries or any acquisition transaction for all or part of our assets or any of our subsidiaries or any of our respective businesses; provided, however, that negotiated private sales to a single purchaser or a “group” will be permitted if the purchasing party agrees in writing to be bound by the provisions of the standstill; ·other than a “solicitation” of a “proxy” (as such terms are defined under Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act, disregarding clause (iv) of Rule 14a-1(1)(2) and including any otherwise exempt solicitation pursuant to Rule 14a-2(b)) seeking approval of the election to our board of directors solely with respect to any of Senator’s nominated directors permitted by the terms of the Stockholders Agreement to serve on our board of directors, make, or in any way participate in, any such “solicitation” of “proxies” to vote, or seek to advise or influence any person or entity with respect to the voting election of any director to our board of directors; ·call or seek to call a meeting of our common stockholders or any of our subsidiaries or initiate any stockholder proposal for action by our common stockholders; ·deposit any of our securities into a voting trust unless such voting trust is bound by the provisions of the standstill provisions of the Stockholders Agreement, or subject our securities to any agreement or arrangement with respect to the voting of such securities, or other agreement or arrangement having similar effect unless such agreement or arrangement conforms to the provisions of the standstill provisions of the Stockholders Agreement; ·seek representation on our board of directors or a change in the composition of our board of directors or number of directors elected by the holders of our common stock or a change in the number of such directors who represent Senator, other than as expressly permitted pursuant to the Stockholders Agreement; and ·bring any action or otherwise act to contest the validity of the standstill provisions of the Stockholders Agreement. If we have not repurchased Senator’s shares in connection with the Liquidity Right by the six-month anniversary of the Liquidity Right Measurement Date, the standstill provisions will cease to exist and Senator may own shares of common stock in sufficient amounts to elect its own slate of directors and otherwise assume control of our Company. Furthermore, if Senator exercises its Liquidity Right and we do not exercise our right to repurchase Senator’s shares by the six-month anniversary of the Liquidity Right Measurement Date, Senator will have the right to approve our quarterly business plans in its sole discretion, and we may be limited significantly in taking actions that are otherwise in our and our stockholders’ best interests. If we elect to repurchase Senator’s shares, we may not have access to sufficient funds to repurchase the shares and we may need to obtain debt or equity financing, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. Moreover, if we use cash or other funding sources to repurchase Senator’s shares, we would have less cash or other funding sources available to acquire additional properties or otherwise execute our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth prospects and our business. There can be no assurance that the interests of Senator are aligned with those of our other stockholders. Investor interests can differ from each other and from other corporate interests and it is possible that this significant stockholder with a stake in corporate management may have interests that differ from us and those of other shareholders. Risks Associated with Real Estate We face numerous risks associated with the real estate industry that could adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs. As a real estate company, we are subject to various changes in real estate conditions and any negative trends in such real estate conditions may adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs. These conditions include: 25 •changes in national, regional and local economic conditions, which may be negatively impacted by concerns about inflation, deflation, government deficits, high unemployment rates, decreased consumer confidence and liquidity concerns, particularly in markets in which we have a high concentration of properties; •fluctuations in interest rates, which could adversely affect our ability to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all; •the inability of residents to pay rent; •the existence and quality of the competition, such as the attractiveness of our properties as compared to our competitors’ properties based on considerations such as convenience of location, rental rates, amenities and safety record; •increased operating costs, including increased real property taxes, maintenance, insurance and utilities costs; •weather conditions that may increase or decrease energy costs and other weather-related expenses; •civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and other natural disasters, which may result in uninsured losses, and acts of war or terrorism; •oversupply of multifamily housing or a reduction in demand for real estate in the markets in which our properties are located; •a favorable interest rate environment that may result in a significant number of potential residents of our multifamily apartment communities deciding to purchase homes instead of renting; •changes in, or increased costs of compliance with, laws and/or governmental regulations, including those governing usage, zoning, the environment and taxes; and •rent control or stabilization laws, or other laws regulating rental housing, which could prevent us from raising rents to offset increases in operating costs. Moreover, other factors may adversely affect our results of operations, including potential liability under environmental and other laws and other unforeseen events, many of which are discussed elsewhere in the following risk factors. Any or all of these factors could materially adversely affect our results of operations through decreased revenues or increased costs. The illiquidity of real estate investments may significantly impede our ability to respond to changes in economic or market conditions, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid generally, and may become even more illiquid during periods of economic downturn. As a result, we may not be able to sell a property or properties quickly or on favorable terms in response to changes in the economy or other conditions when it otherwise may be prudent to do so. This inability to respond quickly to changes in the performance of our properties could adversely affect our results of operations if we cannot sell an unprofitable property. Our financial condition could also be adversely affected if we were, for example, unable to sell one or more of our properties in order to meet our debt obligations upon maturity. In addition, as a result of the 100% prohibited transactions tax applicable to REITs, we intend to hold our properties for investment, rather than primarily for sale in the ordinary course of business, which may cause us to forgo or defer sales of properties that otherwise would be in our best interest. Mortgage financing on a property may also prohibit prepayment and/or impose a prepayment penalty upon the sale of a mortgaged property, which may decrease the proceeds from a sale or refinancing or make the sale or refinancing impractical. Therefore, we may be unable to vary our portfolio promptly in response to economic, market or other conditions, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. We are subject to significant regulations, which could adversely affect our results of operations through increased costs and/or an inability to pursue business opportunities. Local zoning and use laws, environmental statutes and other governmental requirements may restrict or increase the costs of our development, expansion, renovation and reconstruction activities and thus may prevent or delay us from taking advantage of business opportunities. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in the imposition of fines, awards to private litigants of damages against us, substantial litigation costs and substantial costs of remediation or compliance. In addition, we cannot predict what requirements may be enacted in the future or that such requirements will not increase our costs of regulatory compliance or prohibit us from pursuing business opportunities that could be profitable to us, which could adversely affect our results of operations. The costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations may adversely affect our income and the cash available for any distributions. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and human health and safety. Examples of federal laws include: the National Environmental Policy Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, the Federal Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act and the Hazard Communication Act. These laws and regulations generally govern wastewater discharges, air emissions, the operation and removal of underground and aboveground storage tanks, the use, storage, treatment, transportation and disposal of solid and hazardous materials, and the remediation of contamination associated with disposals. Some of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several liability on tenants, owners or operators for the costs of investigation or remediation of contaminated properties, regardless of fault or the legality of the original disposal. 26 Under various federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real property may be liable for the cost of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on, under or in such property. The costs of removal or remediation could be substantial. These laws often impose liability whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. In addition, the presence of these substances, or the failure to properly remediate these substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent the property or to use the property as collateral for future borrowing. Environmental laws also may impose restrictions on the manner in which property may be used or businesses may be operated, and these restrictions may require substantial expenditures. Environmental laws provide for sanctions in the event of noncompliance and may be enforced by governmental agencies or, in certain circumstances, by private parties. Certain environmental laws and common law principles govern the presence, maintenance, removal and disposal of certain building materials, including asbestos and lead-based paint. Such hazardous substances could be released into the air and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury or property damage associated with exposure to released hazardous substances. In addition, if any property in our portfolio is not properly connected to a water or sewer system, or if the integrity of such systems is breached, microbial matter or other contamination can develop. If this were to occur, we could incur significant remedial costs and we may also be subject to private damage claims and awards, which could be material. If we become subject to claims in this regard, it could materially and adversely affect us. Property values may also be affected by the proximity of such properties to electric transmission lines. Electric transmission lines are one of many sources of electro-magnetic fields, or EMFs, to which people may be exposed. Research completed regarding potential health concerns associated with exposure to EMFs has produced inconclusive results. Notwithstanding the lack of conclusive scientific evidence, some states now regulate the strength of electric and magnetic fields emanating from electric transmission lines and other states have required transmission facilities to measure for levels of EMFs. On occasion, lawsuits have been filed (primarily against electric utilities) that allege personal injuries from exposure to transmission lines and EMFs, as well as from fear of adverse health effects due to such exposure. This fear of adverse health effects from transmission lines may be considered both when property values are determined to obtain financing and in condemnation proceedings. We may not, in certain circumstances, search for electric transmission lines near our properties, but are aware of the potential exposure to damage claims by persons exposed to EMFs. The cost of defending against such claims of liability, of compliance with environmental regulatory requirements, of remediating any contaminated property, or of paying personal injury claims could materially adversely affect our business, assets or results of operations and, consequently, amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. We cannot provide any assurance properties which we acquire will not have any material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns. Accordingly, we have no way of determining at this time the magnitude of any potential liability to which we may be subject arising out of environmental conditions or violations with respect to the properties we own. Costs associated with addressing indoor air quality issues, moisture infiltration and resulting mold remediation may be costly. As a general matter, concern about indoor exposure to mold or other air contaminants has been increasing as such exposure has been alleged to have a variety of adverse effects on health. As a result, there have been a number of lawsuits in our industry against owners and managers of apartment communities relating to indoor air quality, moisture infiltration and resulting mold. Some of our properties may contain microbial matter such as mold and mildew. The terms of our property and general liability policies generally exclude certain mold-related claims. Should an uninsured loss arise against us, we would be required to use our funds to resolve the issue, including litigation costs. We make no assurance that liabilities resulting from indoor air quality, moisture infiltration and the presence of or exposure to mold will not have a future impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As the owner or operator of real property, we could become subject to liability for asbestos-containing building materials in the buildings on our properties. Some of our properties may contain asbestos-containing materials. Environmental laws typically require that owners or operators of buildings with asbestos-containing building materials properly manage and maintain these materials, adequately inform or train those who may come in contact with asbestos and undertake special precautions, including removal or other abatement, in the event that asbestos is disturbed during building renovation or demolition. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators for failure to comply with these requirements. In addition, third parties may be entitled to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to asbestos-containing building materials. 27 In addition, many insurance carriers are excluding asbestos-related claims from standard policies, pricing asbestos endorsements at prohibitively high rates or adding significant restrictions to this coverage. Because of our inability to obtain specialized coverage at rates that correspond to the perceived level of risk, we may not obtain insurance for asbestos-related claims. We will continue to evaluate the availability and cost of additional insurance coverage from the insurance market. If we decide in the future to purchase insurance for asbestos, the cost could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Compliance or failure to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and Fair Housing Amendment Act of 1988 could result in substantial costs. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended (the “ADA”), and the Fair Housing Amendment Act of 1988, (the “FHAA”), and various state and local laws, all public accommodations and commercial facilities must meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with these requirements could involve removal of structural barriers from certain disabled persons’ entrances. Other federal, state and local laws may require modifications to or restrict further renovations of our properties with respect to such means of access. Noncompliance with the ADA, the FHAA or related laws or regulations could result in the imposition of fines by government authorities, awards to private litigants of damages against us, substantial litigation costs and the incurrence of additional costs associated with bringing the properties into compliance, any of which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. •we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; •we may default on our obligations or violate restrictive covenants, in which case the lenders or mortgagees may accelerate our debt obligations, foreclose on the properties that secure their loans and/or take control of our properties that secure their loans and collect rents and other property income; and •our default under any future loan with cross default provisions could result in a default on other indebtedness. If any one of these events were to occur, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flow, per share trading price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our principal and interest obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. Risks Associated with Indebtedness Higher levels of debt or increases in interest rates could increase the amount of our debt payments and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We expect that we will incur additional indebtedness in the future. Interest we pay reduces our cash available for distributions. In addition, if we incur variable rate debt in the future, increases in interest rates could raise our interest costs, which would reduce our cash flows and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flows and our financial condition would be adversely affected, and we may lose the property securing such indebtedness. In addition, if we need to repay existing debt during periods of rising interest rates, we could be required to liquidate one or more of our investments in properties at times which may not permit realization of the maximum return on such investments. Our board of directors may change our financing policies without stockholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations. Our financing policies are exclusively determined by our board of directors. Accordingly, our stockholders do not control these policies. Further, our charter and bylaws contain no limitations on the amount or percentage of indebtedness that we may incur. Our board of directors could alter the balance between our total outstanding indebtedness and the value of our portfolio or our market capitalization at any time. If we become more leveraged in the future, the resulting increase in debt service requirements could materially and adversely affect us. Our two secured revolving credit facilities restrict our ability to engage in some business activities, including our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make capital expenditures and make certain investments, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and the trading price of our common stock. Our two secured revolving credit facilities contain customary negative covenants and other financial and operating covenants that, among other things: •restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness; •restrict our ability to incur additional liens; •restrict our ability to make certain investments; •restrict our ability to make distributions under certain circumstances; •restrict our ability to merge with another company; and •require us to satisfy minimum financial coverage ratios, minimum tangible net worth requirements and maximum leverage ratios. 28 These limitations will restrict our ability to engage in some business activities, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and the trading price of our common stock. In addition, it will constitute an event of default under the credit facilities if we default on any of our indebtedness that (i) equals or exceeds $10.0 million for non-recourse debt, under the BMO Credit Facility (as defined below), and (ii) equals or exceeds $10.0 million for non-recourse debt or $5.0 million for recourse debt under the our Revolver (as defined below), each including any indebtedness we have guaranteed. These cross-default provisions may require us to repay or restructure the facility in addition to any mortgage or other debt that is in default. If our properties were foreclosed upon, or if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our distributable cash flows and our financial condition would be adversely affected. There is refinancing risk associated with our debt. Certain of our outstanding debt contains, and we may in the future acquire or finance properties with debt containing, limited principal amortization, which would require that the principal be repaid at the maturity of the loan in a so-called “balloon payment.” As of December 31, 2013, the financing arrangements of our outstanding indebtedness could require us to make lump-sum or “balloon” payments of approximately $224.1 million at maturity dates that range from 2014 to 2025. At the maturity of these loans, assuming we do not have sufficient funds to repay the debt, we will need to refinance the debt. If the credit environment is constrained at the time of our debt maturities, we would have a very difficult time refinancing debt. In addition, for certain loans, we locked in our fixed-rate debt at a point in time when we were able to obtain favorable interest rate, principal payments and other terms. When we refinance our debt, prevailing interest rates and other factors may result in paying a greater amount of debt service, which will adversely affect our cash flow, and, consequently, our cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced to choose from a number of unfavorable options, including agreeing to otherwise unfavorable financing terms on one or more of our unencumbered assets, selling one or more properties at disadvantageous terms, including unattractive prices, or defaulting on the mortgage and permitting the lender to foreclose. Any one of these options could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. We were required to become a co-guarantor (and, with respect to certain properties, a co-environmental indemnitor) on certain outstanding mortgage indebtedness related to our properties in connection with our recapitalization, which, in the event of certain prohibited actions, could trigger partial or full recourse to our Company. In connection with our recapitalization, as a condition to closing, we, along with our Operating Partnership, were required to become co-guarantors (and, with respect to certain properties, co-environmental indemnitors) on certain outstanding mortgage indebtedness related to our properties in order to replace, and cause the release of, the Trade Street Funds as the guarantors and indemnitors under the existing guarantees and environmental indemnity agreements, as applicable. Our position as a co-guarantor and co-indemnitor with respect to our properties could result in partial or full recourse liability to us or our Operating Partnership in the event of the occurrence of certain prohibited acts set forth in such agreements. Some of our outstanding mortgage indebtedness contains, and we may in the future acquire or finance properties with, lock-out provisions, which may prohibit us from selling a property, or may require us to maintain specified debt levels for a period of years on some properties. A lock-out provision is a provision that prohibits the prepayment of a loan during a specified period of time. Lock-out provisions may include terms that provide strong financial disincentives for borrowers to prepay their outstanding loan balance and exist in order to protect the yield expectations of lenders. Some of our outstanding mortgage indebtedness is, and we expect that many of our properties will be, subject to lock-out provisions. Lock-out provisions could materially restrict us from selling or otherwise disposing of or refinancing properties when we may desire to do so. Lock-out provisions may prohibit us from reducing the outstanding indebtedness with respect to any properties, refinancing such indebtedness on a non-recourse basis at maturity, or increasing the amount of indebtedness with respect to such properties. Lock-out provisions could impair our ability to take other actions during the lock-out period that could be in the best interests of our stockholders and, therefore, may have an adverse impact on the value of our shares relative to the value that would result if the lock-out provisions did not exist. In particular, lock-out provisions could preclude us from participating in major transactions that could result in a disposition of our assets or a change in control even though that disposition or change in control might be in the best interests of our stockholders. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, we may not be able to finance or refinance our properties, which could reduce the amount of cash distributions we can make. If mortgage debt is unavailable at reasonable rates, we may not be able to finance the purchase of properties. In addition, we run the risk of being unable to refinance mortgage debt when the loans come due or of being unable to refinance such debt on favorable terms. If interest rates are higher when we refinance such debt, our income could be reduced. We may be unable to refinance such debt at appropriate times, which may require us to sell properties on terms that are not advantageous to us or could result in the foreclosure of such properties. If any of these events occur, our cash flows would be reduced. This, in turn, would reduce cash available for distribution to our stockholders and may hinder our ability to raise more capital by issuing more stock or by borrowing more money. 29 Some of our mortgage loans have “due on sale” provisions. Some of our outstanding mortgage indebtedness currently does contain, and we may in the future finance our property acquisitions using financing with, “due-on-sale” and/or “due-on-encumbrance” clauses. Due-on-sale clauses in mortgages allow a mortgage lender to demand full repayment of the mortgage loan if the borrower sells the mortgaged property. Similarly, due-on-encumbrance clauses allow a mortgage lender to demand full repayment if the borrower uses the real estate securing the mortgage loan as security for another loan. These clauses may cause the maturity date of such mortgage loans to be accelerated and such financing to become due. In such event, we may be required to sell our properties on an all-cash basis, to acquire new financing in connection with the sale, or to provide seller financing. It is not our intent to provide seller financing, although it may be necessary or advisable for us to do so in order to facilitate the sale of a property. It is unknown whether the holders of mortgages encumbering our properties will require such acceleration or whether other mortgage financing will be available. Such factors will depend on the mortgage market and on financial and economic conditions existing at the time of such sale or refinancing. Hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. In the future we may use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks. These instruments involve risks, such as the risk that the counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and that a court could rule that such agreements are not legally enforceable. In addition, we may be limited in the type and amount of hedging transactions that we may use in the future by our need to satisfy the REIT gross income tests under the Code. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of our hedging strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. Moreover, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. We cannot provide any assurance that any future hedging strategy and the derivatives that we may use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses. Risks Related to Qualification and Operation as a REIT If we fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our operations and distributions to stockholders would be adversely impacted. We intend to continue to be organized and to operate so as to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Code. A REIT generally is not subject to corporate income tax on income it currently distributes to its stockholders. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex rules for which there are only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to maintain our qualification as a REIT. In addition, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly change the tax laws, possibly with retroactive effect, with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. If we were to fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we would face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distributions to our stockholders because: •we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to stockholders in computing our taxable income; •we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and increased state and local taxes; and •unless we are entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions under the Code, we could not re-elect REIT status until the fifth calendar year after the year in which we failed to maintain our qualification as a REIT. In addition, if we were to fail to maintain our qualification as a REIT, our cash available for stockholder distributions would be reduced, and we would no longer be required to make distributions. As a result of these factors, our failure to maintain our qualification as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, force us to borrow additional funds or sell assets to pay corporate tax obligations and adversely affect the value of our common stock. Even if we maintain our qualification as a REIT, we may be subject to other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flows. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, taxes on net income from certain “prohibited transactions,” tax on income from certain activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, franchise, property and transfer taxes. In addition, we could, in certain circumstances, be required to pay an excise or penalty tax (which could be significant in amount) in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain our qualification as a REIT. Also, our subsidiaries that are taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to regular corporate federal, state and local taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease our earnings and our cash available for distributions to stockholders. 30 Complying with REIT requirements may cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments. To maintain our qualification as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy requirements concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our stockholders and the ownership of our capital stock. In order to meet these tests, we may be required to forgo investments we might otherwise make. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our performance. In particular, we must ensure that, at the end of each calendar quarter, at least 75% of the value of our assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified real estate assets. The remainder of our investments in securities (other than government securities, securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries and qualified real estate assets) generally cannot include more than 10% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5% of the value of our assets (other than government securities, securities of taxable REIT subsidiaries and qualified real estate assets) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25% of the value of our total assets can be represented by the securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, we must correct the failure within 30 days after the end of such calendar quarter or qualify for certain statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our REIT qualification and suffering adverse tax consequences. In addition, we may be required to make distributions to stockholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. As a result, we may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, and may be unable to pursue investments that would otherwise be advantageous to us in order to satisfy the source-of-income or asset diversification requirements. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to acquire, and, in certain cases, maintain ownership of certain attractive investments. We may need to incur additional borrowings or issue additional securities to meet the REIT minimum distribution requirement and to avoid excise tax. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our annual real estate investment trust taxable income (excluding any net capital gain and before application of the dividends paid deduction). To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we are subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which certain distributions paid by us with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of (i) 85% of our ordinary income for that year, (ii) 95% of our capital gain net income for that year and (iii) 100% of our undistributed taxable income from prior years. Although we intend to pay dividends to our stockholders in a manner that allows us to meet the 90% distribution requirement and avoid this 4% excise tax, we cannot provide any assurance that we will always be able to do so. The prohibited transactions tax may limit our ability to dispose of our properties. A REIT’s taxable income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property other than foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Although the Code provides a safe harbor to the characterization of the sale of real property by a REIT as a prohibited transaction, we cannot provide any assurance that we can comply with the safe harbor or that we will avoid owning property that may be characterized as held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. Consequently, we may choose not to engage in certain sales of our properties or may conduct such sales through a taxable REIT subsidiary. We may make distributions consisting of both stock and cash, in which case stockholders may be required to pay income taxes in excess of the cash distributions they receive. We may make distributions that are paid in cash and stock at the election of each stockholder and may distribute other forms of taxable stock dividends. Taxable stockholders receiving such distributions will be required to include the full amount of the distributions as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a result, stockholders may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such distributions in excess of the cash received. If a stockholder sells the stock that it receives in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the distribution, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. Furthermore, in the case of certain non-U.S. stockholders, we may be required to withhold federal income tax with respect to taxable dividends, including taxable dividends that are paid in stock. In addition, if a significant number of our stockholders decide to sell their shares in order to pay taxes owed with respect to taxable stock dividends, it may put downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. 31 Our ownership of taxable REIT subsidiaries will be subject to limitations, and our transactions with taxable REIT subsidiaries will cause us to be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain income or deductions if those transactions are not conducted on arm’s-length terms. Overall, no more than 25% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. In addition, the Code limits the deductibility of interest paid or accrued by a taxable REIT subsidiary to its parent REIT to assure that the taxable REIT subsidiary is subject to an appropriate level of corporate taxation. The Code also imposes a 100% excise tax on certain transactions between a taxable REIT subsidiary and its parent REIT that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. We intend to monitor the value of our investment in our taxable REIT subsidiaries for the purpose of ensuring compliance with taxable REIT subsidiary ownership limitations and intend to structure our transactions with our taxable REIT subsidiary on terms that we believe are arm’s-length to avoid incurring the 100% excise tax described above. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 25% taxable REIT subsidiary securities limitation or to avoid application of the 100% excise tax. If our operating partnership were classified as a “publicly traded partnership” taxable as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Code, we would cease to maintain our qualification as a REIT and would suffer other adverse tax consequences. We intend for our operating partnership to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If the IRS were to successfully challenge the status of our operating partnership as a partnership, however, our operating partnership generally would be taxable as a corporation. In such event, we likely would fail to maintain our status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and the resulting corporate income tax burden would reduce the amount of distributions that our operating partnership could make to us. This would substantially reduce the cash available to pay distributions to our stockholders. In addition, if any of the partnerships or limited liability companies through which the operating partnership owns its properties, in whole or in part, loses its characterization as a partnership and is not otherwise disregarded for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to taxation as a corporation, thereby reducing distributions to the operating partnership. Such a recharacterization of an underlying property owner could also threaten our ability to maintain our REIT qualification. Our stockholders may be restricted from acquiring or transferring certain amounts of our common stock. Certain provisions of the Code and the stock ownership limits in our charter may inhibit market activity in our capital stock and restrict our business combination opportunities. In order to maintain our qualification as a REIT, five or fewer individuals, as defined in the Code, may not own, beneficially or constructively, more than 50% in value of our issued and outstanding stock at any time during the last half of a taxable year. Attribution rules in the Code determine if any individual or entity beneficially or constructively owns our capital stock under this requirement. Additionally, at least 100 persons must beneficially own our capital stock during at least 335 days of a taxable year. To help insure that we meet these tests, our charter restricts the acquisition and ownership of shares of our stock. Our charter, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Unless exempted by our board of directors, our charter prohibits any person from beneficially or constructively owning more than 9.8% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock or capital stock. Our board of directors may not grant an exemption from these restrictions to any proposed transferee whose ownership in excess of ownership limits would result in our failing to maintain our qualification as a REIT. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply, however, if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to maintain our qualification as a REIT. The ability of our board of directors to revoke our REIT election without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders. Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best interest to continue to maintain our qualification as a REIT. If we cease to maintain our qualification as a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income without the benefit of the dividends paid deduction and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on the total return to our stockholders. Dividends paid by REITs generally do not qualify for the reduced tax rates available for some dividends. The maximum tax rate applicable to income from “qualified dividends” paid to U.S. stockholders that are individuals, trusts and estates is 20%. Dividends paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for the reduced rates. Although the tax rates applicable to qualified dividends do not adversely affect the taxation of REITs or dividends paid by REITs, the more favorable rates applicable to qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of REITs, including our common stock. 32 Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The provisions of the Code applicable to REITs substantially limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. Any income from a hedging transaction that we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes, price changes or currency fluctuations with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets does not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the gross income requirements applicable to REITs. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both of the gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through taxable REIT subsidiaries. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because any taxable REIT subsidiary that we may form would be subject to tax on gains or expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, losses in taxable REIT subsidiaries will generally not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward against future taxable income in the taxable REIT subsidiaries. We may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes that could reduce the market price of our common stock. At any time, the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to REITs or the administrative interpretations of those laws may be amended. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation, or interpretation may take effect retroactively. We and our stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in the federal income tax laws, regulations or administrative interpretations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 