ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our business is highly regulated. Changes in applicable laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to numerous foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations, which are subject to change and which may impose significant costs, limitations or prohibitions on the way we conduct or expand our business. These regulations govern or affect, among other things, interest rates and other fees, check cashing fees, lending practices, recording and reporting of certain financial transactions, privacy of personal consumer information and collection practices. As we develop new product and service offerings, we may become subject to additional federal, state and local regulations. State and local governments may also seek to impose new licensing requirements or interpret or enforce existing requirements in new ways. In addition, changes in current laws and future laws or regulations may restrict or eliminate our ability to continue our current methods of operation or expand our operations, such laws are regularly proposed, introduced or adopted at the state and federal level. Changes in laws or regulations, or our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. A federal law that imposes a national cap on our fees and interest would likely eliminate our ability to continue our current operations. Various anti-cash advance legislation has been proposed or introduced in the U.S. Congress. Congressional members continue to receive pressure from consumer advocates and other industry opposition groups to adopt such legislation. Most recently, on February 26, 2009, U.S. Senator Richard Durbin introduced a bill in Congress to establish a federal cap of 36% on the effective annual percentage rate ("APR") on all consumer loan transactions. Likewise, U.S. Representative Luis Gutierrez introduced a bill on the same day that would, among other things, place a 15 cent per dollar borrowed ($.15/$1.00) cap on fees for cash advances, ban rollovers (payment of a fee to extend the term of a cash advance or other short-term financing), and require us to offer an extended payment plan that severely restricts our cash advance product. Also, the Obama Administration agenda states that U.S. President Barack Obama and Vice President Joseph Biden seek to extend a 36% APR limit to all consumer credit transactions. Any federal legislative or regulatory action that severely restricts or prohibits cash advance and similar services, like the Guterrez bill, if enacted, could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Any federal law that would impose a national 36% APR limit on our services, like that proposed in the Durbin bill, if enacted, would likely eliminate our ability to continue our current operations. Our industry is regulated under federal law and subject to federal and state unfair and deceptive practices statutes. Our failure to comply with these regulations and statutes could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Although states provide the primary regulatory framework under which we offer advances, certain federal laws also impact our business. See "Item 1. Business—Federal Regulation." We must comply with the federal Truth-in-Lending Act and Regulation Z adopted under that Act. Additionally, we are subject to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. We are also subject to the Bank Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Act, and the PATRIOT Act. Any failure to comply with any of these federal laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Our marketing efforts and the representations we make about our products and services also are subject to federal and state unfair and deceptive practices statutes. The FTC enforces the Federal Trade Commission Act and the state attorneys general and private plaintiffs enforce the analogous state statutes. If we are found to have violated any of these statutes, that violation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our industry is highly regulated under state law. Changes in state laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is regulated under a variety of enabling state statutes, including cash advance, deferred presentment, check cashing, money transmission, small loan and credit services organization laws, all of which are subject to change and which may impose significant costs, limitations or prohibitions on the way we conduct or expand our business. As of December 31, 2008, 38 states and the District of Columbia had specific laws that permitted cash advances or a similar form of short-term consumer loans. As of December 31, 2008, we operated in 33 of these 38 states. Currently, we do not conduct business in the five remaining states or in the District of Columbia, and will stop conducting business in New Hampshire in early 2009, because we do not believe it is economically attractive to operate in these jurisdictions due to specific legislative restrictions, such as interest rate ceilings, an unattractive population density or unattractive location characteristics. However, we may open centers in any of these states or the District of Columbia if we believe doing so may become economically attractive because of a change in any of these variables. The remaining 12 states do not have laws specifically authorizing the cash advance or short-term consumer finance business, however other laws may permit us to offer products and services in these states. During the last few years, legislation has been introduced or adopted in some states that prohibits or severely restricts our products and services. In 2008, bills that would severely restrict or effectively prohibit cash advances if adopted as law were introduced in 21 states. Such new or modified legislation could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. For example, in response to new legislation in Virginia, we have developed an open-ended line of credit product and made changes to our cash advance product. On February 25, 2009, the Virginia legislature passed a bill that would restrict us from offering both the cash advance product and the open-ended line of credit product at the same center. If the bill is signed by the Virginia governor and becomes law, we will be prohibited from offering the open-ended line of credit product to customers in Virginia, which may lower our revenues and profits in that state. As a result of legislation in New Hampshire that became effective in January 2009, we concluded that operating in that state was no longer economically viable and intend to close all of our New Hampshire centers in 2009. In addition, Arizona and Mississippi have sunset provisions in their cash advance laws that require renewal of the laws by these state legislatures at periodic intervals and will expire in 2010 in Arizona and 2012 in Mississippi, respectively, if no further action is taken. Laws prohibiting cash advances and similar products and services or making them less profitable, or even unprofitable, could be passed in any other state at any time or existing enabling laws could expire or be amended, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. For instance, in November 2008, a new Ohio law became effective that capped interest rates on cash advances and limited the number of advances a customer may take in any one year. In response to this legislation, we now offer a small loan product that is not as profitable as our former cash advance product, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Statutes authorizing cash advance and similar products and services typically provide the state agencies that regulate banks and financial institutions with significant regulatory powers to administer and enforce the law. In most states, we are required to apply for a license, file periodic written reports regarding business operations and undergo comprehensive state examinations to ensure that we comply 19 Table of Contents with applicable laws. Under statutory authority, state regulators have broad discretionary power and may impose new licensing requirements, interpret or enforce existing regulatory requirements in different ways or issue new administrative rules, even if not contained in state statutes, that affect the way we do business and may force us to terminate or modify our operations in particular states. They may also impose rules that are generally adverse to our industry. Any new licensing requirements or rules, or new interpretations of existing licensing requirements or rules, or failure to follow licensing requirements or rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In some cases, we rely on the interpretations of the staff of state regulatory bodies with respect to the laws and regulations of their respective jurisdictions. These staff interpretations generally are not binding legal authority and may be subject to challenge in administrative or judicial proceedings. Additionally, as the staff of state regulatory bodies change, it is possible that their interpretations of applicable laws and regulations also may change to the detriment of our business. As a result, our reliance on staff interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, state attorneys general and banking regulators are scrutinizing cash advances and other alternative financial products and services and taking actions that require us to modify, suspend or cease operations in their respective states. For example, as a result of an adverse ruling in July 2007 in a case brought by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking, we suspended our operations and subsequently closed all of our centers in Pennsylvania. See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 12. Commitments and Contingencies." The closures in Pennsylvania have had an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Also, in March 2008, the Attorney General of Arkansas distributed letters to 60 companies operating under the Check Cashers Act. The letter demanded that we cease and desist offering deferred presentment transactions within the State of Arkansas. As a result, we agreed to close all of our centers in Arkansas in October 2008 and the Arkansas Attorney General agreed not to bring suit against us. Similar or additional actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our industry is subject to various local rules and regulations. Changes in these local regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to state and federal laws and regulations, our business can be subject to various local rules and regulations such as local zoning regulations. Any actions taken in the future by local zoning boards or other local governing bodies to require special use permits for, or impose other restrictions on providers of cash advance and similar services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, we may also choose to operate in a location even if applicable legislation or regulations cause us to lose money on our operations in that location. For example, we currently operate at a loss in Canada. Any similar actions or events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our foreign operations are subject to additional laws and regulations. Our inability to operate in the United Kingdom or Canada in compliance with applicable laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In the United Kingdom, consumer lending is governed by the Consumer Credit Act of 1974, which was amended by the Consumer Credit Act of 2006, and related rules and regulations. Our subsidiaries in the United Kingdom must maintain licenses from the Office of Fair Trading, which is responsible for regulating consumer credit and competition, for policy-making, and for consumer protection. The United Kingdom also has strict rules regarding the presentation, form and content of loan agreements, 20 Table of Contents including statutory warnings and the layout of financial information. Our non-compliance with these rules could render a loan agreement unenforceable. Our inability to obtain and maintain the required licenses or to comply with the applicable rules or regulations in the United Kingdom could limit our expansion opportunities and/or could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In Canada, the Canadian Parliament amended the federal usury law to transfer jurisdiction and the development of laws and regulation of our industry to the respective provinces. To date, four provinces have proposed substantive regulation of our industry. In general, the proposed regulations require lenders to be licensed, set maximum fees and regulate collection practices. However, the proposed regulations may undergo significant additional revisions. Our expansion in Canada may be limited due to this uncertain regulatory landscape. We are currently operating at a loss in Canada in anticipation of expanding operations after regulations are adopted. Further, our inability to comply with new regulations may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to find additional growth opportunities may be limited. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or further expand our market presence in our current markets or successfully enter new markets through the opening of new centers or acquisitions. Moreover, the start-up costs and the losses from initial operations attributable to each newly opened center place demands upon our liquidity and cash flow, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy these demands. We currently lack product and business diversification; as a result, our revenues and earnings may be disproportionately negatively impacted by external factors and may be more susceptible to fluctuations than more diversified companies. Our primary business activity is offering cash advance services. If we are unable to maintain our cash advance services business and/or diversify our operations, our revenues and earnings could decline. Our current lack of product and business diversification could inhibit our opportunities for growth, reduce our revenues and profits and make us more susceptible to earnings fluctuations than many of our competitors who are more diversified and provide other services such as pawn lending, title lending or other similar services. External factors, such as changes in laws and regulations, new entrants and enhanced competition, could also make it more difficult for us to operate as profitably as a more diversified company could operate. Any internal or external change in our industry could result in a decline in our revenues and earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our inability to efficiently and profitably introduce or manage new products or alternative methods for conducting business could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In 2007, we began selling money orders and providing money transfer services. We also began offering prepaid debit cards in 2007 as an agent of an OTS-regulated bank. In 2008, we began facilitating the offering of tax preparation services provided by a third party and cash advances from a third-party lender to customers on our website. In addition in 2008, we began offering open-ended lines of credit to customers in Virginia and small loans to customers in Ohio. We also intend to introduce additional products and services in the future. In order to offer new products, we need to comply with additional regulatory and licensing requirements. Each of these changes, alternative methods of conducting business and new products and services are subject to risk and uncertainty and require significant investment in time and capital, including additional marketing expenses, legal costs and other incremental start-up costs. Due to our lack of experience in offering alternative products and services, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully introduce any new products or 21 Table of Contents services or do so in a timely manner. Furthermore, we cannot predict the demand for new products or services, nor do we know if we will be able to offer these new products or services in an efficient manner or on a profitable basis. Our failure to do so, or low customer demand for any of these new services or products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Current and future litigation and regulatory proceedings against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is subject to lawsuits and regulatory proceedings that could generate adverse publicity and cause us to incur substantial expenditures. See "Item 3. Legal Proceedings." Adverse rulings in some of these lawsuits or regulatory proceedings could significantly impair our business and/or force us to cease doing business in one or more states. We are likely to be subject to further litigation and proceedings in the future. The consequences of an adverse ruling in any current or future litigation or proceeding could cause us to have to refund fees and/or interest collected, refund the principal amount of advances, pay treble or other multiple damages, pay monetary penalties and/or modify or terminate our operations in particular states. We may also be subject to adverse publicity. Defense of any lawsuits or proceedings, even if successful, requires substantial time and attention of our senior officers and other management personnel that would otherwise be spent on other aspects of our business and requires the expenditure of significant amounts for legal fees and other related costs. Settlement of lawsuits may also result in significant payments and modifications to our operations. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse economic conditions may significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, results from operations, financial condition and access to liquidity. The current global economic crisis may adversely affect our business in several ways. For example, the rise in unemployment levels will likely reduce the number of customers who qualify for our products and services, which in turn may reduce our revenues. Similarly, reduced consumer confidence and spending may decrease the demand for our products. Also, we are unable to predict how the widespread loss of jobs, housing foreclosures and general economic uncertainty may affect our loss experience. Our methodology for establishing our provision for doubtful accounts is based in large part on our historic loss experience. If customer behavior changes as a result of current economic conditions, our provision may be inadequate. Additionally, because we rely on our credit facility to fund customer advances, conditions in the credit markets could cause our access to liquidity to be restrained or even eliminated as a result of a default by our lenders, a failure by us to comply with covenants under our credit agreement or our inability to renew, extend or modify our existing credit facility. If we are unable to maintain access to external sources of liquidity, our ability to finance our current operations or future dividends would be impaired. Lastly, given the unprecedented nature of the current economic crisis, our business may be adversely affected in ways that we are unable to anticipate. The concentration of our revenues in certain states could adversely affect us. We operated centers in 35 states during the year ended December 31, 2008, and our five largest states (measured by total revenues) accounted for approximately 48% of our total revenues. While we believe we have a diverse geographic presence, for the near term we expect that significant revenues will continue to be generated by certain states, largely due to the currently prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory, competitive and other conditions in those states. For example, during 2008, California, Texas and Florida each accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues. Changes to prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory or any other conditions in the markets in which we operate could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and services, a decline in our revenues 22 Table of Contents or an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts that could result in a deterioration of our financial condition. A regulatory change similar to recent changes in Ohio and New Hampshire, for example, or an action by a state regulator similar to those in Pennsylvania and Arkansas, in any one of our larger states may have a material adverse affect on our business, prospects, results of operation or financial condition. Competition in our industry could cause us to lose market share or reduce our interest and fees, possibly resulting in a decline in our revenues and earnings. The industry in which we operate has low barriers to entry and is highly fragmented and very competitive. We believe that the market may become even more competitive as the industry matures and/or consolidates. We compete with services provided by traditional financial institutions, such as overdraft protection, and with other cash advance providers, small loan providers, credit unions, short-term consumer lenders, other financial service entities and other retail businesses that offer consumer loans or other products and services that are similar to ours. We also compete with companies offering cash advances and short-term loans over the internet as well as by phone. Some of these competitors have larger local or regional customer bases, more locations and substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. As a result of this increasing competition, we could lose market share or we may need to reduce our interest and fees, possibly resulting in a decline in our revenues and earnings. We depend to a substantial extent on borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund our liquidity needs, including cash dividends. We have an existing revolving credit facility that allows us to borrow up to $270.0 million, assuming we are in compliance with a number of covenants and conditions, including, but not limited to, a senior leverage limitation which is 2 times trailing twelve month EBITDA as defined in the credit agreement and, as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $210.0 million. Because we typically use substantially all of our available cash generated from our operations to repay borrowings on our revolving credit facility on a current basis, we have limited cash balances and we expect that a substantial portion of our liquidity needs, including any amounts to pay future quarterly cash dividends on our common stock, will be funded primarily from borrowings under our revolving credit facility. While we had approximately $79.1 million of unused borrowings under this facility as of December 31, 2008, the senior leverage covenant restricted our additional availability, to $13.9 million. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, our borrowings are historically the lowest during the first calendar quarter and increase during the remainder of the year. If our existing sources of liquidity are insufficient to satisfy our financial needs, we may need to raise additional debt or equity in the future. If we are unable to do so, our ability to pay future dividends or finance our current operations or potential growth will likely be impaired. Media reports and public perception of cash advances and similar loans as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Consumer advocacy groups and certain media reports advocate for governmental and regulatory action to prohibit or severely restrict our products and services. The consumer groups and media reports typically focus on the cost to a consumer and typically characterize our products and services as predatory or abusive toward consumers. If this negative characterization of advances becomes widely accepted by consumers, demand for our products and services could significantly decrease, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Negative perception of our products and services could also result in increased regulatory scrutiny and litigation, encourage restrictive local zoning rules, make it more difficult to obtain government approvals necessary to open new centers and cause industry trade groups, such as the CFSA, to promote policies 23 Table of Contents that cause our business to be less profitable. These trends could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. The provision for doubtful accounts may increase and net income may decrease if we are unable to collect customers' personal checks that are returned due to non-sufficient funds ("NSF") in the customers' accounts or other reasons. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we deposited or presented an Automated Clearing House ("ACH") authorization for approximately 5.9% and 6.2%, respectively, of all the customer checks we received and approximately 75% and 76%, respectively, of these deposited customer checks were returned unpaid because of non-sufficient funds in the customers' bank accounts or because of closed accounts or stop-payment orders. Total charge-offs, net of recoveries, for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 were approximately $138.3 million and $131.9 million, respectively. If the number of customer checks that we deposit increases or the percentage of the customers' returned checks that we charge-off increases, our provision for doubtful accounts will increase and our net income will decrease. We have not had a sufficient volume of ACH authorizations to determine whether we will have a significantly different recovery experience than for deposited checks. If our estimates of losses are not adequate, our provision for doubtful accounts would increase. This would result in a decline in our future earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses. We also maintain an accrual for third-party lender losses for loans and certain related fees that are not paid by the customers for all loans that are processed by us for the third-party lender in Texas. To estimate the appropriate allowance for doubtful accounts and accrual for third-party lender losses, we consider total amounts outstanding, historical charge-offs, our current collection patterns and the current economic trends in the markets we serve. During 2008, in selected states, we began accepting ACH authorizations in lieu of personal checks from customers. We expect this practice to expand to other states in the near future. Currently, we have a limited history collecting cash advances backed by ACH authorizations and cannot anticipate the extent to which customers may revoke such authorization. To the extent the collection patterns of loans backed by ACH authorizations vary from collection patterns of loans backed by personal checks, our estimate of the allowance for doubtful accounts may be inadequate and our future profitability may be effected. At December 31, 2008, the total of our allowance for doubtful accounts and accrual for third-party lender losses decreased to $63.4 million from $65.9 million at December 31, 2007. This amount, however, is an estimate. If our actual losses are greater than our allowance for doubtful accounts and accrual for third-party lender losses, our provision for doubtful accounts would increase. This could result in a decline in our future earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We have a significant amount of goodwill which is subject to periodic review and testing for impairment. A significant portion of our total assets at December 31, 2008 is comprised of goodwill. Under generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill is subject to periodic review and testing to determine if it is impaired. These tests require projections of future cash flows. Unfavorable trends in our industry and unfavorable events or disruptions to our operations can affect these projections and estimates. Significant impairment charges, although not affecting cash flow, could have a material impact on our operating results and financial position. 24 Table of Contents Our offering of extended payment plans to customers may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In July 2007, we expanded the number of states where we allow customers who could not timely repay their advances to qualify for extended payment plans to include every state where we offer advances. We previously offered extended payment plans in only certain states as required under applicable state law. The ability of a customer to defer payment will likely increase the average duration of a cash advance, which may in turn affect our revenues, loss experience and provision for doubtful accounts. The expansion of our operations into Canada and the United Kingdom may contribute materially to increased costs and negatively affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We have devoted significant management time and financial resources to expanding our operations outside of the United States. Our international operations have increased the complexity of our organization and the administrative, operating and legal cost of operating our business. Penetrating new markets will likely require additional marketing expenses and incremental start-up costs. We may decide to reduce fees, or even temporarily operate centers at a loss, in order to build brand recognition and establish a foothold in these new markets. For example, in Canada, we have opened ten centers that are currently not profitable in anticipation of more favorable provincial legislation. Additionally, as a foreign business we are subject to local regulations, tariffs and labor controls to which other domestic businesses are not subject. Our financial results also may be negatively affected by tax rates in the United Kingdom and Canada or as a result of withholding requirements and tax treaties with those countries. Moreover, if political, regulatory or economic conditions deteriorate in the United Kingdom and Canada, our ability to expand and maintain our international operations could be impaired or the costs of doing so could increase, either of which could further erode our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur substantial additional debt, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition by limiting our ability to obtain financing in the future and react to changes in our business. We may incur substantial additional debt in the future. As of December 31, 2008, our total debt was approximately $195.0 million, $1.1 million in letters of credit had been issued pursuant to our credit facility and our stockholders' equity was approximately $171.3 million. The total availability under our current credit facility is $270.0 million, which we may borrow at any time, subject to compliance with certain covenants and conditions Due to the seasonal nature of our business, our total debt is historically the lowest during the first calendar quarter and then increases during the remainder of the year. If we incur substantial additional debt, it could have important consequences to our business. For example, it could: •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt obligations, which will reduce our funds available for dividends, working capital, capital expenditures, the development of new or replacement products and services, and further geographic expansion; •restrict our operational flexibility through restrictive covenants that will likely limit our ability to, explore certain business opportunities, dispose of assets and take other actions; •limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; •limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future, if we need them, due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt instruments; 25 Table of Contents •make us vulnerable to interest rate increases, because a portion of our borrowings is, and will continue to be, at variable rates of interest; and •place us at a disadvantage compared to our competitors that have proportionately less debt. The terms of our debt limits our ability to incur additional debt but do not prohibit us from incurring additional debt. When debt levels increase, the related risks that we now face will also increase. If we fail to generate sufficient cash flow from future operations to meet our debt service obligations, we may need to seek refinancing of all or a portion of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing in order to meet our obligations with respect to our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing on satisfactory terms or at all. We depend on loans and cash management services from banks to operate our business. If banks decide to stop making loans and/or providing cash management services to companies in our industry, it could have a material adverse affect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on borrowings under our revolving credit facility to fund our products and services, capital expenditures to build new centers and other needs. If our current or potential credit banks decide not to lend money to companies in our industry, we could face higher borrowing costs, limitations on our ability to maintain or expand our business as well as possible cash shortages, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Certain banks have notified us and other companies in the cash advance and check-cashing industries that they will no longer maintain bank accounts for these companies due to reputational risks and increased compliance costs of servicing money services businesses and other cash intensive industries. If one of our larger depository banks request that we close our bank accounts or put other restrictions on how we use their services, we could face higher costs of managing our cash and limitations on our ability to maintain or expand our business, both of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We use an electronic check conversion process to electronically present most of our past due checks to the customers' bank accounts. This process uses either the Automated Clearing House ("ACH") or the VISA Point-of-Sale ("VISA POS") network. We depend on our banks to settle our ACH transactions and on VISA and certain participating financial institutions to operate the VISA POS system. If our banks decide to no longer process our ACH transactions due to increased credit risk or other reasons or if a financial institution were to exit the VISA POS payment network or if VISA stopped supporting this network, our ability to collect on past due accounts could be adversely affected and our cost of collections could increase. Our business is seasonal in nature, which causes our revenues, collection rates and earnings to fluctuate. These fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is seasonal due to the impact of fluctuating demand for our products and services and fluctuating collection rates throughout the year. Demand has historically been highest in the third and fourth quarters of each year, corresponding to the back-to-school and holiday seasons, and lowest in the first quarter of each year, corresponding to our customers' receipt of income tax refunds. Typically, our provision for doubtful accounts and allowance for doubtful accounts are lowest as a percentage of revenues in the first quarter of each year, corresponding to our customers' receipt of income tax refunds, and increase as a percentage of revenues for the remainder of each year. This seasonality requires us to manage our cash flows over the course of the year. If our revenues or collections were to fall substantially below what we would normally expect during certain periods, our ability to service our debt, pay dividends on our common stock, and meet our other liquidity requirements may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents In addition, our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future because of the seasonal nature of our business. Therefore, our quarterly revenues and results of operations are difficult to forecast, which in turn could cause our quarterly results to not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our failure to meet expectations could cause a material drop in the market price of our common stock. Because we maintain a significant supply of cash in our centers, we may be subject to cash shortages due to employee and third- party theft and errors. We also may be subject to liability as a result of crimes at our centers. Because our business requires us to maintain a significant supply of cash in each of our centers, we are subject to the risk of cash shortages resulting from employee and third-party theft and errors. Although we have implemented various programs to reduce these risks, maintain insurance coverage for theft and provide security for our employees and facilities, we cannot assure you that employee and third- party theft and errors will not occur. Cash shortages from employee and third-party theft and errors were approximately $2.1 million (0.31% of total revenues) in 2008, $2.4 million (0.34% of total revenues) in 2007 and $2.0 million (0.29% of total revenues) in 2006. The extent of these cash shortages could increase as we expand the nature and scope of our products and services. Theft and errors could lead to cash shortages and could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. It is also possible that crimes such as armed robberies may be committed at our centers. We could experience liability or adverse publicity arising from such crimes. For example, we may be liable if an employee, customer or bystander suffers bodily injury, emotional distress or death. Any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Any disruption in the availability of our information systems could adversely affect operations at our centers. We rely upon our information systems to manage and operate our centers and business. Each center is part of an information network that is designed to permit us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances on a daily basis and report revenues and expenses to our headquarters. Our back-up systems and security measures could fail to prevent a disruption in our information systems. Any disruption in our information systems could adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our centralized headquarters functions are susceptible to disruption by catastrophic events, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our headquarters building is located in Spartanburg, South Carolina. Our information systems and administrative and management processes are primarily provided to our zone and regional management and to our centers from this centralized location, and they could be disrupted if a catastrophic event, such as a tornado, power outage or act of terror, destroyed or severely damaged our headquarters. Any of these catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our ability to maintain or further expand our business depends on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •the prevailing laws and regulatory environment of each jurisdiction in which we operate or seek to operate, which are subject to change at any time; •our ability to obtain and maintain any regulatory approvals, government permits or licenses that may be required; 27 Table of Contents •our ability to identify, implement and manage new products and services that are compatible with our business; •the degree of competition in existing markets; •our ability to maintain current customers and attract new customers; •our ability to compete for expansion opportunities in suitable locations; •our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified personnel; •our ability to adapt our infrastructure and systems to accommodate new or replacement products and services; and •our ability to maintain adequate financing for our expansion plans. We cannot assure you that our systems, procedures, controls and existing personnel will be adequate to support new or replacement products and services. Our new international operations increase the complexity of our organization, our administrative costs and the regulatory risks we face and, therefore, could destabilize our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations depend substantially on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and unpredictable regulations and to implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting systems. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement our business strategy profitably in geographic areas or product lines we do not currently serve. Regular turnover among our managers and employees at our centers makes it more difficult for us to operate our centers and increases our costs of operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, the annual turnover among our center managers was approximately 38% and among our other center employees was approximately 94%. Approximately 47% of the turnover has traditionally occurred in the first six months following the hire date of our center managers and employees. This turnover increases our cost of operations and makes it more difficult to operate our centers. If we are unable to retain our employees in the future, our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock has declined significantly, and we could face possible delisting from the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). Shares of our common stock are currently listed on the NYSE. As of March 2, 2009, the closing price of our common stock price was $0.95 per share, and our market capitalization was approximately $58.6 million. As of December 31, 2008, our total stockholders' equity was approximately $171.3 million. We would fall below the NYSE's quantitative listing standards if (1) our average market capitalization fell below $75.0 million over any consecutive 30-trading-day period and, at the same time, total stockholders' equity fell below $75.0 million; (2) our average market capitalization fell below $25 million over any consecutive 30-trading-day period; or (3) the average closing price of common stock fell below $1.00 per share for any consecutive 30-trading-day period. While we are currently in compliance with the NYSE's continuing listing requirements, we cannot assure you that we will remain in compliance in light of the current economic crisis, which has been driving down the price of stocks generally, and financial stocks in particular. If we do not meet the NYSE's continuing listing standards, we will be notified by the NYSE and we will be required to take corrective action to meet the continuing listing standards; otherwise our common stock will be delisted from the NYSE. 28 Table of Contents If our common stock is delisted, or if it becomes apparent to us that we will be unable to meet the NYSE's continuing listing standards in the near future, we may seek to have our common stock listed or quoted on another national securities exchange or quotation system. However, we may be unable to list or quote our common stock on another national securities exchange or quotation system. Even if our common stock is listed or quoted on such other exchange or system, a delisting by the NYSE could hurt our investors by reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock. Additionally, a delisting could negatively affect us by reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively affect our ability to access public capital markets. A delisting would also reduce the value of our equity compensation plans, which could negatively impact our ability to retain key employees. Our Board of Directors may decide to further reduce dividends or stop paying dividends on our common stock. We are not required to pay any dividends. Any determination to pay dividends, and the amounts of any dividends, is at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on a number of factors, including: our receipt of dividends from our subsidiaries, our net income, results of operations and cash flows and our other cash needs; our financial position and capital requirements; general business conditions and the outlook for our company; general stock market conditions, including our stock price and our perception of the value of a regular dividend to our stockholders, in addition to any legal, tax, regulatory and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Also, our revolving credit facility restricts our ability to pay dividends depending on the absence of any default or event of default, our net income, the ratio of our consolidated senior funded debt to our consolidated EBITDA, our consolidated fixed charge coverage ratio and the maintenance of our net worth covenant (which terms and ratios are determined under our revolving credit facility). Our Board of Directors may at any time modify or revoke our dividend policy. We can redeem your common stock if you are or if you become a disqualified person. Federal and state laws and regulations applicable to providers of cash advance services or other financial products or services that we may introduce in the future may now or in the future restrict direct or indirect ownership or control of providers of such products or services by disqualified persons (such as convicted felons). Our certificate of incorporation provides that we may redeem shares of your common stock to the extent deemed necessary or advisable, in the sole judgment of our Board of Directors, to prevent the loss of, or to secure the reinstatement or renewal of, any license or permit from any governmental agency that is conditioned upon some or all of the holders of our common stock possessing prescribed qualifications or not possessing prescribed disqualifications. The redemption price will be the average closing sale price per share of our common stock during the 20-trading-day period ending on the second business day preceding the redemption date fixed by our Board of Directors. At the discretion of our Board of Directors, the redemption price may be paid in cash, debt or equity securities or a combination of cash and debt or equity securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 