ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Industry Our Total Assets, which impact revenue, are subject to significant fluctuations. Substantially all of our revenues are determined by the amount of our Total Assets. Under our investment advisory contracts with our clients, the investment management fee we receive is typically based on the market value of Total Assets. In addition, we receive asset-based distribution and/or service fees with respect to the open-end funds managed by Calamos Advisors pursuant to distribution plans adopted under provisions of Rule 12b-1 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (“Investment Company Act”). Rule 12b-1 fees typically are based on the market value of our Total Assets. Accordingly, a general or prolonged decline in the prices of securities usually has caused our revenues and net income to decline due to (i) the value of our Total Assets decreasing, and\or (ii) clients withdrawing funds in favor of investments they perceive to offer greater opportunity or lower risk. The securities markets have been and may continue to be highly volatile and securities prices may increase or decrease for many reasons beyond our control, including economic and political events and acts of terrorism in the United States and abroad. The continuation or worsening of these factors could lead to future declines in our Total Assets. To the extent we receive fee revenue from Total Assets attributable to financial leverage, any reduction in leverage used would adversely affect our Total Assets, revenue and net income. Leverage could be reduced due to an adverse change in interest rates, a decrease in the availability of credit on favorable terms or a determination to reduce or eliminate leverage on certain products if we determine the use of leverage is no longer in our clients’ best interests. Changes in laws, regulations or governmental policies due to the state of the economy could limit the sources and amounts of our revenues, increase our costs of doing business, decrease our profitability and materially, and adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to extensive domestic and international regulation which directly affects our cost of doing business. Industry regulations are designed to protect our clients and investors in our funds, as well as other third parties who deal with us, and to ensure the integrity of the financial markets. In recent years, governments and regulators have increased interest and oversight of the broad financial and investment management industry. Changes in laws, regulations or rules of self-regulatory organizations or in government policies, and unforeseen developments in litigation targeting the securities industry generally or us could limit the sources and amounts of our revenues, increase our costs of doing business, decrease our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business. Further, our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspension or barring of personnel, or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment advisor or broker-dealer. The soundness of other financial services institutions could adversely affect our earnings. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We and the investments we manage may have exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including: brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us or the accounts we manage to credit risk in the event of default of the counterparty. The asset management business is intensely competitive. We are subject to competition in all aspects of our business from asset management firms, mutual fund companies, commercial banks and thrift institutions, insurance companies, hedge funds, exchange traded funds, brokerage and investment banking firms, and other financial institutions including multinational firms and subsidiaries of diversified conglomerates. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than us and may offer a broader range of financial products and services across a larger number of markets. Some financial institutions operate in a more favorable regulatory environment and have proprietary products and distribution channels which may provide certain competitive advantages to them and their investment products. We compete primarily based on the investment performance of the investment portfolios offered as well as the scope and quality of investment advice and client service. We believe that competition within the investment management industry has and will continue to increase as a result of the state of the economy, the failure of financial institutions and consolidation and acquisition activity. Some of our investment portfolios have sales or redemption fees, which means that investors may be more willing to invest assets in competing funds without such fees. 16 If current or potential customers decide to use one of our competitors, we could face a significant decline in market share, Total Assets, revenues, and net income. Although we are moving to a more variable cost structure, some of our expenses remain fixed, especially over shorter periods of time, and other expenses may not decrease in proportion to any decrease in revenues. To the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. The investment management industry has relatively low barriers to entry and to the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. In order to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and service that make investors willing to pay our fees. In addition, the board of trustees of the funds managed by Calamos Advisors must make certain findings as to the reasonableness of its fees. We cannot guarantee investment returns and services that will allow us to maintain our current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future business could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from contracts that may be terminated on short notice. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from investment management agreements with the funds that are generally terminable by the funds’ board of trustees or a vote of the majority of the funds’ outstanding voting securities on not more than 60 days’ written notice. After an initial term, each Fund’s investment management agreement must be approved and renewed annually by the independent members of such Fund’s board of trustees and, in certain cases, by its stockholders. These investment management agreements may be terminated or not renewed for any number of reasons, including investment performance, advisory fee rates and financial market performance. Further, we may not be able to replace terminated or non-renewed agreements on favorable terms. The decrease in revenues that could result from any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our business. Investors in the open-end funds can redeem their investments in these funds at any time without prior notice, which could adversely affect our earnings. Open-end fund investors may redeem their investments in those funds at any time without prior notice. In a declining stock market, the pace of open-end fund redemptions could accelerate. As we experienced with some of our domestic equity strategies in 2012, poor performance relative to other asset management firms tends to, and did for 2012, result in decreased purchases and increased redemptions of open-end funds. The redemption of investments in open-end funds managed by Calamos Advisors may adversely affect our revenues, which are substantially dependent upon the assets under management in our open-end funds. Risks Related to Our Business The loss of key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are dependent on the efforts of our key executives as they are responsible for determining the strategic direction of our business, are integral to our brand and the positive business reputation we earned. Although we have employment arrangements we believe are competitive, we cannot guarantee that they will continue to act in their positions with us. We do not carry “key man” insurance on these key executives and the loss of the services of certain executives may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ownership structure is not uniformly understood and this may cause investor confusion and missed business opportunities. Our ownership structure is not uniformly understood within the financial community, including by current and potential investors and clients. Our market capitalization is often listed by reporting agents based only on outstanding common shares, which only reflects a percentage of the ownership of our business and does not give consideration to the Calamos Interests ownership in Calamos Investments LLC. As of December 31, 2012, the Calamos Interests owned approximately 77.9% of Calamos Investments LLC as well as all of our Class B common stock. The total consolidated market capitalization of the business, therefore, is often significantly understated. Potential misperceptions by investors and potential clients as to the value of our business may result in missed business opportunities that could have a negative effect on our operating results and stock price. Future investment performance of our investment strategies could adversely affect our Total Assets and expose us to litigation, either of which may reduce earnings. The relative performance of our investment strategies and consequently our Morningstar and Lipper ratings, are critical in retaining existing clients as well as attracting new clients. The performance of our investment strategies can fluctuate for a number of reasons, 17 including general market conditions and our investment decisions. If our strategies and ratings do not meet our clients’ and the market’s expectations, which was the case for some of our domestic equity strategies in 2012, we could, and did for 2012, suffer a decline in Total Assets and therefore in our earnings. In contrast, when our strategies and ratings experience strong results relative to the market, benchmark indices, competitor’s products, or other asset classes, clients’ allocations to our strategies may increase relative to their other investments and we could suffer withdrawals as our clients rebalance their investments to fit their asset allocation preferences. While clients do not have legal recourse against us solely on the basis of poor investment results, if our investment strategies perform poorly, we are more likely to become subject to litigation brought by dissatisfied clients. Any such litigation could be expensive and time-consuming, and could divert management resources from the management of our business. We depend on third-party distribution channels to market our investment products and access our client base. The potential investor base for open-end funds and separate accounts is limited, and our ability to distribute open-end funds and access clients for separate accounts is highly dependent on access to the retail distribution systems and client bases of national and regional securities firms, banks, insurance companies, defined contribution plan administrators and other intermediaries, which generally offer competing internally and externally managed investment products. For open-end funds, such intermediaries are paid for their services to fund shareholders, in part, through Rule 12b-1 fees and/or upfront commission payments by us, for which we receive Rule 12b-1 payments in the future. Those future payments allow us to pay or help us recover payments to selling firms. Access to such distribution systems and client bases is substantially dependent upon our ability to charge Rule 12b-1 fees to our funds. In addition to the foregoing, we pay some intermediaries supplemental compensation payments for various purposes. Our institutional separate account business depends on referrals from consultants, financial planners and other professional advisors, as well as from our existing clients. We cannot assure that these channels and client bases will continue to be accessible to us. The inability to have such access could have a material adverse effect on our assets under management and ultimately our earnings. As of December 31, 2012, a majority of our assets under management were attributable to accounts that we accessed through third-party intermediaries. These intermediaries generally may terminate their relationships with us on short notice. While we continue to diversify and add new distribution channels for open-end funds and managed accounts and a significant portion of the growth in our assets under management in recent years has been accessed through intermediaries, there has been a consolidation of and elimination of some financial service companies in recent years. The loss of any of the distribution channels afforded by these intermediaries, and the inability to access clients through new distribution channels could decrease our assets under management and adversely affect our results of operations and growth potential. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of our products. As of December 31, 2012, 19% and 13% of our Total Assets were concentrated in two Calamos sponsored funds and 26% and 15% of our total revenues were attributable to those funds. As a result, our operating results are particularly exposed to the performance of those funds and our ability to minimize redemptions from and maintain Total Assets in those funds. If a significant amount of investments are withdrawn from those funds for any reason, our revenues would decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. Further, given the size and prominence of those funds within our Company, any adverse performance of those funds may also indirectly affect the net purchases and redemptions in our other products, which in turn may negatively affect our operating results. We are dependent on Calamos Investments LLC to distribute cash to us in amounts sufficient to pay our tax liabilities and other expenses. Our ownership in Calamos Investments LLC is our primary asset and we have limited independent means of generating revenues. Calamos Investments LLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not itself subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, its taxable income is allocated on a pro rata basis to its members. Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of Calamos Investments LLC, and also incur expenses related to our operations. As the sole manager, we caused and in the future intend to cause Calamos Investments LLC to distribute cash to its members to the extent necessary to cover their tax liabilities, if any. If Calamos Investments LLC is unable to provide funds for such taxes or for any other purpose, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 18 We intend to pay regular dividends to our stockholders, but our ability to do so is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure, financial condition, and any applicable laws. To date, we have paid a cash dividend each quarter and intend to continue to pay dividends on a quarterly basis. However, in the past we have reduced our dividend due to the effect of market conditions on our business. Our board of directors has and in the future may, in its discretion, increase or decrease the level of dividends. Further, our board of directors has discretion to discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. The ability of Calamos Investments LLC to make distributions is subject to its: operating results, cash requirements, financial condition, and compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future indebtedness, as well as any applicable laws. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient distributions from our business, we may need to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends on our shares. The inability for Calamos Investments LLC to maintain compliance with its financial covenants could have a material adverse effect on our Company. Calamos Investments LLC currently has $92.1 million of aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes outstanding. Note purchase agreements between Calamos Investments LLC and its note holders govern the terms of the unsecured notes. Under these agreements, Calamos Investments LLC must maintain certain consolidated net worth, leverage and interest coverage ratios. The note purchase agreements also contain other covenants that, among other provisions, restrict the ability of Calamos Investments LLC’s subsidiaries to incur debt and restrict the ability of Calamos Investments LLC or its subsidiaries to make distributions, create liens and to merge or to consolidate, or sell or convey all or substantially all of Calamos Investments LLC’s assets. The inability of Calamos Investments LLC to maintain compliance with any of its financial covenants could lead to an event of default and result in various remedies to the note holders including the acceleration of all the notes outstanding and the payment of a make whole amount. In such an event, our liquidity and results from operations would be materially and adversely impacted. Significant changes in market conditions and the economy may require a modification to our business plan. Our revenues are primarily driven by Total Assets and declines in the financial markets will directly and negatively affect our investment advisory fee revenues as well as our non-operating income and net income. As such, significant changes in market conditions and the economy may require a modification to our business plan. Modification to our business plan may include: the reopening or elimination of product offerings, programs or efforts; realignment of sales and marketing resources to adapt to changing market demand and the changing competitive landscape; and the implementation of expense control measures, inclusive of staff reductions, to streamline our infrastructure and reduce capital expenditures. Independent of market conditions, we also may modify our business plan, which may not be successful, affecting our revenues and net income. A change of control of our Company would automatically terminate our investment management agreements with our clients, unless our separate account clients consent and, in the case of fund clients, the funds’ boards of trustees and shareholders voted to continue the agreements. A change of control could also prevent us for a two-year period from increasing the investment advisory fees we are able to charge our mutual fund clients. Under the Investment Company Act, an investment management agreement with a fund must provide for its automatic termination in the event of its assignment. The fund’s board and shareholders must vote to continue the agreement following its assignment, the cost of which ordinarily would be borne by us. Under the Investment Advisers Act, a client’s investment management agreement may not be “assigned” by the investment advisor without the client’s consent. An investment management agreement is considered under both acts to be assigned to another party when a controlling block of the advisor’s securities is transferred. In our case, an assignment of our investment management agreements may occur if, among other things, we sell or issue a certain number of additional common shares in the future. We cannot be certain that our clients will consent to assignments of our investment management agreements or approve new agreements with us if a change of control occurs. Under the Investment Company Act, if a fund’s investment advisor engages in a transaction that results in the assignment of its investment management agreement with the fund, the advisor may not impose an “unfair burden” on that fund as a result of the transaction for a two-year period after the transaction is completed. The term “unfair burden” has been interpreted to include certain increases in investment advisory fees. This restriction may discourage potential purchasers from acquiring a controlling interest in our Company. 19 We require specialized technology to operate our business and would be adversely affected if this technology became inoperative or obsolete. Our business is dependent on highly specialized technology to support our business functions, including: securities analysis, securities trading, portfolio management, customer service, accounting and internal financial processes and controls and regulatory compliance and reporting. All of our technology systems may be vulnerable to disability or failures due to hacking, viruses, natural disasters, power failures, acts of war or terrorism, and other causes. Some of our software is licensed from and supported by outside vendors upon whom we rely to prevent operating system failure. A suspension or termination of these licenses or the related support, upgrades and maintenance could cause system delays or interruption. Also, our back office operations have been outsourced to third-party service providers who rely on technology systems as well. If these service providers or any of these systems fail, we would be unable to fulfill critical business functions, which could lead to a loss of customers and harm to our reputation. Technological breakdowns could also interfere with our ability to comply with financial reporting and other regulatory requirements, exposing us to disciplinary action and to liability to our customers. In addition, our continued success depends on our ability to adopt new or adapt existing technologies to meet client, industry and regulatory demands. We might be required to make significant capital expenditures to maintain competitive technology. If we are unable to upgrade our technology in a timely fashion, we might lose customers and fail to maintain regulatory compliance, which could affect our results of operations and severely damage our reputation. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business. We have developed our reputation through excellent client services, strong long-term risk-adjusted investment performance, comprehensive product offerings, superior distribution and a stalwart brand image. The Calamos name and brand are valuable assets and any damage to either could hamper our ability to attract and retain clients and employees, thereby having a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. Risks to our reputation may include conflicts of interest, employee misconduct, litigation, regulatory issues and unsubstantiated accusations. Managing such matters may be expensive, time-consuming and difficult. Improper disclosure of personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. We and our service providers store and process personal client information. Despite having implemented what we believe are appropriate security controls, training, and policies and procedures, these efforts may not prevent the improper disclosure of client information. Such disclosure could harm our reputation as well and subject us to liability, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Failure to comply with statutory and regulatory investment parameters, investment guidelines or instructions by our clients, and investment parameters established in our disclosure documents could result in damage awards which could adversely affect our business. Our clients typically specify the investment guidelines or strategy, or provide instructions on the management of their portfolios that we are required to follow. We are required to invest Fund assets in accordance with limitations under the Investment Company Act and applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. We are also required to invest Calamos Global Fund assets in accordance with limitations under UCITS directives, various notices, guidance and policy statements adopted by the Republic of Ireland and the Irish Central Bank. Our failure to comply with these guidelines, limitations or instructions could result in losses to a client or an investor in a fund which, depending on the circumstances, could result in clients or fund investors: being made whole for such losses; seeking damages from us; or terminating their investment management agreements. Any of these events could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our earnings. The disparity in the voting rights among the classes of shares may have an adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. Shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock entitle the respective holders to identical rights, except that each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to one vote on all matters to be voted on by stockholders generally while each share of Class B common stock entitles its holder to a greater number of votes. Our outstanding Class B common stock represents more than 97.5% of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock. The difference in voting rights could adversely 20 affect the value of our Class A common stock to the extent that investors view, or any potential future purchaser of our Company views, the superior voting rights of the Class B common stock to be detrimental to the value of the Class A common stock. Future sales of our Class A common stock in the public market could lower our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute our stockholders’ ownership in us. We may sell additional shares of Class A common stock in subsequent public offerings or issue convertible debt securities. The Calamos Interests own approximately 77.9% of Calamos Investments LLC as of December 31, 2012, and can exchange all or portions of their ownership interests in Calamos Investments LLC for shares of our Class A common stock. Subject to certain selling restrictions, the Calamos Interests could sell any or all of those shares in a registered public offering pursuant to a registration rights agreement. We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A common stock or the effect, if any, on the market price of our Class A common stock. Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. Control by Calamos family members of a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock may have a negative effect on the price of the Class A Common Stock. As of December 31, 2012, the Calamos Interests owned approximately 77.9% of Calamos Investments LLC and all of our Class B common stock, representing more than 97.5% of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock. Pursuant to the terms of our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation, Calamos Family Partners, Inc. retains a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock until its ownership interest in Calamos Investments LLC falls below 15%, at which time all outstanding shares of our Class B common stock automatically will convert into shares of our Class A common stock. Accordingly, as long as Calamos Family Partners, Inc. maintains the requisite ownership interests in Calamos Investments LLC (including through ownership of our common stock), it will continue to have the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends on our common stock. In addition, it will continue to be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval on a combined class vote basis, and will continue to be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our Company or a change in the composition of our board of directors. The concentration of ownership could deprive Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our Company and might ultimately negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Our investment income may be negatively affected by fluctuation in our corporate investment portfolio resulting in a material adverse effect on our Company. A substantial portion of our assets are invested in products which are subject to market risk. Fluctuations in investment income are expected to occur in the future but to a lesser magnitude with the use of derivatives. Tangentially, our capital loss carryforwards resulting from losses generated from the sale of investment securities provide deferred tax assets, which are intangible assets with realization dependent on our ability to generate capital gains from securities owned within our corporate investment portfolio. If market conditions deteriorate and securities valuations are depressed for prolonged periods of time, the recoverability of these deferred tax assets may be adversely affected and become impaired. Insurance coverage may be inadequate or not cover legal and regulatory proceedings. In addition to civil litigation and arbitration, we are subject to regulatory inquiries and examinations which could result in substantial penalties and awards against us if the outcome is adverse. These types of proceedings have increased in the financial services industry and this trend of increased regulatory actions is expected to continue in the near future. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts and terms we believe appropriate for such matters although we cannot be certain that there will be adequate coverage, if at all; nor can we be certain that coverage will always be available. Finally, insurance premiums may rise for substantially the same coverage amounts and terms which will result in higher expenses and reduce our net income. Expansion into international markets may increase operational, regulatory and other risks. As we increase our international presence and expand our product offerings and international business activities, we face increased operational, regulatory, compliance, reputation and foreign exchange rate risks. The failure of our Company’s systems of internal 21 control to properly mitigate such additional risks, or of our operating infrastructure to support such international expansion could result in operational failures and regulatory fines or sanctions. Local regulatory environments may vary widely and place additional demands on our sales, legal and compliance personnel. Identifying and hiring well-qualified personnel and adopting policies, procedures and controls to address local or regional requirements require time and resources. Regulators in non-U.S. jurisdictions could also change their policies or laws in a manner that might restrict or otherwise impede our ability to offer our investment strategies in their respective markets. Any of these local requirements, activities, or needs could increase the costs and expenses we incur in a specific jurisdiction without any corresponding increase in revenues and income from operating in the jurisdiction. Our ability to operate our Company effectively could be impaired if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our investment management business depends on the expertise of our personnel and their ability to work together as an effective team. Our future success depends, to a substantial degree, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Competition for employees with the necessary qualifications is intense and we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. We cannot guarantee that our compensation methods will allow us to recruit and retain the required personnel we need. We may be required to increase compensation, which would decrease our net income. The inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could affect our ability to provide an acceptable level of service to our existing or future clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Catastrophic and unpredictable events could have a material adverse effect on our business. A terrorist attack, war, power failure, cyber-attack, natural disaster, significant adverse climate change or other catastrophic or unpredictable event could adversely affect our future revenues, expenses and earnings by: interrupting our normal business operations; sustaining employee casualties, including loss of our key executives; requiring substantial expenditures and expenses to repair, replace and restore normal business operations; and reducing investor confidence. We have a disaster recovery plan to address catastrophic and unpredictable events but we cannot be assured that this plan will be sufficient in responding to or ameliorating the effects of all disaster scenarios. If our employees or vendors that we rely upon for support in a catastrophic event are unable to respond adequately or in a timely manner, we may lose clients resulting in a decrease in Total Assets with a material adverse effect on revenues and net income. Changes in tax laws and regulations as well as exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes in both the United States and the United Kingdom. As such we are subject to ongoing tax audits and the tax authorities may disagree with certain positions taken and assess additional taxes. We regularly evaluate the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision and the related valuations of our deferred income tax assets. However, there can be no guarantee that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits which could have a material adverse impact on our net income, financial condition or liquidity. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially impact our effective tax rate and the related valuations of our deferred income tax assets. Calamos Investments LLC made an election under section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (a “section 754 election”). As a result of the section 754 election, Calamos Investments LLC increased our Company’s proportionate share of the tax basis of the assets of Calamos Investments LLC to reflect the purchase price paid by our Company for its interest in Calamos Investments LLC. The Internal Revenue Service completed its audit of Calamos Investments LLC for its 2004 through 2006 tax years and has proposed certain adjustments not related to the section 754 election. We anticipate that this audit and the 2004 through 2006 tax years will ultimately be closed without an adjustment to the 754 election. 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 