ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information contained in this report. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition and adversely affect the value of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks facing us. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming the Company will continue as a going concern. As shown in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company continues to experience net losses from its operations, reporting a net loss before reorganization items of $4.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Cash and cash equivalents on hand and internally generated cash flows may not be sufficient to execute the Company’s business plan. Future bank financings, asset sales, or other equity or debt financings will be required to fund the Company’s debt service, working capital requirements, planned drilling, potential acquisitions and other capital expenditures. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. If we cannot secure additional financing and continue to incur losses, we may be unable to maintain a level of liquidity necessary to continue operating our business and may be required to discontinue operations. Risks Related to the Natural Gas Industry and Our Business Natural gas prices are volatile and a decline in prices could hurt our financial condition, operating results and ability to grow. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our gas properties depend heavily on the prices we receive from natural gas sales. Gas prices also affect our cash flows and borrowing base, as well as the amount and value of our gas reserves. Historically, the markets for natural gas have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for gas, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: · domestic supplies of natural gas; · weather conditions in the United States and wherever our property interests are located or our gas is sold; · technological advances affecting energy consumption; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · worldwide and domestic economic conditions; 6 Table of Contents · actions by OPEC, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; · political instability in major oil and gas producing regions; · the level of consumer demand; · changes in the overall supply and demand for oil and gas; · the availability of transportation facilities; · the ability of oil and gas companies to raise capital; · the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; · the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas; · the price of foreign imports of oil and gas; and · governmental regulations and taxes, both domestic and foreign. These factors and the volatility of gas markets make it very difficult to predict future gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in gas prices would reduce our revenues and could also reduce the amount of gas that we can produce economically and therefore could have a material adverse effect on us. Our guarantee of certain indebtedness, and the covenants in the agreements governing that debt, could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. We guaranteed payment of the Amended and Restated Senior Secured Debenture (the “Amended Debenture”) and pledged substantially all of our assets as collateral. If we fail to comply with the restrictions in the agreements governing the Amended Debenture, an event of default could occur that would permit the lenders to foreclose on substantially all of our assets. Our ability to comply with these restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. If we are required but unable to make the guaranteed payments under the Amended Debenture out of cash on hand or from internal cash flow, we could attempt to refinance the Amended Debenture, sell assets, or repay the Amended Debenture with the proceeds from an equity or debt offering. However, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital through the sale of assets or issuance of equity or debt to pay or refinance the amounts owed. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through a sale of assets or a debt or equity offering include financial market conditions and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We may, therefore, not be able to successfully complete any such offering or sale of assets. The Farmout Agreement has changed our business plan. We are relying on the ability of Atlas to fund our development plans, and the inability or failure of Atlas to fund our plans will hamper our growth. The Farmout Agreement reduces our need to obtain funding. Our growth in gas sales under the Farmout Agreement will be from the 6% overriding royalty we receive from production of the wells drilled under the agreement. Our reliance on Atlas and the Farmout Agreement puts us at risk if Atlas is not able to meet its obligations or elects not to drill wells in the AMI. Our development operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a disposition of properties and a decline in our natural gas reserves. The energy industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with proceeds from the issuance of debt and equity plus cash generated by operations. In addition to funding provided by Atlas under the Farmout Agreement, we intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flow from operations and from debt or equity capital. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: · the success of the Farmout Agreement; · our proved reserves; · the level of natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; · the prices at which natural gas is sold; and · our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, then we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may, from time to time, need to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance as to the availability or terms of any additional financing. If additional capital is needed, then we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If 7 Table of Contents cash generated by operations is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations which in turn could lead to a possible disposition of properties and a decline in our reserves. If we are not able to replace reserves, we will not be able to sustain production. Our future operations depend on the Atlas Farmout Agreement and our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our properties produce gas at a declining rate over time. In order to become profitable, we must develop our properties or locate and acquire new oil and gas reserves to replace those being depleted by production. We may do this even during periods of low oil and gas prices. Competition for the acquisition of producing oil and gas properties is intense and many of our competitors have financial and other resources for acquisitions that are substantially greater than those available to us. Therefore, we may not be able to acquire oil and gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves, or we may not be able to acquire such properties at prices acceptable to us. Without successful drilling or acquisition activities, our reserves, production and revenues will decline. Our reserves and future net revenues may differ significantly from our estimates. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains estimates of our proved natural gas reserves. The estimates of reserves and future net revenues are not exact and are based on many variable and uncertain factors; therefore, the estimates may vary substantially from the actual amounts depending, in part, on the assumptions made and may be subject to adjustment either up or down in the future. The process of estimating natural gas reserves requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, natural gas prices, revenues, taxes, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable natural gas reserves will vary from those estimated. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and the value of our reserves. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we may adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of exploration and development, prevailing natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. The reserve data assumes that we will make significant capital expenditures to develop our reserves. Although estimates of these natural gas reserves and the costs associated with development of these reserves are prepared in accordance with SEC regulations, actual capital expenditures will likely vary from estimated capital expenditures, development may not occur as scheduled and actual results may not be as estimated. Our prices, income and cash flows may be impacted adversely by new taxes. The federal, state and local governments in which we operate impose taxes on the gas products we sell. There has been a significant amount of discussion by the United States Congress and presidential administrations concerning a variety of energy tax proposals. In addition, many states have raised state taxes on energy sources and additional increases may occur. We cannot predict whether any of these measures would have an adverse impact on natural gas prices, our income or cash flows. The Amended Debenture contains various restrictions limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business. The Amended Debenture contains various restrictions. In particular, these restrictions limit our ability, without the lenders’ approval, to, among other things: · pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; · make loans to others; · incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; · create certain liens; and · purchase or sell assets. If we fail to comply with the restrictions of the Amended Debenture, an event of default may allow the creditors to foreclose on substantially all of our assets. Any such default or foreclosure could have a material adverse effect on us. Continuing volatility in the financial and credit markets, and in oil and natural gas prices may affect our ability to obtain funding or to obtain funding on acceptable terms. These factors may hinder or prevent us from meeting our future capital needs and/or continuing to meet our obligations and conduct our business. Global financial markets and economic conditions continue to be volatile, which has impacted the debt and equity capital markets. These issues, along with significant asset write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk and weak economic conditions, have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain debt or equity capital funding. Due to these factors, there can be no assurance that funding will be available to us, if needed, and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available as needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our 8 Table of Contents obligations as they come due, enhance our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities, or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our production, revenues, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain, and oil and gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · unexpected drilling conditions; · title problems; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · adverse weather conditions; · compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; · delays caused by regulatory approvals from state, local and other governmental authorities; · shortages or delays in the availability of or increases in the cost of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment; · lack of availability of experienced drilling crews; and · lack of pipeline availability or pipeline capacity. The wells we drill may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells. The seismic data and other technologies that we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or gas is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Drilling activities can result in dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after operating and other costs to cover initial drilling costs. Our future drilling activities may not be successful, or our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activity within a particular area may decline. Although we and our farmout partner Atlas have identified numerous potential drilling locations, we may not be able to economically produce oil or natural gas from them. The occurrence of any or all of these risks could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our use of 2-D and 3-D seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of natural gas which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. Therefore, 2-D and 3-D seismic data may not accurately identify the presence of natural gas. Substantially all of our producing properties are located in the Rocky Mountain region, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area. Our operations are focused on the Rocky Mountain region, and our producing properties are located in the states of Colorado and Nebraska. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these areas caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production or interruption of transportation of natural gas produced from the wells in these areas. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may be inadequately insured, resulting in losses to us. Our operations, including gathering, processing, exploitation and production, are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. These events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in our operations. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. A significant liability for which we were not fully insured could adversely affect us. 9 Table of Contents Our operations are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that may result in substantial costs and other risks. Federal, state and local authorities extensively regulate the energy industry. Legislation and regulations affecting the industry are under constant review for amendment or expansion, raising the possibility of changes that may affect, among other things, the pricing or marketing of gas production. Noncompliance with statutes and regulations may lead to substantial penalties, and the overall regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and, in turn, decreases profitability. Governmental authorities regulate various aspects of gas drilling and production, including the drilling of wells (through permit and bonding requirements), the spacing of wells, the unitization or pooling of gas properties, environmental matters, safety standards, the sharing of markets, production limitations, plugging and abandonment and restoration. Our operations are also subject to complex and constantly changing environmental laws and regulations adopted by federal, state and local governmental authorities in jurisdictions where we are engaged in development or production operations. New laws or regulations, or changes to current requirements, could result in material costs or claims with respect to properties we own or have owned. We will continue to be subject to uncertainty associated with new regulatory interpretations and inconsistent interpretations between state and federal agencies. We could face significant liabilities to governmental authorities and third parties for discharges of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water, and we could have to spend substantial amounts on investigations, litigation and remediation. Existing environmental laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or enforced, or as they may be interpreted, enforced or altered in the future, may have a material adverse effect on us. Future oil and gas price declines or unsuccessful development efforts may result in write-downs of our development and production asset carrying values, thereby reducing our assets and net worth. We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. All property acquisition costs and costs of development wells are capitalized when incurred, pending the determination of whether proved reserves have been discovered. The capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties, on a field basis, cannot exceed the estimated future net cash flows of that field. If net capitalized costs exceed future net cash flows, we must write-down the costs of each such field to our estimate of fair market value. Accordingly, a significant decline in oil or gas prices or unsuccessful development efforts could cause a future write-down of capitalized costs, reducing our assets and net worth. We review the carrying value of our properties quarterly based on prices in effect as of the end of each quarter. Once incurred, a write-down cannot be reversed at a later date even if prices increase. Competition in our industry is intense and many of our competitors have greater financial and technical resources than we do. We face intense competition from major oil companies, independent oil and gas exploration and production companies, financial buyers and institutional and individual investors who are actively seeking oil and gas properties in the Rocky Mountain region in which we operate and elsewhere. Many of our competitors have financial and technical resources along with equipment, expertise, labor and materials significantly exceeding those available to us. In addition, many properties are sold in a competitive bidding process in which our competitors may be able to pay more for development prospects and productive properties, or in which our competitors have technological information or expertise to evaluate and successfully bid for the properties that is not available to us. Shortages of equipment, labor or materials as a result of intense competition may result in increased costs or the inability to obtain those resources as needed. We, therefore, may not be successful in acquiring and developing profitable properties in the face of this competition. Acquisitions or other transactions could require significant external capital and could change our risk and property profile. In order to finance acquisitions of additional producing properties, we may need to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities or other means. These changes in capitalization may significantly affect our risk profile. Additionally, significant acquisitions or other transactions could change the character of our operations and business. The character of the new properties could be substantially different in operating or geological characteristics or geographic location than our existing properties. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain external funding for future acquisitions or other transactions or to obtain external funding on terms acceptable to us. Properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. Our business strategy includes an acquisition program. The successful acquisition of producing oil and gas properties requires assessments of many factors, which are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including the following: · the amount of recoverable reserves; · future oil and natural gas prices; · estimates of operating costs; 10 Table of Contents · estimates of future development costs; · estimates of the costs and timing of plugging and abandonment; and · potential environmental and other liabilities. Our assessment will not reveal all existing or potential problems, and may not permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to fully assess their capabilities and deficiencies. In the course of our due diligence, we may not inspect every well or pipeline. Inspections may not reveal structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination, when they are made. We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. We may be required to assume the environmental and production risks associated with the properties. We depend on our chief executive officer, our president and other officers for critical management decisions and industry contacts. We have a small management team and have employment agreements with our chief executive officer, our president and other executive officers. We do not carry key person insurance on their lives. The loss of the services of our executive officers through incapacity or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and would require us to seek and retain other qualified personnel. Our ability to successfully recruit qualified managerial and field personnel having experience in oil and gas exploration, significantly impacts our operations. In order to successfully implement and manage our business plan, we will depend upon, among other things, successfully recruiting qualified managerial and field personnel having experience in the oil and gas exploration business. Competition for qualified individuals is intense. We may not be able to find, attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms. If we are unable to find, attract and retain qualified personnel with technical expertise, our business operations could suffer. Our business could be adversely impacted if we have deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. In connection with our SEC reports, our management is required to provide a report on our internal controls over financial reporting including an assessment of the effectiveness of these controls to provide reasonable assurance a material misstatement did not occur in our financial statements. While our management continues to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we cannot assure you that our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. We have limited operating history since emerging from bankruptcy. Since emerging from bankruptcy on February 2, 2009, we have not generated significant revenues from operations and we have limited resources. Any operating losses, together with risks associated with our ability to be competitive in the natural gas industry, may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. An investor in our common stock must evaluate the risks, uncertainties, and difficulties encountered by a company that has emerged from Chapter 11 bankruptcy. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient revenues to maintain our business operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock We are a voluntary filer with the SEC and we may cease reporting at any time. We are currently filing reports with the SEC but we may cease reporting at any time. In that event, the liquidity of our common stock would be severely diminished and our ability to continue our operations could be materially affected. West Coast Opportunity Fund, LLC owns a significant percentage of our Company and can exercise significant influence over us. As of our emergence from Chapter 11 bankruptcy on February 2, 2009, WCOF owned approximately 90% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Through the purchase of additional shares in 2009 and the payment of accrued interest in our common stock in 2010, WCOF owned 91% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2010. So long as WCOF controls a majority of our outstanding equity, WCOF will continue to have the ability to control any matters submitted for stockholder approval such as mergers, sales of all or substantially all of our assets, amendments to our articles of incorporation, and other corporate matters. This concentration of ownership by WCOF may discourage additional investors in the Company or prevent us from undergoing a change of control in the future that would otherwise be beneficial to shareholders. No established trading market exists for the common stock we issued upon our emergence from bankruptcy, and if one develops, it may not be liquid. No established trading market exists for the common stock we issued upon our emergence from bankruptcy, and there is no assurance that any active trading market will develop in the future. There is no assurance that any national securities exchange will 11 Table of Contents approve our new common stock for listing as there is no assurance that we will satisfy the criteria for listing, or be approved for listing on such exchange. Absent an active public market for our common stock, an investment in our shares should be considered illiquid. There is no assurance that a sufficient market will develop in our stock, in which case it could be difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares. The market for our stock may be further impacted by our status as a voluntary filer with the SEC. Such status will restrict our common stock from trading on a securities exchange. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC’s penny stock regulations, which may limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities may be covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors”. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC, which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities, which ultimately may affect the liquidity of our securities. The FINRA sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. In addition to the penny stock rules described above, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) has adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares. If a market develops for our common stock, our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. Even if a market for our common stock is established, the price of our common stock may be volatile. The equity trading markets have experienced and may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market price of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: · actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts; · announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; · conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry, including economic or other conditions that affect the demand for oil and natural gas; · the success of our operating strategy; and · the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 12 Table of Contents 