ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. Risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Risks Related to Our Business We are an early stage commercial company. During 2011 we launched our first commercial product and as such, we have limited historical financial data upon which to base our projected revenue, planned operating expense or upon which to evaluate us and our commercial prospects. Based on our limited experience in developing and marketing new products, we may not be able to effectively: • drive adoption of our products; • attract and retain customers for our products; • comply with evolving regulatory requirements applicable to our products; • anticipate and adapt to changes in our market; • focus our research and development efforts in areas that generate returns on these efforts; • maintain and develop strategic relationships with vendors and manufacturers to acquire necessary materials for the production of our products; • implement an effective marketing strategy to promote awareness of our products; • scale our manufacturing activities to meet potential demand at a reasonable cost; • avoid infringement and misappropriation of third-party intellectual property; • obtain licenses on commercially reasonable terms to third-party intellectual property; • obtain valid and enforceable patents that give us a competitive advantage; • protect our proprietary technology; • provide appropriate levels of customer training and support for our products; • protect our products from any equipment or software-related system failures; and • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. In addition, a high percentage of our expenses is and will continue to be fixed. Accordingly, if we do not generate revenue as and when anticipated, our losses may be greater than expected and our operating results will suffer. We have incurred losses to date, and we expect to continue to incur significant losses as we develop our business and may never achieve profitability. We have incurred net losses since inception and we cannot be certain if or when we will produce sufficient revenue from our operations to support our costs. Even if profitability is achieved, we may not be able to sustain profitability. We expect to incur substantial losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. 13 Table of Contents If our products fail to achieve and sustain sufficient market acceptance, we will not generate expected revenue and our business may not succeed. Although we have now commercialized the PacBio RS and started recognizing revenue from our products, we cannot be sure that they will gain acceptance in the marketplace at levels sufficient to support our costs. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the market for genetic analysis to include new applications that are not practical with other current technologies. To accomplish this, we must successfully commercialize, and continue development of, our SMRT technology for use in a variety of life science applications. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in securing additional customers for our products, in particular, our first product which is focused on DNA sequencing. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that the design of our products, including the initial and subsequent specifications and any enhancements or improvements to those specifications, will be satisfactory to potential customers in the markets we seek to reach. These markets are dynamic, and there can be no assurance that they will develop as quickly as we expect or that they will reach their full potential. As a result, we may be required to refocus our marketing efforts, and we may have to make changes to the specifications of our products to enhance our ability to enter particular markets more quickly. Even if we are able to implement our technology successfully, we may fail to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our products by academic and government research laboratories and pharmaceutical, biotechnology and agriculture companies, among others, across the full range of our intended life science applications. If the market for our products grows more slowly than anticipated, if competitors develop better or more cost-effective products or if we are unable to develop a significant customer base, our future sales and revenue would be materially harmed and our business may not succeed. For example, in September 2011, we implemented a reduction in our workforce due in part to our infrastructure being staffed to support a faster adoption rate for our products. If the adoption rate for our products continues to be slow or does not grow, our business may be adversely affected. Our products are highly complex, with significant support requirements. In light of the highly complex technology involved in our products there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully provide adequate support for our products. Our customers have experienced reliability issues with our PacBio RS instruments that we believe are consistent with the introduction of similar new, highly complex products. While we believe that our customers, particularly those who were early adopters of other new DNA sequencing technologies in the past, understand that such issues can be common with novel, highly complex products like the PacBio RS, if our products continue to have reliability or other quality issues or require unexpected levels of support, the market acceptance and utilization of our products may not grow to levels sufficient to support our costs and our reputation and business could be harmed. We deliver our PacBio RS instruments with one year of service included in the purchase price with an option to purchase one or more additional years of service. Since launching our PacBio RS instrument during 2011, we have incurred significant service and support costs. If service and support costs increase, our business and operations may be adversely affected. We may not be able to produce instruments that consistently achieve the specifications and quality that our customers expect. We have established performance standards for our commercial products that we may not consistently achieve using our current design and manufacturing processes. If we do not consistently achieve the specifications and quality that our customers expect, customer demand may be negatively affected. Customers may refuse to accept our products in a timely manner or at all, which would adversely affect our revenue. Any inability to meet performance standards may materially impact the commercial viability of our products and harm our business. We may be unable to consistently manufacture our consumable kits, including SMRT Cells, to the specifications required by our customers or in quantities necessary to meet demand at an acceptable cost. In order to successfully derive revenue from our products, we need to supply our customers with consumable kits to be used with our instruments. We have limited experience manufacturing these consumable 14 Table of Contents kits. For example, the manufacture of our SMRT Cells involves complex manufacturing processes. Since we are in an early phase of producing SMRT Cells, our current manufacturing yields are low and therefore the cost of manufacturing these products is high. Our customers have experienced variability in the performance of our SMRT cells. There is no assurance that we will be able to manufacture our consumable kits or SMRT Cells so that they consistently achieve the product specifications and quality that our customers expect. There is also no assurance that we will be able to increase manufacturing yields and decrease costs. Furthermore, we may not be able to increase manufacturing capacity for our consumable kits or SMRT Cells to meet anticipated demand. An inability to manufacture consumable kits and SMRT Cells that consistently meet specifications, in necessary quantities and at commercially acceptable costs will have a negative material impact on our business. We may not be able to convert our orders in backlog into revenue. Our backlog represents product orders from our customers that we have confirmed and for which we have not yet recognized revenue. We may not receive revenue from these orders, and the order backlog we report may not be indicative of our future revenue. Many events can cause an order to be delayed or not completed at all, some of which may be out of our control. If we delay fulfilling customer orders, those customers may seek to cancel their orders with us. In addition, customers may otherwise seek to cancel or delay their orders even if we are prepared to fulfill them. If our orders in backlog do not result in sales, our operating results may suffer. Rapidly changing technology in life sciences could make the products we are developing obsolete unless we continue to develop and manufacture new and improved products and pursue new market opportunities. Our industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend on our ability to continually improve our products, to develop and introduce new products that address the evolving needs of our customers on a timely and cost-effective basis and to pursue new market opportunities. These new market opportunities may be outside the scope of our proven expertise or in areas which have unproven market demand, and new products and services developed by us may not gain market acceptance. Our inability to gain market acceptance of new products could harm our future operating results. Our future success also depends on our ability to manufacture new and improved products to meet customer demand in a timely and cost-effective manner, including our ability to resolve manufacturing issues that may arise as we commence production of these complex products. Unanticipated difficulties or delays in replacing existing products with new products or in manufacturing improved or new products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand could diminish future demand for our products and harm our future operating results. We may be unable to develop our future commercial applications. Our future business depends on our ability to execute on our plans to develop, manufacture and market additional commercial applications of our SMRT technology. Future commercial applications will require significant investments of cash and resources and we may experience unexpected delays or difficulties that could postpone our ability to commercially launch these future applications, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. A significant portion of our potential sales depends on customers’ capital spending budgets that may be subject to significant and unexpected variation which could have a negative effect on the demand for our product. We have based our business model on our belief that the market for sequencing products is large and expected to grow significantly. The market is still developing and we cannot quantify the size of the market with certainty. Growth in the market is dependent on increases in the demand for sequencing products from both 15 Table of Contents research institutions and commercial companies. A substantial portion of our potential product sales represent significant capital purchases by customers. Our potential customers include academic and government institutions, genome centers, medical research institutions, pharmaceutical, agricultural, biotechnology and chemical companies. Their capital spending budgets can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. These budgets are based on a wide variety of factors, including the allocation of available resources to make purchases, funding from government sources which is highly uncertain, the spending priorities among various types of research equipment and policies regarding capital expenditures during recessionary periods. Any decrease in capital spending or change in spending priorities of our potential customers could significantly reduce the demand for our products. Moreover, we have no control over the timing and amount of purchases by these potential customers, and as a result, revenue from these sources may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. We may also have to write off excess or obsolete inventory if sales of our products are not consistent with our expectations or the market requirements for our products change due to technical innovations in the marketplace. Any delay or reduction in purchases by potential customers or our inability to forecast fluctuations in demand could harm our future operating results. In addition, if the market for our products is not as large as we expected and if the market does not grow as rapidly as we expected, demand for our products could be adversely affected. We have limited experience in sales and marketing of our products and, as a result, may be unable to successfully increase sales of our products. We have limited experience in sales and marketing of our products. Our ability to achieve profitability depends on our ability to attract customers for our products. We may be unable to effectively market our products. To perform sales, marketing, distribution and customer support successfully, we will face a number of risks, including: • our ability to attract, retain and manage the sales, marketing and service personnel necessary to expand market acceptance for our technology; • the time and cost of maintaining and growing a specialized sales, marketing and service force for a particular application, which may be difficult to justify in light of the revenue generated; and • our sales, marketing and service force may be unable to initiate and execute successful commercial activities. We enlist third parties to assist with sales, distribution and customer support globally or in certain regions of the world. There is no guarantee, if we enter into such arrangements, that we will be successful in attracting desirable sales and distribution partners or that we will be able to enter into such arrangements on favorable terms. If our sales and marketing efforts, or those of any third-party sales and distribution partners, are not successful, our technologies and products may not gain market acceptance, which could materially impact our business operations. We have limited experience in manufacturing our products. If we are unable to manufacture sufficient quantities of our products with sufficient quality by ourselves or with partners in a timely manner, our ability to sell our products may be harmed. In order to manufacture our products in volume, we need to maintain sufficient internal manufacturing capacity or contract with manufacturing partners, or both. Our technology and the manufacturing process for our products is highly complex, involving a large number of unique parts, and we may encounter difficulties in manufacturing our products. There is no assurance that we will be able to consistently meet the volume and quality requirements necessary to be successful in the market. Manufacturing and product quality issues may arise as we adjust the scale of our production. If our products do not consistently meet our customers’ performance expectations, our reputation may be harmed, and we may be unable to generate sufficient revenue to become profitable. Any delay or inability in maintaining or expanding our manufacturing capacity to meet 16 Table of Contents customer demand could diminish our ability to sell our products, which could result in lost revenue and seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on other companies for the manufacture of certain components and sub-assemblies and intend to outsource additional sub-assemblies in the future. We may not be able to successfully scale the manufacturing process necessary to build and test multiple products on a full commercial basis, in which event our business would be materially harmed. Our products are complex and involve a large number of unique components, many of which require precision manufacturing. The nature of the products requires customized components that are currently available from a limited number of sources, and in some cases, single sources. We have chosen to source certain critical components from a single source, including suppliers for our semiconductor chips, optics, lasers and cameras. If we were required to purchase these components from an alternative source, it could take several months or longer to qualify the alternative sources. If we are unable to secure a sufficient supply of these product components, we will be unable to manufacture and sell our products in a timely fashion or in sufficient quantities or under acceptable terms. Additionally, for those components that are currently purchased from a sole or single source supplier, we have not yet arranged for alternative suppliers. The operations of our third-party manufacturing partners and suppliers could be disrupted by conditions unrelated to our business or operations, including the bankruptcy of the manufacturer or supplier. Certain of our suppliers and logistics centers are located in regions that have been or may be affected by recent earthquake and tsunami activity which could disrupt the flow of components and sub-assemblies. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a hurricane, volcano, or a flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. If our manufacturing partners or suppliers are unable or fail to fulfill their obligations to us, we might not be able to manufacture our products and satisfy customer demand in a timely manner, and our business could be harmed as a result. Our current manufacturing process is characterized by long lead times between the ordering and delivery of our products. We will need to take steps to scale the manufacturing process; including lowering the manufacturing costs of our products as well as improvements to our manufacturing yields and cycle times, manufacturing documentation, and quality assurance and quality control procedures. If we are unable to reduce our manufacturing costs and establish and maintain reliable high volume manufacturing as we scale our operations, our business could be materially harmed. Delivery of our products could be delayed or disrupted by factors beyond our control, and we could lose customers as a result. We rely on third-party carriers for the timely delivery of our products. As a result, we are subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs that are beyond our control, including worker strikes, inclement weather and increased fuel costs. Any failure to deliver products to our customers in a timely and accurate manner may damage our reputation and brand and could cause us to lose customers. If our relationship with any of these third-party carriers is terminated or impaired or if any of these third parties is unable to deliver our products, the delivery and acceptance of our products by our customers may be delayed which could harm our business and financial results. In addition, some of our consumable products need to be kept at a constant temperature. If our third-party carriers are not able to maintain those temperatures during shipment, our products may be rendered unusable by our customers. The failure to deliver our products in a timely manner may harm our relationship with our customers, increase our costs and otherwise disrupt our operations. We may encounter difficulties in managing future growth, and these difficulties could impair our profitability. We expect to experience growth in the future, which may place a strain on our human and capital resources. If we are unable to manage future growth effectively, our business and operating results could suffer. Our ability to manage our operations and costs, including research and development, costs of components, manufacturing, sales and marketing, requires us to continue to enhance our operational, financial and management controls, 17 Table of Contents reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. If we are unable to scale up and implement improvements to our manufacturing process, develop reliable third-party manufacturers of sub-assemblies and control systems in an efficient or timely manner, or if we encounter deficiencies in existing systems and controls, we will not be able to make available the products required to meet future customer demand for our products. Failure to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees will further strain our human resources and could impede our growth. We depend on the continuing efforts of our senior management team and other key personnel. If we lose members of our senior management team or other key personnel or are unable to successfully retain, recruit and train qualified scientists, engineering and other personnel, our ability to develop our products could be harmed, and we may be unable to achieve our goals. Our future success depends upon the continuing services of members of our senior management team and scientific and engineering personnel. In particular, our scientists and engineers are critical to our future technological and product innovations, and we will need to hire additional qualified personnel. Our industry, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area, is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, and the turnover rate can be high. We compete for qualified management and scientific personnel with other life science companies, academic institutions and research institutions, particularly those focusing on genomics. These employees could leave our company with little or no prior notice and would be free to work for a competitor. If one or more of our senior executives or other key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all, and other senior management may be required to divert attention from other aspects of the business. In addition, we do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any member of our management team or other key personnel. The loss of any of these individuals or our ability to attract or retain qualified personnel, including scientists, engineers and others, could prevent us from pursuing collaborations and adversely affect our product development and introductions, business growth prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets may significantly harm our revenue, profitability and results of operations. The global economy and credit and capital markets have experienced recent volatility and disruption. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products in a timely manner or to maintain operations, which could result in a decrease in sales volume that could harm our results of operations. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and international economies may also cause our customers to reduce their purchases. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to address liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. Significant government investment and allocation of resources to assist the economic recovery of sectors which do not include our customers may reduce the resources available for government grants and related funding for life sciences research and development. Continuation or further deterioration of these financial and macroeconomic conditions could significantly harm our sales, profitability and results of operations. We may need additional financing to fund our existing operations. Securities we issue to fund our operations could dilute your ownership. We may decide to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financing. Such additional funds may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all, particularly in light of recent market conditions. If we raise funds by issuing equity securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced, and the new equity securities may have priority rights over current investors. We may delay, limit or eliminate some or all of our proposed operations and research and development if adequate funds are not available. 18 Table of Contents We operate in a highly competitive industry and if we are not able to compete effectively, our business and operating results will likely be harmed. Some of our current competitors, as well as many of our potential competitors, have greater name recognition, more substantial intellectual property portfolios, longer operating histories, significantly greater resources to invest in new technologies, more substantial experience in new product development and manufacturing capabilities and more established distribution channels to deliver products to customers than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. In light of these advantages, even if our technology is more effective than the products or service offerings of our competitors, current or potential customers might accept competitive products and services in lieu of purchasing our technology. Increased competition may result in pricing pressures, which could harm our sales, profitability or market share. Our failure to compete effectively could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our sales cycle is lengthy and unpredictable, which makes it difficult to forecast revenue and may increase the magnitude of quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. Our PacBio RS has a lengthy sales and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and generally requires the approval of our customers’ senior management. This may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, particularly during the periods in which our sales volume is low. Because of these fluctuations, it is likely that in some future quarters our operating results will fall below the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If that happens, the market price of our stock would likely decrease. Past fluctuations in our quarterly operating results have resulted in decreases in our stock price. Such fluctuations also mean that investors may not be able to rely upon our operating results in any particular period as an indication of future performance. Our products could have unknown defects or errors, which may give rise to claims against us or divert application of our resources from other purposes. Any product using our SMRT technology will be complex and may develop or contain undetected defects or errors. We cannot provide assurance that material performance problems will not arise. Despite testing, defects or errors may arise in our products, which could result in a failure to achieve increased market acceptance diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation and increased warranty, service and maintenance costs. We ship our PacBio RS instruments with one year of service included in the purchase price with an option to purchase one or more additional years of service. We provide a twelve-month warranty period for the PacBio RS. The warranty is limited to replacing, repairing or giving credit for, at our option, any instrument for which a warranty claim is provided to us within the warranty period. We also provide a warranty for our consumables, but claims must be made within 90 days from the date of delivery or by the shelf life date or “use by” date, if earlier. The warranty is limited to replacing, or at our option, giving credit for, any consumable with defects in material or workmanship. Defects or errors in our products might also discourage customers from purchasing our products. The costs incurred in correcting any defects or errors may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating margins. In addition, such defects or errors could lead to the filing of product liability claims against us, which could be costly and time-consuming to defend and result in substantial damages. Although we have product liability insurance, any future product liability insurance that we procure may not protect our assets from the financial impact of a product liability claim. Moreover, we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage on acceptable terms. Any insurance that we do obtain will be subject to deductibles and coverage limits. A product liability claim could have a serious adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Increased market adoption of our products by customers may depend on the availability of sample preparation and informatics tools, some of which may be developed by third parties. Our commercial success may depend in part upon the development of sample preparation and software and informatics tools by third parties for use with our products. We cannot guarantee that third parties will develop tools that will be useful with our products or be viewed as useful by our customers or potential customers. A lack of additional available complementary sample preparation and informatics tools may impede the adoption of our products and may adversely impact our business. Ethical, legal and social concerns surrounding the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our technology. Our products may be used to provide genetic information about humans, agricultural crops and other living organisms. The information obtained from our products could be used in a variety of applications, which may have underlying ethical, legal and social concerns, including the genetic engineering or modification of agricultural products or testing for genetic predisposition for certain medical conditions. Governmental authorities could, for safety, social or other purposes, call for limits on or regulation of the use of genetic testing. Such concerns or governmental restrictions could limit the use of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products could in the future be subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or other domestic and international regulatory agencies, which could increase our costs and delay our commercialization efforts, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations. Our products are not currently subject to U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, clearance or approval since they are not intended for use in the diagnosis or treatment of disease. However, in the future, certain of our products or related applications could be subject to FDA regulation, or the FDA’s regulatory jurisdiction could be expanded to include our products. Even where a product is exempted from FDA clearance or approval, the FDA may impose restrictions as to the types of customers to which we can market and sell our products. Such regulation and restrictions may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many countries have laws and regulations that could affect our products. The number and scope of these requirements are increasing. Unlike many of our competitors, this is an area where we do not have expertise. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals in such countries or may incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining our foreign regulatory approvals. In addition, the export by us of certain of our products which have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution may be subject to FDA or other export restrictions. Our operations involve the use of hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental, health and safety laws, which can be expensive and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of hazardous materials, including chemicals and biological materials, and some of our products include hazardous materials. Accordingly, we are subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and permits relating to environmental, health and safety matters, including, among others, those governing the use, storage, handling, exposure to and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the health and safety of our employees, and the shipment, labeling, collection, recycling, treatment and disposal of products containing hazardous materials. Liability under environmental laws and regulations can be joint and several and without regard to fault or negligence. For example, under certain circumstances and under certain environmental laws, we could be held liable for costs relating to contamination at our or our predecessors’ past or present facilities and at third-party waste disposal sites. We could also be held liable for damages arising out of human exposure to hazardous materials. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental, health and safety laws will not occur as a result of human error, accident, equipment failure or other causes. The failure to comply with past, present or 20 Table of Contents future laws could result in the imposition of substantial fines and penalties, remediation costs, property damage and personal injury claims, investigations, the suspension of production or product sales, loss of permits or a cessation of operations. Any of these events could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We also expect that our operations will be affected by new environmental, health and safety laws and regulations on an ongoing basis, or more stringent enforcement of existing laws and regulations. Although we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any such new laws and regulations, or such more stringent enforcement, they will likely result in additional costs and may increase penalties associated with violations or require us to change the content of our products or how we manufacture them, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our facilities in California are located near known earthquake faults, and the occurrence of an earthquake or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Our facilities in the San Francisco Bay Area are located near known earthquake fault zones and are vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including fire, floods, power loss, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business at our facilities would be seriously, or potentially completely, impaired. In addition, the nature of our activities could cause significant delays in our research programs and commercial activities and make it difficult for us to recover from a disaster. The insurance we maintain may not be adequate to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other business interruptions. Accordingly, an earthquake or other disaster could materially and adversely harm our ability to conduct business. Doing business internationally creates operational and financial risks for our business. Conducting and launching operations on an international scale requires close coordination of activities across multiple jurisdictions and time zones and consumes significant management resources. If we fail to coordinate and manage these activities effectively, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. International sales entail a variety of risks, including longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable outside of the United States, currency exchange fluctuations, challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations, tariffs and other trade barriers, unexpected changes in legislative or regulatory requirements of foreign countries into which we sell our products, difficulties in obtaining export licenses or in overcoming other trade barriers and restrictions resulting in delivery delays and significant taxes or other burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws. In conducting our international operations, we will be subject to U.S. laws relating to our international activities, as well as foreign laws relating to our activities in other countries. Failure to comply with these laws may subject us to financial and other penalties in the U.S. and foreign countries that could impact our operations or financial condition. Changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we are able sell products in the same market. Our revenue from international customers may be negatively impacted as increases in the U.S. dollar relative to our international customers local currency could make our products more expensive, impacting our ability to compete. Our costs of materials from international suppliers may increase if in order to continue doing business with us they raise their prices as the value of the U.S. dollar decreases relative to their local currency. Foreign policies and actions regarding currency valuation could result in actions by the United States and other countries to offset the effects of such fluctuations. The recent global financial downturn has led to a high level of volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and that level of volatility may continue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to existing and potential additional governmental regulation that may impose burdens on our operations, and the markets for our products may be narrowed. We are subject, both directly and indirectly, to the adverse impact of existing and potential future government regulation of our operations and markets. For example, export of our instruments may be subject to strict regulatory control in a number of jurisdictions. The failure to satisfy export control criteria or to obtain necessary clearances could delay or prevent shipment of products, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Moreover, the life sciences industry, which is expected to be one of the primary markets for our technology, has historically been heavily regulated. There are, for example, laws in several jurisdictions restricting research in genetic engineering, which may narrow our markets. Given the evolving nature of this industry, legislative bodies or regulatory authorities may adopt additional regulation that adversely affects our market opportunities. Additionally, if ethical and other concerns surrounding the use of genetic information, diagnostics or therapies become widespread, there may be less demand for our products. See also our risk factor above titled “Ethical, legal and social concerns surrounding the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our technology.” Our business is also directly affected by a wide variety of government regulations applicable to business enterprises generally and to companies operating in the life science industry in particular. See also our risk factors above titled “Our products could in the future be subject to regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration or other domestic and international regulatory agencies, which could increase our cost and delay our commercialization efforts, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business and results of operations” and “Our operations involve the use of hazardous materials, and we must comply with environmental, health and safety laws, which can be expensive and may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.” Failure to comply with these regulations or obtain or maintain necessary permits and licenses could result in a variety of fines or other censures or an interruption in our business operations which may have a negative impact on our ability to generate revenue and could increase the cost of operating our business. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal control, our ability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis could be impaired, which would adversely affect our business and our stock price. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We may in the future discover areas of our internal financial and accounting controls and procedures that need improvement. Operating as a public company requires sufficient resources within the accounting and finance functions in order to produce timely financial information, ensure the level of segregation of duties, and maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting customary for a U.S. public company. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of our financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Our management does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that misstatements due to error or fraud will not occur or that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within our company will have been detected. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to perform an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting by December 31, 2011. While we have performed this evaluation and have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was operating effectively as of December 31, 2011, there can be no assurance that in the future material weaknesses or significant deficiencies will not exist or otherwise be discovered. In addition, if we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to finance our operations and growth. 22 Table of Contents Our ability to use net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to substantial limitations. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income. We believe that we have had one or more ownership changes, as a result of which our existing NOLs are currently subject to limitation. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in additional ownership changes under Section 382. We may not be able to utilize a material portion of our NOLs, even if we attain profitability. We may not realize the anticipated benefits from our restructuring efforts. On September 20, 2011, we implemented a restructuring that resulted in a reduction of our workforce in order to manage and reduce our operating costs and expenses. If we experience unanticipated inefficiencies or incremental costs in connection with our restructuring activities we may be unable to realize cost reductions and we may incur additional expenses. There can be no assurance that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from our restructuring activities or that such activities will reduce our operating expenses and improve our cost structure. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Failure to secure patent or other intellectual property protection for our products and improvements to our products may reduce our ability to maintain any technological or competitive advantage over our competitors and potential competitors. Our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights is uncertain and depends on complex legal and factual questions. Our ability to establish or maintain a technological or competitive advantage over our competitors may be diminished because of these uncertainties. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications or issued patents; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • it is possible that neither our pending patent applications nor the pending patent applications of our licensors will result in issued patents; • our patents or the patents of our licensors may not be of sufficient scope to prevent others from practicing our technologies, developing competing products, designing around our patented technologies or independently developing similar or alternative technologies; • our and our licensors’ patent applications or patents have been, and may in the future be, subject to interference, opposition or similar administrative proceedings, which could result in those patent applications failing to issue as patents, those patents being held invalid or the scope of those patents being substantially reduced; • we may not adequately protect our trade secrets; • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; or • the patents of others may limit our freedom to operate and prevent us from commercializing our technology in accordance with our plans. The occurrence of any of these events could impair our ability to operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others or prevent us from establishing or maintaining a competitive advantage over our competitors. 23 Table of Contents Variability in intellectual property laws may adversely affect our intellectual property position. Intellectual property laws, and patent laws and regulations in particular, have been subject to significant variability either through administrative or legislative changes to such laws or regulations or changes or differences in judicial interpretation, and it is expected that such variability will continue to occur. Additionally, intellectual property laws and regulations differ among countries. Variations in the patent laws and regulations or in interpretations of patent laws and regulations in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property and may change the impact of third-party intellectual property on us. Accordingly, we cannot predict the scope of patents that may be granted to us, the extent to which we will be able to enforce our patents against third parties or the extent to which third parties may be able to enforce their patents against us. Some of the intellectual property that is important to our business is owned by other companies or institutions and licensed to us, and changes to the rights we have licensed may adversely impact our business. We license from third parties some of the intellectual property that is important to our business, including patent licenses from Cornell Research Foundation, Indiana University Research and Technology Corporation, Stanford University and GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences Corp. If we fail to meet our obligations under these licenses, these third parties could terminate the licenses. If the third parties who license intellectual property to us fail to maintain the intellectual property that we have licensed, or lose rights to that intellectual property, the rights we have licensed may be reduced or eliminated, which could subject us to claims of intellectual property infringement. Termination of these licenses or reduction or elimination of our licensed rights may result in our having to negotiate new or reinstated licenses with less favorable terms, or could subject us to claims of intellectual property infringement in litigation or other administrative proceedings that could result in damage awards against us and injunctions that could prohibit us from selling our products. In addition, some of our licenses from third parties limit the field in which we can use the licensed technology. Therefore, in order for us to use such licensed technology in potential future applications that are outside the licensed field of use, we may be required to negotiate new licenses with our licensors or expand our rights under our existing licenses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain such licenses or expanded rights on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we have limited rights to participate in the prosecution and enforcement of the patents and patent applications that we have licensed. As a result, we cannot be certain that these patents and applications will be prosecuted and enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business. Further, because of the rapid pace of technological change in our industry, we may need to rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties, and we may not be able to obtain licenses and technologies from these third parties at all or on reasonable terms. The occurrence of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The measures that we use to protect the security of our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may not be adequate, which could result in the loss of legal protection for, and thereby diminish the value of, such intellectual property and other rights. In addition to patents, we also rely upon trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and unfair competition laws, as well as license agreements and other contractual provisions, to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. Despite these measures, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or misappropriated. In addition, we attempt to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information by requiring our employees, consultants and certain academic collaborators to enter into confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements, and by requiring our third-party manufacturing partners to enter into confidentiality agreements. There can be no assurance, however, that such measures will provide adequate protection for our intellectual property and proprietary information. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets and other proprietary information may be disclosed to others, or others may gain access to or disclose our trade secrets and other proprietary information. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Additionally, others may independently 24 Table of Contents develop proprietary information and techniques that are substantially equivalent to ours. The occurrence of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our intellectual property may be subject to challenges in the United States or foreign jurisdictions that could adversely affect our intellectual property position. Our pending, issued and granted U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications have been, and may in the future be, subject to challenges by third parties asserting prior invention by others or invalidity on various grounds, through proceedings, such as interferences, reexamination or opposition proceedings. Addressing these challenges to our intellectual property can be costly and distract management’s attention and resources. Additionally, as a result of these challenges, our patents or pending patent applications may be determined to be unpatentable to us, invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part. Accordingly, adverse rulings from the relevant patent offices in these proceedings may negatively impact the scope of our intellectual property protection for our products and technology and may adversely affect our business. Some of our technology is subject to “march-in” rights by the U.S. government. Some of our patented technology was developed with U.S. federal government funding. When new technologies are developed with U.S. government funding, the government obtains certain rights in any resulting patents, including a nonexclusive license authorizing the government to use the invention for non-commercial purposes. These rights may permit the government to disclose our confidential information to third parties and to exercise “march-in” rights to use or allow third parties to use our patented technology. The government can exercise its march-in rights if it determines that action is necessary because we fail to achieve practical application of the U.S. government-funded technology, because action is necessary to alleviate health or safety needs, to meet requirements of federal regulations, or to give preference to U.S. industry. In addition, U.S. government-funded inventions must be reported to the government and U.S. government funding must be disclosed in any resulting patent applications. In addition, our rights in such inventions are subject to government license rights and foreign manufacturing restrictions. We may become involved in legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights. Our intellectual property rights involve complex factual, scientific and legal questions. We operate in an industry characterized by significant intellectual property litigation. Even though we may believe that we have a valid patent on a particular technology, other companies may have from time to time taken, and may in the future take, actions that we believe violate our patent rights. Legal actions to enforce these patent rights can be expensive and may involve the diversion of significant management time and resources. Our enforcement actions may not be successful, could give rise to legal claims against us and could result in some of our intellectual property rights being determined to be invalid or not enforceable. We are presently, and could in the future be, subject to legal proceedings with third parties who may claim that our products infringe or misappropriate their intellectual property rights. Our products are based on complex, rapidly developing technologies. We may not be aware of issued or previously filed patent applications belonging to third parties that mature into issued patents that cover some aspect of our products or their use. In addition, because patent litigation is complex and the outcome inherently uncertain, our belief that our products do not infringe third-party patents of which we are aware or that such third-party patents are invalid and unenforceable may be determined to be incorrect. As a result, third parties may claim that we infringe their patent rights and may file lawsuits or engage in other proceedings against us to enforce their patent rights. We are presently involved in a lawsuit filed by Helicos Biosciences Corporation that alleges that our products infringe patents owned and in-licensed by Helicos (see “Legal Proceedings”). In defending this lawsuit, we expect to incur substantial costs, and experience diversion of attention of our management and technical personnel. An unfavorable outcome in this lawsuit could result in our having to pay 25 Table of Contents damages, royalties or both to Helicos, and could prevent us from selling some or all of our products. In addition, as we enter new markets, our competitors and other third parties may claim that our products infringe their intellectual property rights as part of a business strategy to impede our successful entry into those markets. In fact, several companies in our industry, such as Affymetrix, Inc., Life Technologies Corporation, Illumina, Inc. and Complete Genomics, Inc., are involved in patent litigation with each other. Additionally, we have certain obligations to many of our customers to indemnify and defend them against claims by third parties that our products or their use infringe any intellectual property of these third parties. In defending ourselves against any of these claims, we could incur substantial costs, and the attention of our management and technical personnel could be diverted. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. To avoid or settle legal claims, it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more products or relating to current or future technologies, which could negatively affect our gross margins. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may be unable to modify our products so that they do not infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. In some situations the results of litigation or settlement of claims may require that we cease allegedly infringing activities which could prevent us from selling some or all of our products. The occurrence of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, in the course of our business we may from time to time have access or be alleged to have access to confidential or proprietary information of others, which though not patented, may be protected as trade secrets. Others could bring claims against us asserting that we improperly used their confidential or proprietary information, or misappropriated their technologies and incorporated those technologies into our products. A determination that we illegally used the confidential or proprietary information or misappropriated technologies of others in our products could result in our having to pay substantial damage awards or be prevented from selling some or all of our products, which could adversely affect our business. We have not yet registered some of our trademarks in all of our potential markets, and failure to secure those registrations could adversely affect our business. Some of our trademark applications may not be allowed for registration, and our registered trademarks may not be maintained or enforced. In addition, in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and in comparable agencies in many foreign jurisdictions, third parties are given an opportunity to oppose pending trademark applications and to seek to cancel registered trademarks. Opposition or cancellation proceedings may be filed against our trademarks, and our trademarks may not survive such proceedings. Our use of “open source” software could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation. A portion of our products or technologies developed and/or distributed by us incorporate “open source” software and we may incorporate open source software into other products or technologies in the future. Some open source software licenses require that we disclose the source code for any modifications to such open source software that we make and distribute to one or more third parties, and that we license the source code for such modifications to third parties, including our competitors, at no cost. We monitor the use of open source software in our products to avoid uses in a manner that would require us to disclose or grant licenses under our source code that we wish to maintain as proprietary, however there can be no assurance that such efforts have been or will be successful. In some circumstances, distribution of our software that includes or is linked with open source software could require that we disclose and license some or all of our proprietary source code in that software, which could include permitting the use of such software and source code at no cost to the user. Open source license terms are often ambiguous, and there is little legal precedent governing the interpretation of these licenses. Successful claims made by the licensors of open source software that we have violated the terms of these licenses could result in unanticipated obligations including being subject to significant damages, being enjoined from distributing products that incorporate open source software, and being required to make available 26 Table of Contents our proprietary source code pursuant to an open source license, which could substantially help our competitors develop products that are similar to or better than ours and otherwise adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock Our share price is volatile, and you may be unable to sell your shares at or above the price you paid to acquire it. The market price of our common stock is subject to wide fluctuations in response to many risk factors listed in this section, and others beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our bookings, financial condition and operating results; • announcements of technological innovations by us or our competitors; • overall conditions in our industry and market; • addition or loss of significant customers; • changes in laws or regulations applicable to our products; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • additions or departures of key personnel; • competition from existing products or new products that may emerge; • issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts; • fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • disputes or other developments related to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters and our ability to obtain intellectual property protection for our technologies; • announcement or expectation of additional financing efforts; • sales of our common stock by us or our stockholders; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; and • general economic and market conditions. Furthermore, in the past and recently, stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. You may not realize any return on your investment in us and may lose some or all of your investment. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We are currently a party to this type of litigation (see Part II, Item 1 “Legal Proceedings”) and may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. If securities or industry analysts publish negative reports about our business, our share price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our 27 Table of Contents shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. Future sales of our common stock could cause our share price to fall. The holders of a significant number of shares of our common stock will be entitled to rights with respect to registration of such shares under the Securities Act pursuant to an investor rights agreement between such holders and us. If such holders, by exercising their registration rights, sell a large number of shares, they could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. If we file a registration statement for the purpose of selling additional shares to raise capital and are required to include shares held by these holders pursuant to the exercise of their registration rights, our ability to raise capital may be impaired. We filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register shares for issuance under our 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, 2005 Stock Plan, 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, 2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and 2010 Outside Director Equity Incentive Plan. Each of our 2010 Equity Incentive Plan, 2010 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and 2010 Outside Director Equity Incentive Plan provides for automatic increases in the shares reserved for issuance under the plan which could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. . Concentration of ownership by our principal stockholders may result in control by such stockholders of the composition of our board of directors. Our existing significant stockholders, executive officers, directors and their affiliates beneficially own a significant number of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these stockholders will be able to exercise a significant level of control over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors. This control could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of our company or changes in management and will make the approval of certain transactions difficult or impossible without the support of these stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as amended and restated, may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that: • authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, up to 50,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock and up to approximately 1,000,000,000 shares of authorized but unissued shares of common stock; • require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; • specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President; • establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder approvals to be brought before an annual meeting of our stockholders, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; • establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving staggered terms; • provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; and • provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum. 28 Table of Contents These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits the ability of stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock to merge or combine with us. Our large number of authorized but unissued shares of common stock may potentially dilute your stockholdings. We have a significant number of authorized but unissued shares of common stock. Our board of directors may issue shares of common stock from this authorized but unissued pool from time to time without stockholder approval, resulting in the dilution of our existing stockholders. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the operation of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 