Item 1A. Risk Factors Business Risks We caution the reader that the following business risks and those risks described elsewhere in this report and in our other Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, filings, could cause our actual results to differ materially from expectations stated in our forward-looking statements. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could limit the sources and amounts of our revenues, increase our costs of doing business, decrease our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to extensive regulation in the United States, primarily at the federal level, including regulation by the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, by the Department of Labor under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA, as well as regulation by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., or NASD, and state regulators. The mutual funds managed by Calamos Advisors are registered with the SEC as investment companies under the Investment Company Act. The Investment Advisers Act imposes numerous obligations on investment advisors, including record-keeping, advertising and operating requirements, disclosure obligations and prohibitions on fraudulent activities. The Investment Company Act imposes similar obligations, as well as additional detailed operational requirements, on registered investment companies and investment advisors. Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could result in fines, censure, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including revocation of our registration as an investment advisor or broker-dealer. Industry regulations are designed to protect our clients and investors in our funds and other third parties who deal with us and to ensure the integrity of the financial markets. They are not designed to protect our stockholders. Changes in laws or regulations or in governmental policies could limit the sources and amounts of our revenues, increase our costs of doing business, decrease our profitability and materially and adversely affect our business. In response to scandals in the financial services industry regarding late trading, market timing and selective disclosure of portfolio information, various legislative and regulatory proposals are pending in or before, or have been adopted by, the U.S. Congress, the legislatures in states in which we conduct operations and the various regulatory agencies that supervise our operations, including the SEC. These proposals, to the extent enacted or adopted, could have a substantial impact on the regulation and operation of registered funds, investment advisors and broker-dealers and could adversely affect our assets under management, revenues and net income. Additionally, the SEC, the NASD and other regulators, as well as Congress, are investigating certain practices within our industry. These investigations could lead to further legislative and regulatory proposals that, if enacted or adopted, could adversely affect our business. To the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. The investment management business is highly competitive and has relatively low barriers to entry. To the extent we are forced to compete on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fee structure. Although our investment management fees vary from product to product, historically we have competed primarily on the performance of our products and not on the level of our investment management fees relative to those of our competitors. In recent years, however, there has been a trend toward lower fees in the investment management industry. In order to maintain our fee structure in a competitive environment, we must be able to continue to provide clients with investment returns and service that make investors willing to pay our fees. In addition, the board of directors of each mutual fund managed by Calamos Advisors must make certain findings as to the reasonableness of its fees. We cannot be assured that we will succeed in providing investment returns and service that will allow us to maintain our current fee structure. Fee reductions on existing or future new business could have an adverse effect on our profit margins and results of operations. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from contracts that may be terminated on short notice. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from investment management agreements with mutual funds that, as required by law, are generally terminable by the funds’ board of directors or a vote of the majority of the funds’ outstanding voting securities on not more than 60 days’ written notice. After an initial term, each fund’s investment management agreement must be approved and renewed annually by the 16 Table of Contents independent members of such fund’s board of directors and, in certain cases, by its stockholders, as required by law. These investment management agreements may be terminated for any number of reasons, including investment performance, advisory fee rates and financial market performance, or may not be renewed. If any of these agreements are terminated, we may not be able to replace these agreements on favorable terms. The decrease in revenues that could result from any such termination could have a material adverse effect on our business. Investors in the open-end funds can redeem their investments in these funds at any time without prior notice, which could adversely affect our earnings. Open-end fund investors may redeem their investments in those funds at any time without prior notice. Investors may reduce the aggregate amount of assets under management for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates and financial market performance. In a declining stock market, the pace of mutual fund redemptions could accelerate. Poor performance relative to other asset management firms tends to result in decreased purchases of mutual fund shares and increased redemptions of mutual fund shares. The redemption of investments in mutual funds managed by Calamos Advisors would adversely affect our revenues, which are substantially dependent upon the assets under management in our funds. If redemptions of investments in mutual funds caused our revenues to decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Regulatory developments designed to increase oversight of hedge funds may adversely affect our business. The SEC has adopted a rule that requires registration of many hedge fund managers. Registration under the rule requires hedge fund managers to adopt certain compliance controls in order to ensure compliance with applicable securities laws and permits increased oversight of hedge fund managers by the SEC. Any regulations applicable to hedge funds that may be adopted pursuant to this rule could have a substantial impact on our operations and may adversely affect our hedge fund business and decrease our future income. A decline in the prices of securities would lead to a decline in our assets under management, revenues and earnings. Substantially all of our revenues are determined by the amount of our assets under management. Under our investment advisory contracts with our clients, the investment management fee we receive is typically based on the market value of assets under management. In addition, we receive asset-based distribution and/or service fees with respect to the open-end funds managed by Calamos Advisors over time pursuant to distribution plans adopted under provisions of Rule 12b-1 under the Investment Company Act. Rule 12b-1 fees typically are based on the market value of assets under management and represented approximately 28% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 27% of our revenues for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. Accordingly, a decline in the prices of securities generally may cause our revenues and net income to decline by either causing the value of our assets under management to decrease, which would result in lower investment advisory and Rule 12b-1 fees, or causing our clients to withdraw funds in favor of investments they perceive to offer greater opportunity or lower risk, which would also result in lower fees. The securities markets are highly volatile, and securities prices may increase or decrease for many reasons, including economic and political events and acts of terrorism beyond our control. If a decline in securities prices caused our revenues to decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Catastrophic and unpredictable events could have a material adverse effect on our business. A terrorist attack, war, power failure, cyber-attack, natural disaster or other catastrophic or unpredictable event could adversely affect our future revenues, expenses and earnings by: interrupting our normal business operations; sustaining employee casualties, including loss of our key executives; requiring substantial expenditures and expenses to repair, replace and restore normal business operations; and reducing investor confidence. 17 Table of Contents We have a disaster recovery plan to address catastrophic and unpredictable events but we cannot be assured that this plan will be sufficient in responding or ameliorating the effects of all disaster scenarios. If our employees or vendors we rely upon for support in a catastrophic event are unable to respond adequately or in a timely manner, we may lose clients resulting in a decrease in assets under management with a material adverse effect on revenues and net income. Risks Related to Our Business Control by Calamos family members of a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock may give rise to conflicts of interests. As of December 31, 2005, Calamos Family Partners, Inc. and John P. Calamos owned 77% of the membership units in Calamos Holdings LLC and all of our Class B common stock, representing more than 97% of the combined voting power of all classes of our voting stock. Pursuant to the terms of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, Calamos Family Partners, Inc. retains a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock until the number of outstanding shares of our Class B common stock, plus the number of membership units in Calamos Holdings LLC and shares of our Class A common stock held by holders of our Class B common stock, falls below 15% of the total number of outstanding membership units in Calamos Holdings LLC, at which time all outstanding shares of our Class B common stock automatically will convert into shares of our Class A common stock. Accordingly, as long as Calamos Family Partners, Inc. maintains the requisite ownership interests in our Class B common stock and our Class A common stock and in membership units of Calamos Holdings LLC, Calamos family members and their trusts, through their beneficial ownership of Calamos Family Partners, Inc., will continue to have the ability to elect all of the members of our board of directors and thereby control our management and affairs, including determinations with respect to acquisitions, dispositions, borrowings, issuances of common stock or other securities, and the declaration and payment of dividends on our common stock. In addition, they will continue to be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and will continue to be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. The concentration of ownership could deprive our Class A stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock. As a result of the control exercised by Calamos Family Partners, Inc., none of our agreements with them and other companies controlled by them are deemed to be negotiated on “arm’s length” terms. However, any such agreements since our Initial Public Offering have been approved in accordance with the Conflict of Interests Policy contained in our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. The loss of key executives could have a material adverse affect on our business. We are dependent on the efforts of John P. Calamos, Sr., our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Co-Chief Investment Officer, and Nick P. Calamos, our Senior Executive Vice President and Co-Chief Investment Officer, and other key executives. These executives have been responsible for determining the strategic direction of our business, are integral to our brand and the positive business reputation we enjoy and, having overseen the management of all of our investment portfolios and the research teams responsible for each of our portfolio strategies, have been responsible for the historically strong investment performance that allows us to compete successfully. Although we have employment agreements with John P. Calamos, Sr. and Nick P. Calamos, we cannot assure you that they will continue to act in their positions with us. If we lose the services of any of these key executives, it would have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain any “key person” insurance with respect to any of our personnel. We depend on third-party distribution channels to market our investment products and access our client base. The potential investor base for mutual funds and separate accounts is limited, and our ability to distribute mutual funds and access clients for separate accounts is highly dependent on access to the retail distribution systems and client bases of national and regional securities firms, banks, insurance companies, defined 18 Table of Contents contribution plan administrators and other intermediaries, which generally offer competing internally and externally managed investment products. For open-end funds, such intermediaries are paid for their services to fund shareholders, in part, through Rule 12b-1 fees and/or upfront commission payments by us, for which we receive Rule 12b-1 payments in the future. Those future payments allow us to pay or help us recover payments to selling firms. Access to such distribution systems and client bases is substantially dependent upon our ability to charge Rule 12b-1 fees to our funds. To the extent that recent regulatory initiatives prohibit or limit the imposition of Rule 12b-1 or similar fees, our access to these distribution systems and client bases may be foreclosed in the future. To a lesser extent, our institutional separate account business depends on referrals from financial planners and other professional advisors, as well as from our existing clients. We cannot assure you that these channels and client bases will continue to be accessible to us. The inability to have such access could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. While we continue to diversify and add new distribution channels for mutual funds and managed accounts, a significant portion of the growth in our assets under management in recent years has been accessed through intermediaries. As of December 31, 2005, substantially all of our assets under management were attributable to accounts that we accessed through third-party intermediaries. These intermediaries generally may terminate their relationships with us on short notice. Loss of any of the distribution channels afforded by these intermediaries, and the inability to access clients through new distribution channels, could decrease our assets under management and adversely affect our results of operations and growth. In addition, in the case of managed accounts offered through intermediaries to their customers, such intermediaries may reduce the fees that they remit to us as part of the arrangements they have with us. For the year ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, the fees we received from managed accounts through intermediaries were $30.5 million, $28.5 million and $24.1 million, respectively. A substantial reduction in fees received from third-party intermediaries could have a material adverse affect on our business. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. Our investment management business depends on the expertise of our personnel and their ability to work together as an effective team. Our future success depends to a substantial degree on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. In particular, we anticipate that it will be necessary for us to add investment professionals as we further diversify our investment products and strategies. Competition for employees with the necessary qualifications is intense and we may not be successful in our efforts to recruit and retain the required personnel. We cannot guarantee that our compensation methods will allow us to recruit and retain the required personnel we need. In particular, the use of equity compensation may be ineffective if the market price of our Class A common stock declines. The inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could affect our ability to provide an acceptable level of service to our clients and funds and our ability to attract new clients and investors in our funds, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of our products. As of December 31, 2005, 41% of our assets under management were concentrated in the Calamos Growth Fund, and 43% of our investment management fees were attributable to that fund. As a result, our operating results are particularly exposed to the performance of that fund and our ability to minimize redemptions from and maintain assets under management in that fund. If investors in the Growth Fund decided to withdraw their investments for any reason, including poor investment performance or market conditions under which this investment strategy is out of favor, our revenues from that fund would decline and it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Similarly, if our investment management agreement with the Growth Fund were terminated for any reason, the decrease in revenues that would result from any such termination would materially impact our earnings. We cannot assure you that investors will continue to maintain their investments in, and that we will be able to maintain our investment management agreement with, our Growth Fund. We also may close funds and investment strategies to new investors, which could 19 Table of Contents inhibit our growth and could lead to redemptions by existing investors, and could thereby cause a decrease in our revenues. We are dependent on Calamos Holdings LLC to distribute cash to us in amounts sufficient to pay our tax liabilities and other expenses. We are a holding company, and our membership units in Calamos Holdings LLC are our primary asset. We have no significant independent means of generating revenues. Calamos Holdings LLC is treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes and, as such, is not itself subject to U.S. federal income tax. Instead, its taxable income is allocated on a pro rata basis to Calamos Asset Management, Inc., Calamos Family Partners, Inc. and John P. Calamos, Sr. Accordingly, we incur income taxes on our proportionate share of any net taxable income of Calamos Holdings LLC, and also incur expenses related to our operations. We caused and in the future intend to cause Calamos Holdings LLC to distribute cash to its members to the extent necessary to cover their tax liabilities, if any. To the extent we need funds to pay such taxes, or for any other purpose, and Calamos Holdings LLC is unable to provide such funds, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We intend to pay regular dividends to our stockholders, but our ability to do so is subject to the discretion of our board of directors and may be limited by our holding company structure and applicable provisions of Delaware law. To date, we have paid five quarterly cash dividends and intend to continue to pay dividends on a quarterly basis. Our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. In addition, as a holding company, we are dependent upon the ability of Calamos Holdings LLC to generate earnings and cash flows and distribute them to us so that we may pay our obligations and expenses and pay dividends to our stockholders. We caused and expect to cause Calamos Holdings LLC to make distributions to its members, including us. However, the ability of Calamos Holdings LLC to make such distributions is subject to its operating results, cash requirements and financial condition, the applicable laws of the State of Delaware (which may limit the amount of funds available for distribution to its members), its compliance with covenants and financial ratios related to existing or future indebtedness, including its existing Senior Unsecured Notes, and its other agreements with third parties. If, as a consequence of these various limitations and restrictions, we are unable to generate sufficient distributions from our business, we may not be able to make or may have to reduce or eliminate the payment of dividends on our shares. A change of control of our company would automatically terminate our investment management agreements with our clients, unless our separate account clients consent and, in the case of fund clients, the funds’ boards of directors and shareholders voted to continue the agreements, and could prevent us for a two-year period from increasing the investment advisory fees we are able to charge our mutual fund clients. Under the Investment Company Act, an investment management agreement with a fund must provide for its automatic termination in the event of its assignment. The fund’s board and shareholders must vote to continue the agreement following its assignment, the cost of which ordinarily would be borne by us. Under the Investment Advisers Act, a client’s investment management agreement may not be “assigned” by the investment advisor without the client’s consent. An investment management agreement is considered under both acts to be assigned to another party when a controlling block of the advisor’s securities is transferred. In our case, an assignment of our investment management agreements may occur if, among other things, we sell or issue a certain number of additional common shares in the future. We cannot be certain that our clients will consent to assignments of our investment management agreements or approve new agreements with us if a change of control occurs. Under the Investment Company Act, if a fund’s investment advisor engages in a transaction that results in the assignment of its investment management agreement with the fund, the advisor may not impose an “unfair burden” on that fund as a result of the transaction for a two-year period after the transaction is completed. The term “unfair burden” has been interpreted to include certain increases 20 Table of Contents in investment advisory fees. This restriction may discourage potential purchasers from acquiring a controlling interest in our company. Failure to improve or protect our intellectual property rights may have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend upon in-house technology and software across the Company. If we fail to improve, protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or if our Calamos Corporate System software or our software systems do not function properly, we could suffer business disruptions, financial losses, liability to clients and damage to our reputation or be subject to regulatory intervention. Damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business. Through excellent client service, outstanding risk-adjusted investment performance, comprehensive product offerings, superior distribution and a strong brand image, we have developed our reputation. The Calamos name and brand are valuable assets and any damage to either could hamper our ability to attract and retain clients and employees, thereby having a material adverse effect on our revenues and net income. Risks to our reputation may include regulatory inquires and unsubstantiated accusations and managing such matters may be expensive, time consuming and difficult. Risks Related to the Company The disparity in the voting rights among the classes of shares may have a potential adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. Shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock entitle the respective holders to identical rights, except that each share of our Class A common stock entitles its holder to one vote on all matters to be voted on by stockholders generally while each share of Class B common stock entitles its holder to a greater number of votes. The difference in voting rights could adversely affect the value of our Class A common stock to the extent that investors view, or any potential future purchaser of our company views, the superior voting rights of the Class B common stock to have value. Future sales of our Class A common stock in the public market could lower our stock price, and any additional capital raised by us through the sale of equity or convertible securities may dilute our stockholders ownership in us. We may sell additional shares of Class A common stock in subsequent public offerings. We also may issue additional shares of Class A common stock or convertible debt securities. As of December 31, 2005, we had 23,000,000 outstanding shares of Class A common stock. In addition, members of the Calamos family and trusts for their benefit own, individually and/or through their combined ownership of Calamos Family Partners, Inc., 77,000,000 membership units in Calamos Holdings LLC. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for the exchange of membership units in Calamos Holdings LLC (other than those held by us) for shares of our Class A common stock. Subject to certain selling restrictions, Calamos family members and their trusts could from time to time and for any reason exchange their membership units in Calamos Holdings LLC for shares of our Class A common stock and sell any or all of those shares. Calamos Family Partners, Inc. and John P. Calamos, Sr. are parties to a registration rights agreement with us. Under that agreement, Calamos Family Partners, Inc. and John P. Calamos, Sr. have the right to require us to effect the registration of shares of our Class A common stock that Calamos Family Partners, Inc. or John P. Calamos, Sr. could acquire upon conversion of their Class B common shares or exchange of their membership units in Calamos Holdings LLC. 21 Table of Contents We cannot predict the size of future issuances of our Class A common stock or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of shares of our Class A common stock, including by Calamos family members and their trusts, may have on the market price of our Class A common stock. Sales or distributions of substantial amounts of our Class A common stock (including shares issued in connection with an acquisition), or the perception that such sales could occur, may cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. The Calamos family’s beneficial ownership of our Class B common stock, as well as anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, could discourage a change of control that our stockholders may favor, which could negatively affect our stock price. Members of the Calamos family and trusts for their benefit beneficially own all outstanding shares of our Class B common stock. As a result, Calamos family members are able to exercise control over all matters requiring the approval of our stockholders and would be able to prevent a change in control of our company. In addition, provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may make it more difficult and expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to thwart a takeover attempt. The market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected to the extent that the Calamos family’s control over us, as well as provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, discourage potential takeover attempts that our stockholders may favor. If the Internal Revenue Service disallows all or any portion of the tax amortization deduction allocated to the company in association with the section 754 election made by Calamos Holdings LLC, the action could have a material adverse effect on our business. Calamos Holdings LLC made an election under section 754 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (a “section 754 election”). As a result of the section 754 election, Calamos Holdings LLC increased the company’s proportionate share of the tax basis of the assets of Calamos Holdings LLC to reflect the purchase price paid by the company for its interest in Calamos Holdings LLC. For federal income tax purposes, Calamos Holdings LLC is treated as a partnership and, based upon a third party valuation, its primary intangible assets include investment management contracts and distribution agreements. Based on an opinion of counsel, these types of customer-based intangibles should be amortizable intangibles for federal income tax purposes. Therefore, Calamos Holdings LLC allocated increased tax amortization deductions to the company, which reduced the company’s share of taxable income. However, if the Internal Revenue Service were to disallow all or any portion of the tax amortization deductions allocated to the company, based on the valuation or allocation or purchase price related to the section 754 election, this action could have a material adverse effect on our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The company did not receive written comments from the Commission staff during 2005. 