ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks and other information contained in this report. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition and cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks not presently known to us or which we consider immaterial based on information currently available to us may also materially adversely affect us. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to the Natural Gas Industry and Our Business We have incurred net losses from operations since inception. Our future performance is difficult to evaluate because we have a limited operating history. Our operations commenced in January 2004. Since our inception, we have incurred net losses. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we incurred net losses of $8.7 million, $4.8 million and $1.9 million, respectively. The uncertainty and factors described throughout this section may impede our ability to economically find, develop and acquire natural gas and oil reserves. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from operating activities in the future. Natural gas prices are volatile and a decline in prices could hurt our profitability, financial condition and ability to grow. Our revenues, operating results, profitability, future rate of growth and the carrying value of our gas properties depend heavily on the prices we receive from natural gas sales. Gas prices also affect our cash flows and borrowing base, as well as the amount and value of our gas reserves. Historically, the markets for gas have been volatile and they are likely to continue to be volatile. Wide fluctuations in gas prices may result from relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for gas, market uncertainty and other factors that are beyond our control, including: · domestic supplies of natural gas; · technological advances affecting energy consumption; · the price and availability of alternative fuels; · worldwide and domestic economic conditions; · the level of consumer demand; · the availability of transportation facilities; · weather conditions; and · governmental regulations and taxes. These factors and the volatility of gas markets make it very difficult to predict future gas price movements with any certainty. Declines in gas prices would reduce our revenues and could also reduce the amount of gas that we can produce economically and therefore could have a material adverse effect on us. Substantial acquisitions or other transactions could require significant external capital and could change our risk and property profile. In order to finance acquisitions of additional producing properties, we may need to alter or increase our capitalization substantially through the issuance of debt or equity securities, the sale of production payments or other means. These changes in capitalization may significantly affect our risk profile. Additionally, significant acquisitions or other transactions could change the character of our operations and business. The character of the new properties could be substantially different in operating or geological characteristics or geographic location than our existing properties. Furthermore, we may not be able to obtain external funding for future acquisitions or other transactions or to obtain external funding on terms acceptable to us. If we are not able to replace reserves, we will not be able to sustain production. Our future operations depend on our ability to find, develop and acquire oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. Our properties produce gas at a declining rate over time. In order to become profitable we must develop our recently acquired properties or locate and acquire new oil and gas reserves to replace those being depleted by production. We may do this even during periods of low oil and gas prices. Competition for the acquisition of producing oil and gas properties is intense and many of our competitors have financial and other resources for acquisitions that are substantially greater than those available to us. Therefore, we may not be able to acquire oil and gas properties that contain economically recoverable reserves, or we may not be able to acquire such properties at prices acceptable to us. Without successful drilling or acquisition activities, our reserves, production and revenues will decline. Properties we acquire may not produce as projected, and we may be unable to identify liabilities associated with the properties or obtain protection from sellers against them. Our business strategy includes an acquisition program. The successful acquisition of producing oil and gas properties requires assessments of many factors, which are inherently inexact and may be inaccurate, including the following: · the amount of recoverable reserves; · future oil and natural gas prices; · estimates of operating costs; · estimates of future development costs; · estimates of the costs and timing of plugging and abandonment; and · potential environmental and other liabilities. Our assessment will not reveal all existing or potential problems, and may not permit us to become familiar enough with the properties to fully assess their capabilities and deficiencies. In the course of our due diligence, we may not inspect every well or 7 pipeline. Inspections may not reveal structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion or groundwater contamination, when they are made. We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. We may be required to assume the environmental and production risks associated with the properties. The guarantee of certain indebtedness of our subsidiary and the covenants in the agreements governing that debt and the guarantee could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and business prospects. On December 28, 2006, we issued $15 million in Debentures to certain lenders. We guaranteed payment of this debt and pledged substantially all of our assets as collateral. If we fail to comply with the covenants and other restrictions in the agreements governing the Debentures, an event of default could occur that would permit the lenders to foreclose on substantially all of our assets. Our ability to comply with these covenants and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic and financial conditions. If we cannot make certain payments under the Debentures, we may not have sufficient funds to make the guaranteed payments. If we are required but unable to make the guaranteed payments under the Debentures out of cash on hand or from internal cash flow, we could attempt to refinance the Debentures, sell assets, or repay the Debentures with the proceeds from an equity or debt offering. However, we may not be able to raise sufficient capital through the sale of assets or issuance of equity or debt to pay or refinance the amounts owed. The terms of the Secured Guaranty and the Debentures may also prohibit us from taking such actions without first retiring the debt represented by the Debentures. Factors that will affect our ability to raise cash through a sale of assets or a debt or equity offering include financial market conditions and our market value and operating performance at the time of such offering or other financing. We may, therefore, not be able to successfully complete any such offering or sale of assets. The agreements governing the Debentures contain various covenants limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business. The guarantee of, and the agreements governing, the Debentures contain various restrictive covenants. In particular, these agreements limit our ability, without lenders’ approval, to, among other things: · pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; · make loans to others; · incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock; · create certain liens; and · purchase or sell assets. If we fail to comply with the restrictions in the Secured Guaranty, or the agreements governing, the Debentures, an event of default may allow the creditors to foreclose on substantially all of our assets. Any such default or foreclosure could have a material adverse effect on us. We may be required to make significant cash payments if we fail to satisfy certain registration requirements set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement. In connection with the $15 million Debentures, we issued 1,250,000 shares of common stock to DKR Soundshore Oasis Holding Fund Ltd. and West Coast Opportunity Fund, LLC and entered into a Registration Rights Agreement. Pursuant to that agreement, if we fail to: (i) have the registration statement declared effective by the SEC on or before the date that is 150 days after December 28, 2006 (an “Effectiveness Failure”) or (ii) maintain the effectiveness of this registration statement while shares of common stock covered by the Registration Rights Agreement remain unsold (a “Maintenance Failure”), then, unless the grace periods set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement apply, as partial relief for the damages to any holder by any such delay in or reduction of its ability to sell the shares of common stock, we must pay to each holder an amount in cash equal to 1% of the aggregate purchase price (as such term is defined in the Securities Purchase Agreement for the Debentures) allocable to such holder’s securities on each of the following dates: (i) the day of an Effectiveness Failure and on every 30th day thereafter until such Maintenance Failure is cured and (ii) the initial day of a Maintenance Failure and on every 30th day thereafter until such Maintenance Failure is cured. If we fail to make these registration delay payments in a timely manner, the registration delay payments will bear interest at the rate of 2% per month until paid in full. The aggregate amount of registration delay payments may not exceed $750,000. We filed the registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC on February 2, 2007. Our Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes (the “Notes”) are collateralized by some of our assets, which could result in a loss of those assets if we were to default on those debt instruments. During the first quarter of 2006, we issued through a private offering approximately $22 million the Notes that carry an interest rate of 10% per annum, with interest due and payable on a quarterly basis. The Notes are collateralized by certain of our gathering assets. If we cannot make certain payments under the Notes, we may default upon our obligations and the noteholders under the Notes and our creditors could foreclose on these assets. Under certain circumstances, a default upon our obligations under the Notes could lead to an event of default under the Debentures. Any such default or foreclosure could have a material adverse effect on us. Our development operations require substantial capital and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a disposition of properties and a decline in our natural gas reserves. The energy industry is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. To date, we have financed capital 8 expenditures primarily with proceeds from the issuance of debt and equity plus cash generated by operations. We intend to finance our future capital expenditures with cash flow from operations and from debt or equity capital. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital is subject to a number of variables, including: · our proved reserves; · the level of natural gas we are able to produce from existing wells; · the prices at which natural gas is sold; and · our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves. If our revenues decrease as a result of lower natural gas prices, operating difficulties, declines in reserves or for any other reason, then we may have limited ability to obtain the capital necessary to sustain our operations at current levels. We may, from time to time, need to seek additional financing. There can be no assurance as to the availability or terms of any additional financing. If additional capital is needed, then we may not be able to obtain debt or equity financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. If cash generated by operations is not sufficient to meet our capital requirements, the failure to obtain additional financing could result in a curtailment of our operations relating to development of our prospects, which in turn could lead to a possible disposition of properties and a decline in our reserves. Drilling for and producing oil and natural gas are high risk activities with many uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Drilling and production activities are subject to numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas will be found. The cost of drilling and completing wells is often uncertain, and oil and gas drilling and production activities may be shortened, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: · unexpected drilling conditions; · title problems; · pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · adverse weather conditions; · compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; · delays caused by regulatory approvals from state, local and other governmental authorities; · shortages or delays in the availability of or increases in the cost of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment; · lack of availability of experienced drilling crews; and · lack of pipeline availability or pipeline capacity. The wells we drill may not be productive and we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in such wells. The seismic data and other technologies that we use do not allow us to know conclusively prior to drilling a well that oil or gas is present or may be produced economically. The cost of drilling, completing and operating a well is often uncertain, and cost factors can adversely affect the economics of a project. Drilling activities can result in dry holes or wells that are productive but do not produce sufficient net revenues after operating and other costs to cover initial drilling costs. Our future drilling activities may not be successful, or our overall drilling success rate or our drilling success rate for activity within a particular area may decline. Although we have identified numerous potential drilling locations, we may not be able to economically produce oil or natural gas from them. The occurrence of any or all of these risks could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our use of 2-D and 3-D seismic data is subject to interpretation and may not accurately identify the presence of natural gas which could adversely affect the results of our drilling operations. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. Substantially all of our producing properties are located in the Rocky Mountain region, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating in one major geographic area. Our operations are focused on the Rocky Mountain region, which means our producing properties are geographically located in the states of Colorado, Nebraska and Wyoming. As a result, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of delays or interruptions of production from these areas caused by significant governmental regulation, transportation capacity constraints, curtailment of production or interruption of transportation of natural gas produced from the wells in these basins. Our operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions for which we may be inadequately insured, resulting in losses to us. Our operations, including gathering, processing, exploitation and production, are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions such as natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents, fires, explosions, hazardous materials releases, mechanical failures and other events beyond our control. These events might result in a loss of equipment or life, injury or extensive property damage, as well as an interruption in our operations. We may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. 9 A significant liability for which we were not fully insured could adversely affect us. Our operations are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, that may result in substantial costs and other risks. Federal, state and local authorities extensively regulate the energy industry. Legislation and regulations affecting the industry are under constant review for amendment or expansion, raising the possibility of changes that may affect, among other things, the pricing or marketing of gas production. Noncompliance with statutes and regulations may lead to substantial penalties, and the overall regulatory burden on the industry increases the cost of doing business and, in turn, decreases profitability. Governmental authorities regulate various aspects of gas drilling and production, including the drilling of wells (through permit and bonding requirements), the spacing of wells, the unitization or pooling of gas properties, environmental matters, safety standards, the sharing of markets, production limitations, plugging and abandonment and restoration. Our operations are also subject to complex and constantly changing environmental laws and regulations adopted by federal, state and local governmental authorities in jurisdictions where we are engaged in development or production operations. New laws or regulations, or changes to current requirements, could result in material costs or claims with respect to properties we own or have owned. We will continue to be subject to uncertainty associated with new regulatory interpretations and inconsistent interpretations between state and federal agencies. We could face significant liabilities to governmental authorities and third parties for discharges of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water, and we could have to spend substantial amounts on investigations, litigation and remediation. Existing environmental laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or enforced, or as they may be interpreted, enforced or altered in the future, may have a material adverse effect on us. Future oil and gas price declines or unsuccessful development efforts may result in write-downs of our development and production asset carrying values, thereby reducing our assets and net worth. We follow the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas properties. All property acquisition costs and costs of development wells are capitalized when incurred, pending the determination of whether proved reserves have been discovered. The capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties, on a field basis, cannot exceed the estimated future net cash flows of that field. If net capitalized costs exceed future net revenues, we must write-down the costs of each such field to our estimate of fair market value. Unproved properties are evaluated at the lower of cost or fair market value. Accordingly, a significant decline in oil or gas prices or unsuccessful development efforts could cause a future write-down of capitalized costs, reducing our assets and net worth. We review the carrying value of our properties quarterly based on prices in effect as of the end of each quarter. Once incurred, a write-down of oil and gas properties cannot be reversed at a later date even if oil or gas prices increase. Competition in our industry is intense and many of our competitors have greater financial and technical resources than we do. We face intense competition from major oil companies, independent oil and gas exploration and production companies, financial buyers and institutional and individual investors who are actively seeking oil and gas properties in the Rocky Mountain region in which we operate and elsewhere. Many of our competitors have financial and technical resources along with equipment, expertise, labor and materials significantly exceeding those available to us. In addition, many properties are sold in a competitive bidding process in which our competitors may be able to pay more for development prospects and productive properties, or in which our competitors have technological information or expertise to evaluate and successfully bid for the properties that is not available to us. Shortages of equipment, labor or materials as a result of intense competition may result in increased costs or the inability to obtain those resources as needed. We, therefore, may not be successful in acquiring and developing profitable properties in the face of this competition. A significant decrease in the supply of natural gas from our gas gathering customers could reduce our revenue and earnings. Investments by our gas gathering customers in the maintenance of existing wells and the further development of their reserves will affect their production rates and the volume of gas we gather. Drilling activity generally decreases as gas prices decrease. We have no control over our customers’ level of drilling activity, the amount of reserves underlying their wells and the rate at which their production from a well will decline. Drilling activity of our customers is affected by, among other things, prevailing and projected energy prices, demand for hydrocarbons, geological considerations, governmental regulation and the availability and cost of capital. A significant decrease in the supply of natural gas we are gathering would reduce our revenue and results of operations. We depend on our chief executive and chief operating officers for critical management decisions and industry contacts. We do not have employment agreements with our chief executive and chief operating officers and do not carry key person insurance on their lives. The loss of the services of either of these executive officers, through incapacity or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and would require us to seek and retain other qualified personnel. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 10 ITEM 