ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSRisks Relating to Our IndustryThe U.S. government's monetary policies or changes in those policies could cause changes in interests rates which could adversely affect our performance. Generally, increases in prevailing interest rates due to changes in monetary policies or market forces adversely affect banks such as us, whose liabilities tend to re-price quicker than their assets. The monetary policies of the FRB, affected principally through open market operations and regulation of the discount rate and reserve requirements, have had major effects upon the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits, and prevailing interest rates. It is not possible to predict the nature or effect of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. In recent years, the monetary policy of the FRB has acted to reduce market interest rates to historical lows, but in recent months prevailing interest rates have begun to increase and the financial markets are anticipating a tapering of the FRB's purchases of government bonds and mortgage-backed securities, which would likely cause interest rates to increase further. We manage the sensitivity of our assets and liabilities; however a large and relatively rapid increase in market interest rates would likely have an adverse impact on our net interest income and a decrease in our refinancing business, and could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing loans in our adjustable-rate loans.A significant economic downturn could result in increases in our level of non-performing loans and/or reduce demand for our products and services, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business and results of operations are affected by the financial markets and general economic conditions, including factors such as the level and volatility of interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment levels, bankruptcies, household income and consumer spending. While the national economy and certain regions have improved since the recent financial crisis and economic recession, we continue to operate in a challenging and uncertain economic environment. The risks associated with our business become more acute in periods of a slowing economy or slow growth. A return or continuation of recessionary conditions or negative events in the housing markets, including significant and continuing home price reductions and increased delinquencies and foreclosures, will likely result in poor performance of mortgage and construction loans and asset write-downs. In addition, poor economic conditions, including continued high unemployment in the United States and the recent European sovereign debt crisis, have contributed to increased volatility in the financial and capital markets and diminished expectations for the U.S. economy. While we are continuing to take steps to decrease and limit our exposure to problem loans, we nonetheless retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and we are affected by these events. Further declines in real estate values and continued high unemployment levels may result in higher than expected loan delinquencies and a decline in demand for our products and services. These negative events may cause us to incur losses and may adversely affect our capital, financial condition and results of operations.The actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions could affect our ability to engage in routine funding transactions.Financial service institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. We have exposure to the European banking system, which is facing increased volatility due to the economic difficulties and declining credit worthiness of certain member nations of the European Union. We have exposure to different industries and counterparties because we execute or could execute transactions with various counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. Defaults by financial services institutions during the last financial crisis, and even rumors or questions about one or more financial services institutions or the financial services industry in general, have led to market wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of counterparty. Any such losses could materially and adversely affect our results of operations.19Table of ContentsAdditional requirements imposed by the Dodd-Frank Act could adversely affect us.On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, which restructured the regulation of depository institutions, including the Company and the Bank. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Office of Thrift Supervision, which formerly regulated the Bank, was merged into the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Savings and loan holding companies such as the Company are now regulated by the Federal Reserve Board. Also included in the Dodd-Frank Act is the creation of a new federal agency, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, to administer consumer protection and fair lending laws, a function that was formerly performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws that was formerly accorded federally chartered depository institutions has been reduced as well and State Attorneys General now have greater authority to bring a suit against federally chartered institutions for violations of certain state and federal consumer protection laws. In addition, Regulation Q, which prohibited the payment of interest on demand deposits, has now been eliminated, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change in the law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes consolidated capital requirements on savings and loan holding companies effective in 2015. The Dodd-Frank Act contains various other provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis, but many of the provisions remain subject to final rulemaking and/or study. Accordingly, we cannot fully assess its impact on our operations and costs until final regulations are adopted and implemented. Current and future legal and regulatory requirements, restrictions, and regulations, including those imposed under the Dodd-Frank Act, may adversely impact our profitability and may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations, may require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make any changes required by the legislation and related regulations and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified executive officers and employees.Risks Relating to Mortgage Loans and Mortgage-Backed SecuritiesDeclining real estate values, particularly in California, could reduce the value of our loan portfolio and impair our profitability and financial condition.The majority of the loans in our portfolio are secured by real estate. At June 30, 2014, approximately 61.7% of our mortgage portfolio was secured by real estate located in California. In recent years, there has been significant volatility in real estate values in California and in some cases the collateral for our real estate loans has become less valuable. If real estate values decrease or more of our borrowers experience financial difficulties, we will experience increased charge-offs, as the proceeds resulting from foreclosure may be significantly lower than the amounts outstanding on such loans. In addition, declining real estate values frequently accompany periods of economic downturn or recession and increasing unemployment, all of which can lead to lower demand for mortgage loans of the types we originate. A decline of real estate values or decline of the credit position of our borrowers in California would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.Many of our mortgage loans are unseasoned and defaults on such loans would harm our business.At June 30, 2014, our multifamily residential loans were $978.5 million or 34.8% of our mortgage loans and our commercial real estate loans were $24.1 million, or 0.8% of our mortgage loans. The payment on such loans is typically dependent on the cash flows generated by the projects, which are affected by the supply and demand for multifamily residential units and commercial property within the relative market. If the market for multifamily residential units and commercial property experiences a decline in demand, multifamily and commercial borrowers may suffer losses on their projects and be unable to repay their loans. If residential housing values were to decline and nationwide unemployment were to increase, we are likely to experience increases in the level of our non-performing loans and foreclosed and repossessed vehicles in future periods.If the economic recovery does not continue or the economy deteriorates, our mortgage-backed securities portfolio could be adversely impacted. The recent financial crisis and economic recession were accompanied by severe stress in the housing markets, including substantial declines in home prices. These declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, compounded with difficulties in the economy, resulted in a significant decline in the value and marketability of mortgage-backed securities. As of June 30, 2014, our securities portfolio consisted of $305.9 million of mortgage-backed securities, which constituted approximately 6.9% of our total assets. A return of recessionary conditions could adversely impact the ability of the issuers of the mortgage-backed securities in our securities portfolio to satisfy their respective obligations and our ability to liquidate our securities portfolio. While the national economy and certain regions have improved since the financial crisis and economic recession, the performance of our mortgage securities portfolio may decline in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.20Table of ContentsWe could recognize other-than-temporary impairment on securities held in our available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios, if economic and market conditions worsen.Our held-to-maturity securities had gross unrecognized losses of $15.5 million at June 30, 2014. We analyze securities held in our portfolio for other-than-temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. The process for determining whether impairment is other-than-temporary requires difficult, subjective judgments about the future financial performance of the issuer and any collateral underlying the security in order to assess the probability of receiving all contractual principal and interest payments on the security. Because of changing economic and market conditions affecting issuers and the performance of the underlying collateral, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairment in future periods reducing future earnings.A decrease in the mortgage buying activity of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or a failure by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to satisfy their obligations with respect to their RMBS could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.During the last three fiscal years we have sold over $1,274.4 million of residential mortgage loans to the government sponsored entities GSE aggregators and, as of June 30, 2014, approximately 22.92% of our securities portfolio consisted of RMBS issued or guaranteed by the GSEs. Each GSE is currently in conservatorship, with its primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, acting as conservator. The United States government is contemplating structural changes to the GSEs, including consolidation and/or a reduction in the ability of GSEs to purchase mortgage loans or guarantee mortgage obligations. We cannot predict if, when or how the conservatorships will end, or what associated changes (if any) may be made to the structure, mandate or overall business practices of either of the GSEs. Accordingly, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the future of the GSEs, including whether they will continue to exist in their current form and whether they will continue to meet their obligations with respect to their RMBS. A substantial reduction in mortgage purchasing activity by the GSEs could result in a material decrease in the availability of residential mortgage loans and the number of qualified borrowers, which in turn may lead to increased volatility in the residential housing market, including a decrease in demand for residential housing and a corresponding drop in the value of real property that secures current residential mortgage loans, as well as a significant increase in interest rates. In a rising or higher interest rate environment, our originations of mortgage loans may decrease, which would result in a decrease in mortgage loan revenues and a corresponding decrease in non-interest income. Any decision to change the structure, mandate or overall business practices of the GSEs and/or the relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private mortgage loan markets, or any failure by the GSEs to satisfy their obligations with respect to their RMBS, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.We occasionally purchase loans in bulk or “pools.” We may experience lower yields or losses on loan “pools” because the assumptions we use when purchasing loans in bulk may not prove correct.From time to time, we purchase real estate loans in bulk or “pools.” For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 we purchased $0.1 million real estate loans and in the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013 we purchase $1.5 million real estate loan pools. In the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, we purchased loans totaling $0.0 million and $124.8 million, respectively, most of which are still in our loan portfolio. When we determine the purchase price we are willing to pay to purchase loans in bulk, management makes certain assumptions about, among other things, how fast borrowers will prepay their loans, the real estate market and our ability to collect loans successfully and, if necessary, to dispose of any real estate that may be acquired through foreclosure. When we purchase loans in bulk, we perform certain due diligence procedures and we purchase the loans subject to customary limited indemnities. To the extent that our underlying assumptions prove to be inaccurate or the basis for those assumptions change (such as an unanticipated decline in the real estate market), the purchase price paid for “pools” of loans may prove to have been excessive, resulting in a lower yield or a loss of some or all of the loan principal. For example, in the past, we have purchased “pools” of loans at a premium and some of the loans were prepaid before we expected. Accordingly, we earned less interest income on the purchase than expected. Our success in growing through purchases of loan “pools” depends on our ability to price loan “pools” properly and on general economic conditions in the geographic areas where the underlying properties of our loans are located.Acquiring loans through bulk purchases may involve acquiring loans of a type or in geographic areas where management may not have substantial prior experience. We may be exposed to a greater risk of loss to the extent that bulk purchases contain such loans.21Table of ContentsRisks Relating to the CompanyOur pending transaction with H&R Block Bank may not close as anticipated.On April 10, 2014, we announced that BofI Federal Bank has entered into a definitive Purchase and Assumption Agreement with H&R Block Bank, a federal savings bank (“HRBB”), and its parent company Block Financial LLC, pursuant to which the Bank agreed to purchase certain assets and assume all of the deposits of HRBB. In addition, we have agreed with HRBB to the terms of a Program Management Agreement (“PMA”) under which the Bank will provide certain H&R Block-branded financial services products to customers of H&R Block, Inc. (“HRB”). The closing of the pending transactions with HRBB is subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions. We have filed a regulatory application with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. HRBB has filed for regulatory approval with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Approval of these regulatory applications by these agencies is necessary to complete the HRBB transaction. If the regulatory approvals are not received or the customary closing conditions are not satisfied, the transaction with HRBB will likely not be consummated in its current form, or at all. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction with HRBB.The success of our pending transaction with HRBB will depend upon, among other things, our ability to combine and integrate the assumed deposits, our ability to operate the PMA and HRB’s desire and ability to offer financial services products to customers after the closing date. Our objectives with regard to executing the assumption of the deposits and managing our obligations under the PMA are subject to risks that operational and regulatory procedures may change. Under the terms of the PMA there are no minimum transaction levels and the number of transactions that are processed may be more or less than expected due to business changes by HRB, regulatory changes or changes due to competition for HRB’s products. If we are not able to successfully achieve our objectives or if HRB limits, eliminates or fails to realize the expected volumes for one or more of the financial services products described in the PMA, the anticipated benefits of the transaction with HRBB may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. In addition, the transaction with HRBB will require substantial resources and effort from our management. The integration process and other disruptions resulting from the transaction may disrupt our ongoing businesses or cause inconsistencies in our standards, controls, procedures or policies. In addition, difficulties in integrating the functions following completion of the transaction could harm our reputation with customers.If our allowance for loan losses, particularly in growing areas of lending such as C&I and specialty finance loans, is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings, capital adequacy and overall financial condition may suffer materially.Our loans are generally secured by multifamily and, to a lesser extent, commercial and single family real estate properties, each initially having a fair market value generally greater than the amount of the loan secured. Although our loans are typically secured, the risk of default, generally due to a borrower's inability to make scheduled payments on his or her loan, is an inherent risk of the banking business. In determining the amount of the allowance for loan losses, we make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers, the value of the real estate serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans and our loss history. Defaults by borrowers could result in losses that exceed our loan loss reserves. We have originated or purchased many of our loans recently, so we do not have sufficient repayment experience to be certain whether the established allowance for loan losses is adequate. We may have to establish a larger allowance for loan losses in the future if, in our judgment, it becomes necessary. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses will increase our expenses and consequently may adversely affect our profitability, capital adequacy and overall financial condition.In addition, we have recently begun to increase our emphasis on non-residential lending, particularly in commercial and industrial (C&I) lending and specialty finance lending, and these types of loans are expected to comprise a larger portion of our originations and loan portfolio in future periods. To the extent that we fail to adequately address the risks associated with C&I and specialty finance lending, we may experience increases in levels of non-performing loans and be forced to take additional loan loss reserves, which would adversely affect our net interest income and capital levels and reduce our profitability. For further information about our C&I lending business, please refer to “Business - Asset Origination and Fee Income Businesses - Commercial Real Estate Secured and Commercial Lending.” Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies.The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our 22Table of Contentsresults of operations. Such methods, estimates, and judgments, include methodologies to value our securities, evaluate securities for other-than-temporary impairment and estimate our allowance for loan losses. These methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations.We may seek additional capital but it may not be available when it is needed and limit our ability to execute our strategic plan. In addition, raising additional equity capital would dilute existing shareholders' equity interests and may cause our stock price to decline. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support the growth of our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we elect to raise additional capital for other reasons. We may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, which could dilute existing shareholders' interests in the Company.Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance on our ability to raise additional capital if needed or if it can be raised on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed or on terms acceptable to us, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, raising equity capital will have a dilutive effect on the equity interests of our existing shareholders and may cause our stock price to decline.Changes in interest rates could adversely affect our performance. Our results of operations depend to a great extent on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. We are exposed to interest rate risk, since our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities do not react uniformly or concurrently to changes in interest rates, since the two have different time periods for interest rate adjustment and can be tied to different measures of interest rates. Interest rates are sensitive to factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, including the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, influence the origination of loans, the prepayment of loans, and the volume of deposits. Loan originations and repayment rates tend to increase with declining interest rates and decrease with rising interest rates. On the deposit side, increasing interest rates generally lead to interest rate increases on our deposit accounts. In recent years, the monetary policy of the FRB has acted to reduce market interest rates to historical lows, but in recent months prevailing interest rates have begun to increase and the financial markets are anticipating a tapering of the FRB's purchases of government bonds and mortgage-backed securities, which would likely cause interest rates to increase further. We manage the sensitivity of our assets and liabilities; however a large and relatively rapid increase in market interest rates would likely have an adverse impact on our net interest income and a decrease in our refinancing business, and could cause an increase in delinquencies and non-performing loans in our adjustable-rate loans.Access to adequate funding cannot be assured.We have significant sources of liquidity as a result of our federal thrift structure, including consumer deposits, brokered deposits, the FHLB, repurchase lending facilities, and the FRB discount window. We rely primarily upon consumer deposits and FHLB advances. Our ability to attract deposits could be negatively impacted by a public perception of our financial prospects or by increased deposit rates available at troubled institutions suffering from shortfalls in liquidity. The FHLB is subject to regulation and other factors beyond our control. These factors may adversely affect the availability and pricing of advances to members such as the Bank. Selected sources of liquidity may become unavailable to the Bank if it were to no longer be considered “well-capitalized.”Our inability to manage our growth or deploy assets profitably could harm our business and decrease our overall profitability, which may cause our stock price to decline.Our assets and deposit base have grown substantially in recent years, and we anticipate that we will continue to grow over time, perhaps significantly. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will be required to manage multiple aspects of the business simultaneously, including among other things: (i) improve existing and implement new transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls; (ii) maintain effective credit scoring and underwriting guidelines; (iii) maintain sufficient levels of regulatory capital; and (iv) expand our employee base and train and manage this growing employee base. In addition, acquiring other banks, asset pools or deposits may involve risks such as exposure to potential 23Table of Contentsasset quality issues, disruption to our normal business activities and diversion of management's time and attention due to integration and conversion efforts. If we are unable to manage growth effectively or execute integration efforts properly, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated benefits of growth and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to sustain past levels of profitability as we grow, and our past levels of profitability should not be considered a guarantee or indicator of future success. If we are not able to maintain our levels of profitability by deploying growth in our deposits in profitable assets or investments, our net interest margin and overall level of profitability will decrease and our stock price may decline. We face strong competition for customers and may not succeed in implementing our business strategy.Our business strategy depends on our ability to remain competitive. There is strong competition for customers from existing banks and other types of financial institutions, including those that use the Internet as a medium for banking transactions or as an advertising platform. Our competitors include large, publicly-traded, Internet-based banks, as well as smaller Internet-based banks; “brick and mortar” banks, including those that have implemented websites to facilitate online banking; and traditional banking institutions such as thrifts, finance companies, credit unions and mortgage banks. Some of these competitors have been in business for a long time and have name recognition and an established customer base. Most of our competitors are larger and have greater financial and personnel resources. In order to compete profitably, we may need to reduce the rates we offer on loans and investments and increase the rates we offer on deposits, which actions may adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.To remain competitive, we believe we must successfully implement our business strategy. Our success depends on, among other things:•Having a large and increasing number of customers who use our bank for their banking needs;•Our ability to attract, hire and retain key personnel as our business grows;•Our ability to secure additional capital as needed;•The relevance of our products and services to customer needs and demands and the rate at which we and our competitors introduce or modify new products and services;•Our ability to offer products and services with fewer employees than competitors;•The satisfaction of our customers with our customer service;•Ease of use of our websites; and•Our ability to provide a secure and stable technology platform for financial services that provides us with reliable and effective operational, financial and information systems.If we are unable to implement our business strategy, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.We expect the rate of our revenue growth to decline and consequently anticipate downward pressure on our operating margins in the future.We believe the rate of our revenue growth will, at some point, generally decline as a result of a number of factors, including the inevitable decline in growth rates as our revenues increase to higher levels and the continued maturity of the internet-based banking market. We believe our operating margin will experience downward pressure as a result of increasing competition and increased expenditures for many aspects of our business, including increased expenditures for attracting new customers and retaining existing customers.Our business depends on a strong brand, and failing to maintain and enhance our brand would hurt our ability to expand our customer base.The brand identities that we have developed will significantly contribute to the success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the “BofI Federal Bank” brands (including our other trade styles and trade names such as apartmentbank.com) is critical to expanding our customer base. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase due to the relatively low barriers to entry for our “brick and mortar” competitors in the internet-based banking market. Our brands could be negatively impacted by a number of factors, including data privacy and security issues, service outages, and product malfunctions. If we fail to maintain and enhance our “BofI Federal Bank” brands, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide high-quality products and services, which we may not do successfully.24Table of ContentsA natural disaster or recurring energy shortage, especially in California, could harm our business.We are based in San Diego, California, and approximately 61.7% of our mortgage loan portfolio was secured by real estate located in California at June 30, 2014. In addition, some of our computer systems that operate our internet websites and their back-up systems are located in San Diego, California. Historically, California has been vulnerable to natural disasters. Therefore, we are susceptible to the risks of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, wildfires, floods and mudslides. Natural disasters could harm our operations directly through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of our websites, which would prevent us from gathering deposits, originating loans and processing and controlling our flow of business, as well as through the destruction of facilities and our operational, financial and management information systems. A natural disaster or recurring power outages may also impair the value of our largest class of assets, our loan portfolio, which is comprised substantially of real estate loans. Uninsured or under-insured disasters may reduce borrowers' ability to repay mortgage loans. Disasters may also reduce the value of the real estate securing our loans, impairing our ability to recover on defaulted loans through foreclosure and making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. California has also experienced energy shortages, which, if they recur, could impair the value of the real estate in those affected areas. Although we have implemented several back-up systems and protections (and maintain standard business interruption insurance), these measures may not protect us fully from the effects of a natural disaster. The occurrence of natural disasters or energy shortages in California could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.Our success depends in large part on the continuing efforts of a few individuals. If we are unable to retain these key personnel or attract, hire and retain others to oversee and manage our company, our business could suffer.Our success depends substantially on the skill and abilities of our senior management team, including our Chief Executive Officer and President, Gregory Garrabrants, our Chief Financial Officer, Andrew J. Micheletti, and other employees that perform multiple functions that might otherwise be performed by separate individuals at larger banks. The loss of the services of any of these individuals or other key employees, whether through termination of employment, disability or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, our ability to grow and manage our growth depends on our ability to continue to identify, attract, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled executive, technical, managerial, sales, marketing, customer service and professional personnel. The implementation of our business plan and our future success will depend on such qualified personnel. Competition for such employees is intense, and there is a risk that we will not be able to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. If we fail to attract and retain the necessary personnel, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.We are exposed to risk of environmental liability with respect to properties to which we take title.In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to those properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, if we are the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.Risks Relating to Being an Internet-Based CompanyWe depend on third-party service providers for our core banking technology, and interruptions in or terminations of their services could materially impair the quality of our services.We rely substantially upon third-party service providers for our core banking technology and to protect us from bank system failures or disruptions. This reliance may mean that we will not be able to resolve operational problems internally or on a timely basis, which could lead to customer dissatisfaction or long-term disruption of our operations. Our operations also depend upon our ability to replace a third-party service provider if it experiences difficulties that interrupt operations or if an essential third-party service terminates. If these service arrangements are terminated for any reason without an immediately available substitute arrangement, our operations may be severely interrupted or delayed. If such interruption or delay were to continue for a substantial period of time, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.25Table of ContentsPrivacy concerns relating to our technology could damage our reputation and deter current and potential customers from using our products and services.Generally speaking, concerns have been expressed about whether internet-based products and services compromise the privacy of users and others. Concerns about our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information of our customers or other privacy related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and results of operations. While we strive to comply with all applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies, any failure or perceived failure to comply may result in proceedings or actions against us by government entities or others, or could cause us to lose customers, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business.In addition, as nearly all of our products and services are internet-based, the amount of data we store for our customers on our servers (including personal information) has been increasing and will continue to increase. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the release of our customers' data could seriously limit the adoption of our products and services, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. We may also need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we add more customers and expand the number of internet-based products and services we offer.Regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.We have risks of systems failure and security risks, including “hacking” and “identity theft.”The computer systems and network infrastructure utilized by us and others could be vulnerable to unforeseen problems. This is true of both our internally developed systems and the systems of our third-party service providers. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect computer equipment against damage from fire, power loss, telecommunication failure or similar catastrophic events.Any damage or failure that causes an interruption in our operations or security breaches such as hacking or identity theft could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.If our security measures are breached, or if our services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of customers to access our products and services, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or stop using our products and services, and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure.Our products and services involve the storage and transmission of customers' proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, and potential liability. Our security measures may be breached due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data or our customers' data. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our customers' data. Any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services that could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and, as a result, we could lose customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the internet by us and our customers. Internet access providers may be able to block, degrade, or charge for access to our website, which could lead to additional expenses and the loss of customers.Our products and services depend on the ability of our customers to access the internet and our website. Currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies and mobile communications companies. Some of these providers have the ability to take measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of customer access to our products and services by restricting 26Table of Contentsor prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to access our website or by charging fees to us or our customers to provide access to our website. Such interference could result in a loss of existing customers and/or increased costs and could impair our ability to attract new customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.