Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred losses since inception and anticipate that we will incur continued losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1996. Our net loss for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, 2003, 2002 and 2001 was $163.0 million, $21.8 million, $2.5 million, $2.9 million and $4.1 million, respectively. The loss in 2005 includes a charge for impairment of goodwill of $147.5 million. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $211.0 million. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity and working capital. We expect our clinical and regulatory expenses to increase significantly in connection with any follow-up clinical trial of the RHEO™ System and other clinical trials that we may initiate. In addition, subject to FDA approval of the RHEO™ System, we expect to incur significant sales, marketing and procurement expenses. As a result, we expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses for the next several years. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with developing new medical therapies, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. 32 Our business may not generate the cash necessary to fund our operations. Since inception, we have funded our operations through private placements of our equity and debt securities, early stage revenues and a successful initial public offering, or IPO. Prior to the IPO, our cash resources were limited. We may need additional capital in the future, and our prospects for obtaining it are uncertain. We expect that the funding requirements for our operating activities will continue to increase substantially in the future, especially if we are required to conduct a follow-up clinical trial of the RHEO™ System to support our PMA application to the FDA, and as a consequence of our planned subsequent commercialization of the RHEO™ System. We may need to seek additional funds in the future from a combination of sources, including product licensing, joint development and other financing arrangements. In addition, we may issue debt or equity securities if we determine that additional cash resources could be obtained under favorable conditions or if future funding requirements cannot be satisfied with available cash resources. Additional capital may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate capital is unavailable, and if our operations do not generate cash, our commercialization of the RHEO™ System will be delayed and we may be unable to continue our operations. We do not know whether we will be able to increase our revenues, derive revenues from sources other than sales to a related party or become profitable in the future. We were founded in 1996 but the focus of our operations since 2000 was directed towards our pivotal trial, MIRA-1, for the RHEO™ System. Prior to 2000, our focus had been on commercializing and performing therapeutic apheresis, or blood filtering. We generated revenues of approximately $900,200 and $1,277,800 for the years ended June 30, 1999 and 1998, respectively, all of which were earned in the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, we had revenues of $1,840,289, $969,357 and $390,479, respectively, of which $81,593, $731,757 and $390,479, respectively, were derived from sales of the RHEO™ System to OccuLogix, L.P., a related party, which then sold the RHEO™ System to three clinics in Canada, one of which is a related party, RHEO Clinic Inc., a subsidiary of TLC Vision. For the period from July 2002 to December 8, 2004, our only customer was OccuLogix, L.P., a related party. Subsequent to December 8, 2004, OccuLogix, L.P. became wholly owned by us. Our ability to increase our revenues and to earn revenues in the United States is dependent on a number of factors, including: • obtaining FDA approval to market the RHEO™ System in the United States which may require us to conduct a follow-up clinical trial to support our PMA application; • successfully building the infrastructure and manufacturing capacity to market and sell the RHEO™ System; • achieving widespread acceptance of RHEO™ Therapy among physicians and patients; and • agreement of governmental and third-party payors to reimburse for RHEO™ Therapy. We cannot begin commercialization in the United States until we receive FDA approval. Until we have discussions with the FDA, we will not be able to anticipate when, if ever, we will receive FDA approval. Accordingly, at this time, we do not know when we can expect to begin to generate revenues in the United States. If we do not obtain FDA approval and are required to focus our efforts on marketing the RHEO™ System to clinics in Canada, or if we are unable to generate significant revenues in the United States, we may not become profitable, and we may be unable to continue our operations. 33 MIRA-1’s failure to meet its primary efficacy endpoint may impact adversely the business prospects and financial condition generally of our sole customer, Veris. Currently, Veris is our sole customer. The Company’s announcement of February 3, 2006 that MIRA-1 did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint may impact adversely Veris’ business prospects and financial condition generally. A failure of Veris to continue its operations would adversely affect our ability to generate any revenues since, at this time, there is no other commercial provider of RHEO™ Therapy in any jurisdiction in which we have distribution and marketing rights to the RHEO™ System. We have taken a provision for bad debts of $1,049,297 in respect of Veris, of which $518,852 related to revenue reported prior to December 2005 and $530,445 related to goods shipped to it in December 2005 and for which revenue was not recognized. We also reported an inventory loss of $252,071, representing the cost of goods shipped to Veris in December 2005, which we do not anticipate will be returned to us. MIRA-1 did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint, and it is more likely than not that we will be required to conduct a follow-up clinical trial of the RHEO™ System to support our PMA application. We are required to obtain FDA approval to market the RHEO™ System in the United States. To support an application for FDA approval, we conducted, at our own expense, MIRA-1 to evaluate the safety and efficacy of RHEO™ Therapy in humans. MIRA-1 did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint, and it is more likely than not that we will be required to conduct a follow-up clinical trial to support our PMA application. The outcome of another trial would be uncertain. Clinical testing is expensive and can take many years. Failure can occur at any stage of the testing. We may encounter numerous factors during, or as a result of, a new clinical trial that could delay or prevent us from completing it and receiving FDA approval for a number of reasons, including: • we may be unable to obtain the complete number of data sets required by the protocol that will be filed with the FDA in connection with a new clinical trial; • costs of a new clinical trial may be greater than we anticipate; • we, or the regulators, may suspend or terminate such a clinical trial if the participating patients are being exposed to unacceptable health risks; and • negative or inconclusive results may arise, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical testing. We may not receive FDA approval to market the RHEO™ System in the United States. We may not receive FDA approval to market the RHEO™ System in the United States. Obtaining FDA approval is a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is uncertain. We may never receive FDA approval for the RHEO™ System, and, in any event, we expect to experience a delay in receiving approval since, as a result of MIRA-1’s failure to reach its primary efficacy endpoint, it is more likely than not that we will be required to conduct a follow-up clinical trial of the RHEO™ System to support our PMA application. One or more delays in obtaining or failure to obtain FDA approval would delay or prevent the successful commercialization of the RHEO™ System, diminish our competitive advantage and/or defer or decrease our receipt of revenues. Even if we eventually obtain FDA approval, this approval may only be for a limited or narrow class of Dry AMD patients, thereby diminishing the size of the class of prospective patients for whose use the RHEO™ System can be promoted. 34 In addition, changes to the RHEO™ System can require additional FDA approvals. The RHEO™ System currently uses a cellulose acetate Rheofilter which is manufactured by Asahi Medical. We have been informed by Asahi Medical that it intends to discontinue manufacturing the cellulose acetate filter in 2008, and we have been working with Asahi Medical to develop a new polysulfone filter to replace it. We will require FDA approval to replace the cellulose acetate Rheofilter with the new polysulfone Rheofilter which may require the generation and submission of additional clinical data which could delay the timing of the application and increase the cost of obtaining such approval. If we do not receive FDA approval for the new polysulfone Rheofilter or if obtaining the approval takes longer than we expect, we may be unable to market the RHEO™ System. Our purchase commitments may adversely affect our liquidity. We currently have commitments to purchase approximately $19.2 million of OctoNova pumps (based on current exchange rates) within five years after FDA approval, $13.3 million of Rheofilters and Plasmaflo filters over a three-year period beginning six months after FDA approval with respect to North America and $1.2 million of Rheofilters and Plasmaflo filters between 2006 and 2008 with respect to Australia, New Zealand, Colombia, Venezuela and Italy. We expect to fund our purchase commitments with cash generated from operations following FDA approval or, in the event we do not have sufficient cash from operations, other financing sources. Should these sources be insufficient to fund our purchase commitments, our liquidity may be adversely affected. We currently depend on single sources for key components of the RHEO™ System. The loss of any of these sources could delay our clinical trials or prevent or delay commercialization of the RHEO™ System. We currently depend on single sources for the filters and the OctoNova pump used in the RHEO™ System. We have entered into a supply agreement for the filters with Asahi Medical and for the OctoNova pump with Diamed, which designed the OctoNova pump, and MeSys, which manufactures the pumps for Diamed. We currently have commitments to purchase $19.2 million of OctoNova pumps (based on current exchange rates) within five years after FDA approval, $13.3 million of Rheofilters and Plasmaflo filters over a three-year period beginning six months after FDA approval with respect to North America and $1.2 million of Rheofilters and Plasmaflo filters between 2006 and 2008 with respect to Australia, New Zealand, Colombia, Venezuela and Italy. If we fail to meet our minimum purchase requirements under our agreements with Diamed or Asahi Medical, those agreements may be terminated or rendered non-exclusive at the sole discretion of the supplier. If any of these suppliers ceases to supply components to us or does not supply an adequate number of components, our sales and growth could be restricted, potentially materially. If we do not achieve FDA approval and other necessary approvals in certain of the territories for which we have distribution rights by the end of December 2006 (and by the end of December 2010 with respect to others of the territories to which we have distribution rights), Asahi Medical can terminate the supply agreement for the filters and Diamed can terminate the supply agreement for the pumps. In light of MIRA-1’s failure to reach its primary efficacy endpoint, we will not achieve FDA approval and the other necessary approvals by the end of December 2006 and will be discussing the consequences of such failure with Asahi Medical and Diamed. Our agreement with Asahi Medical as it relates to the United States, Canada, Mexico and certain countries in the Caribbean and our agreement with Diamed each have a term ending ten years after the date of FDA approval and is automatically renewable for one-year terms unless terminated upon six months’ notice. In addition, Diamed may terminate its agreement upon the termination of our manufacturing agreement with MeSys, which has a term of three years following FDA approval. We believe that establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these components may not be possible as these suppliers have trade secrets, patents and other intellectual property that may prevent a third party from manufacturing a suitable replacement product. Even if we switch to replacement suppliers and the supplier can manufacture the necessary components without violating any third-party intellectual property rights, we may face additional regulatory delays and the distribution of the RHEO™ System could be interrupted for an extended period of time, which may delay or slow the commercialization of RHEO™ Therapy and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. 35 Our supply agreement with Asahi Medical requires us to transfer the FDA approval of the RHEO™ System to it upon receipt which will limit our control of the FDA approval. In the 2001 supply agreement with Asahi Medical for the filters that are used in the RHEO™ System, we agreed to obtain the FDA approval in the name of Asahi Medical and to maintain that approval. In a subsequent 2003 amendment to that agreement, we agreed to transfer FDA approval to Asahi Medical upon receipt from the FDA. Any clinical data contained in the application for FDA approval continues to belong to us. Asahi Medical will have the right to use the data in any territory where Asahi Medical grants us a distributorship. This agreement also makes us the exclusive distributor of Asahi Medical’s RHEO™ System filters in the United States, Canada, Mexico and certain countries in the Caribbean for a term that expires at the end of the ten-year period following the date of the FDA approval, which exclusivity is automatically renewable for one-year terms unless it is terminated upon six months’ notice. The agreement also provides that Asahi Medical may terminate the exclusivity provision if certain post-FDA approval minimum purchase requirements are not met. This transfer of FDA approval to Asahi Medical may limit our flexibility to make changes in the FDA approval such as the addition of alternate suppliers of RHEO™ System components without Asahi Medical’s consent, or limit our ability to prevent changes to the FDA approval that we might consider detrimental, such as the addition of labeling changes or the substitution of alternate component suppliers. This agreement further makes us the exclusive distributor of such filters in Australia, New Zealand, Colombia and Venezuela and a non-exclusive distributor in Italy for a term that expires on December 31, 2010. Regulatory approvals obtained for the RHEO™ System, if any, in Australia, New Zealand, Colombia, Venezuela or Italy will be held by Asahi Medical. If we or our suppliers fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements to which we and the RHEO™ System are subject, the RHEO™ System could be subject to restrictions or withdrawals from the market and we could be subject to penalties. We, our suppliers and our products are subject to numerous FDA requirements covering the design, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion and export of the RHEO™ System and other matters. Failure to comply with statutes and regulations administered by the FDA could result in, among other things, any of the following actions: • warning letters; • fines and other civil penalties; • unanticipated expenditures; • withdrawal of FDA approval; • delays in approving or refusal to approve the RHEO™ System; • product recall or seizure; • interruption of production; • operating restrictions; • border stops; • injunctions; and • criminal prosecution. 36 We and our suppliers are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. In addition, advertising and promotional materials relating to medical devices are, in certain instances, subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission. We and our suppliers may be required to incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations in the future, and such laws and regulations may materially harm our business. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements, the failure of us or our manufacturers to comply with such requirements or the adoption of new requirements could materially harm our business. We may be unable to commercialize the RHEO™ System successfully in the United States. Even if we successfully obtain FDA approval for the RHEO™ System, our success depends on our ability to market and sell the RHEO™ System. Successful commercialization of the RHEO™ System depends on a number of factors, including: • achieving widespread acceptance of RHEO™ Therapy among physicians and patients; • agreement of governmental and third-party payors to provide reimbursement for RHEO™ Therapy; • maintaining our relationships with our single source suppliers; • obtaining sufficient quantities of components for the RHEO™ System; • establishing adequate sales and marketing capabilities; • obtaining sufficient facility space; • our ability to identify and sell the RHEO™ System to key multi-facility health care providers as well as to private eye care professional practices; • our ability to successfully sell the RHEO™ System at our projected selling price; • whether there are adverse side effects or unfavorable publicity concerning the RHEO™ System; and • whether there is competition for the RHEO™ System from new or existing products, which may prove to be safer, more efficacious or more cost-effective than the RHEO™ System. RHEO™ Therapy is based on a model that has not achieved widespread acceptance and may be proven incorrect. If we are unsuccessful in achieving widespread acceptance of RHEO™ Therapy among physicians and patients, our business may not succeed. AMD is not a well understood disease and its underlying cause is not known. RHEO™ Therapy is based on a disease model that has not achieved widespread acceptance with eye care professionals. Unlike traditional therapeutic treatments for eye diseases, RHEO™ Therapy is a systemic approach for the treatment of Dry AMD, rather than a localized approach. Our success is dependent upon achieving widespread acceptance of RHEO™ Therapy among ophthalmologists and optometrists. Eye care professionals and health care service providers may not be willing to integrate RHEO™ Therapy into their workflow. In addition, because RHEO™ Therapy can be performed by health care providers other than eye care professionals, eye care professionals may be reluctant to endorse RHEO™ Therapy. The fact that MIRA-1 did not meet its primary efficacy endpoint may strengthen opposition to RHEO™ Therapy or impede its acceptance. 37 Even if we are successful in achieving widespread acceptance of RHEO™ Therapy among physicians, we may be unable to achieve widespread acceptance among potential patients. An initial course of RHEO™ Therapy is time consuming, requiring eight procedures over a 10- to 12-week period, with each procedure lasting between two and four hours. Some patients may be reluctant to undergo RHEO™ Therapy because of the time commitment. In addition, RHEO™ Therapy providers may not be easily accessible to all patients and some patients may be unwilling or unable to travel to receive RHEO™ Therapy. If we are unable to achieve widespread acceptance, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. In August 1997, our predecessor opened its sole client facility, the Rheotherapy Center, in Tampa, Florida to perform therapeutic apheresis commercially. In 1999, the FDA’s Office of Compliance issued a directive notifying our predecessor that further conducting of therapeutic apheresis would need to be conducted under the authority of an Investigational Device Exemption filed with the FDA. In a related action, our predecessor, on behalf of one of our founders, Dr. Richard C. Davis, made a payment in the amount of $10,000 to cover legal expenses incurred by the Florida Board of Medicine in prosecuting our predecessor’s unauthorized advertising of new medical therapies. Our predecessor closed the Rheotherapy Center in 1999 and we have since received an Investigational Device Exemption and subsequently focused our resources on completing MIRA-1 in order to obtain FDA approval of the RHEO™ System. Dr. Davis was our Chief Executive Officer from January to June 2003 and was our Chief Science Officer from July 2003 to April 2004 and since then has served as a consultant to us. Dr. Davis is also a former director of ours. We believe that the activities of the Rheotherapy Center engendered opposition in certain segments of the eye care community to RHEO™ Therapy and if this opposition continues, acceptance of RHEO™ Therapy among eye care professionals and patients may be difficult to achieve. If RHEO™ Therapy is not reimbursed by governmental and other third-party payors, or is only reimbursed on a limited basis, our business may not succeed. Undergoing RHEO™ Therapy is expensive, with an initial course of treatment expected to initially cost between $16,000 and $25,600 in the United States. Continuing efforts of governmental and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care could negatively affect the sale of the RHEO™ System. Our ability to commercialize the RHEO™ System successfully will depend in substantial part on favorable determinations by governmental payors, most prominently Medicare, private health insurers and state-funded health care coverage programs. Without the establishment of timely, favorable coverage and reimbursement policies, we may be unable to set or maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. Other significant insurance coverage limitations, such as narrow restrictions on patient coverage criteria and restrictions on treatment settings in which RHEO™ Therapy is covered, may also limit our potential revenues. Our patents may not be valid and we may not be able to obtain and enforce patents to protect our proprietary rights from use by competitors. Our owned and licensed patents may not be valid and we may not be able to obtain and enforce patents and to maintain trade secret protection for our technology. The extent to which we are unable to do so could materially harm our business. We have applied for and will continue to apply for patents for certain processes used in the RHEO™ System. Such applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, and any patents now held or that may be issued may not provide us with adequate protection from competition. In addition, we expect that we will seek to have the patent licensed to us re-issued at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and we believe that a more detailed claim set will be issued. The timing of the submission of our re-issuance application has not yet been determined and will depend, to some degree, on our future estimate of when we will be in a position to begin commercializing the RHEO™ System in the United States. The application for re-issuance of this patent may result in the patent being rejected or no claims of commercial value being issued or it may result in competitors acquiring intervening rights. Furthermore, it is possible that patents issued or licensed to us may be challenged successfully. In that event, if we have a preferred competitive position because of such patents, any preferred position held by us would be lost. If we are unable to secure or to continue to maintain a preferred position, the components of the RHEO™ System could become subject to competition from the sale of generic products. 38 Patents issued or licensed to us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. The cost of enforcing our patent rights against infringers, if such enforcement is required, could be significant, and the time demands could interfere with our normal operations. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical technology industries. We may become a party to patent litigation and other proceedings. The cost to us of any patent litigation, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation more effectively than we can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Litigation may also absorb significant management time. Unpatented trade secrets, improvements, confidential know-how and continuing technological innovation are important to our scientific and commercial success. Although we attempt to and will continue to attempt to protect our proprietary information through reliance on trade secret laws and the use of confidentiality agreements with our corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants and other appropriate means, these measures may not effectively prevent disclosure of our proprietary information, and, in any event, others may develop independently, or obtain access to, the same or similar information. Certain of our patent rights are licensed to us by third parties. If we fail to comply with the terms of these license agreements, our rights to those patents may be terminated, and we will be unable to conduct our business. Patents of other companies could require us to stop using or pay to use required technology. It is possible that a court may find us to be infringing upon validly issued patents of third parties. In that event, in addition to the cost of defending the underlying suit for infringement, we may have to pay license fees and/or damages and we may be enjoined from conducting certain activities. Obtaining licenses under third-party patents can be costly, and such licenses may not be available at all. Under such circumstances, we may need to materially alter our products or processes and we may be unable to do so successfully. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. While our management team has some experience in marketing medical technology, we do not have a sales organization and have limited experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of ophthalmic therapy products. In order to commercialize RHEO™ Therapy, we must develop our sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with a third party to perform these functions. If and when marketing of the RHEO™ System is eventually approved by the FDA, our plan will be to establish our own sales force to market the RHEO™ System in the United States. Developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming and we may not be able to develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, we may not be able to generate significant revenue and may not become profitable. 39 Our suppliers may not have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to support our commercialization plans. Our success requires that our suppliers have adequate manufacturing capacity and inventory in order to facilitate a rapid rollout of the RHEO™ System. We have been informed by Asahi Medical that the current Rheofilter being used in the RHEO™ System will be discontinued in 2008 and that, even if it is not discontinued, Asahi Medical would not be able to produce enough of the current cellulose acetate Rheofilter to meet our anticipated demand. Although we have been working with Asahi Medical to develop a new polysulfone filter that we believe Asahi Medical will be able to manufacture in larger quantities and at a lower cost to us, there can be no assurance that we and Asahi Medical will be successful in these efforts. Even if we are able to develop a new filter, we may not be able to obtain FDA approval for the new filter and the new filter may not be manufactured at a lower cost to us. If we are unable to obtain FDA approval for, or the necessary quantities of, this new filter, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. We had planned to use between $9.5 million and $10.5 million of the net proceeds of our IPO to stockpile an inventory of filters from Asahi Medical and, to date, have used $4.8 million to do so. We have been accumulating inventory in advance of FDA approval in order to maximize the number of filters available to us due to manufacturing constraints on the number of cellulose acetate filters that Asahi Medical can produce. However, it is not clear when we will be in a position to commercially market the RHEO™ System in the United States, if ever. Each filter has a shelf life of approximately three years. It is possible that some or all of these filters will expire before they are used. Moreover, holding inventory in this manner will decrease our short term liquidity. Our ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize the RHEO™ System depends, in large part, on our ability to have components manufactured at a competitive cost and in accordance with FDA and other regulatory requirements. We do not control the manufacturing processes of our suppliers. If current manufacturing processes are modified, or the source or location of our product supply is changed, voluntarily or involuntarily, the FDA will require us to demonstrate that the material produced from the modified or new process or facility is equivalent to the material used in the clinical trials or products previously approved. Any such modifications to the manufacturing process or supply may not achieve or maintain compliance with the applicable regulatory requirements. In many cases, prior approval by regulatory authorities may be required before any changes can be made, which may adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon our ability to sell to key multi-facility health care providers as well as private eye care professional practices. In order to facilitate a rapid rollout of the RHEO™ System if and when we receive FDA approval, we will need to establish relationships with key organized groups of multi-facility health care service providers, including hospitals, dialysis clinics and ambulatory surgery centers, as well as private practices. We may be unsuccessful in establishing these relationships, which could limit our ability to commercialize the RHEO™ System. We anticipate that RHEO™ Therapy will be prescribed by physicians and administered by nurses, and therefore our service provider customers will need the support of an adequate supply of trained nurses. Training nurses to administer RHEO™ Therapy may be costly, and our customers may experience shortages of nurses from time to time. If there is a shortage of trained nurses to work in our customers’ facilities, our commercialization of RHEO™ Therapy may be unsuccessful. 40 RHEO™ Therapy may produce adverse side effects in patients that prevent its adoption or that necessitate withdrawal from the market. RHEO™ Therapy may produce unexpected side effects not previously observed during clinical trials. These undesirable and unintended side effects in patients may prevent or limit its commercial adoption and use. Side effects that have been observed in MIRA-1 were all temporary and generally mild and included temporary drops in blood pressure, abnormal heart rate, nausea, chills and localized bleeding, pain, numbness and swelling in the area of the arms where the needles were inserted. Even after approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, the RHEO™ System may later be found to produce adverse side effects that prevent widespread use or necessitate withdrawal from the market. The manifestation of such side effects could cause our business to suffer. In some cases, regulatory authorities may require additional disclosure to patients that could add warnings or restrict usage based on unexpected side effects seen after marketing a medical treatment. We may face future product liability claims that may result from the use of our products. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of therapeutic products entails significant inherent risks of allegations of product liability. Our use of such products in clinical trials and our sale of the RHEO™ System may expose us to liability claims. These claims might be made directly by patients, health care providers or others selling the RHEO™ System. We carry clinical trials and product liability insurance to cover certain claims that could arise during MIRA-1 or during the commercial use of RHEO™ Therapy. We currently maintain clinical trials and product liability insurance with coverage limits of $2,000,000 in the aggregate annually. Such coverage, and any coverage obtained in the future, may be inadequate to protect us in the event of a successful product liability claim, and we may not be able to increase the amount of such insurance coverage or even renew it. A successful product liability claim could materially harm our business. In addition, substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and divert significant resources. In the medium or long term, we will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing our growth. In order to commercialize the RHEO™ System, we will need to expand our employee base for management of operational, sales and marketing, financial and other resources. It is not clear when we will be able to commercially launch the RHEO™ System, if ever. Future growth will impose significant additional responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize the RHEO™ System and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to: • integrate additional management, administrative, distribution and sales and marketing personnel; • develop our administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls; and • hire and train additional qualified personnel. We may not be able to accomplish these tasks, and our failure to accomplish any of them could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability. We may face competition and may not be successful in addressing it. The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical technology industries are characterized by rapidly changing technology and intense competition. AMD is not a well-understood disease and researchers are continuing to investigate different theories of the cause of AMD. If the cause of AMD is determined, competitors could potentially develop a treatment for Dry AMD that would replace RHEO™ Therapy. In addition, competitors may develop alternative treatments for Dry AMD that prove to be superior to, or more cost-effective than, RHEO™ Therapy. Some of these competitors may include companies which have access to financial, technical and marketing resources significantly greater than ours and substantially greater experience in developing, manufacturing and distributing products, conducting preclinical and clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approvals. 41 We are aware of a number of companies which have developed or are in the process of developing treatments for Wet AMD, including Eyetech Pharmaceuticals, Inc./Pfizer Inc., Genentech, Inc./Novartis Ophthalmics, Alcon Laboratories, Inc., Iridex Corporation, Genaera Corporation, QLT, Inc. and GenVec, Inc. Some of these treatments are in late-stage clinical development or have been approved by the FDA. Some of these companies may develop new treatments for Dry AMD or may develop modifications to their treatments for Wet AMD that may be effective for Dry AMD as well. We are aware that Acuity Medical, Inc. is pursuing an electrical stimulation technology to treat Dry AMD. In addition, other companies also may be involved in competitive activities of which we are not aware. We may be unable to attract and retain key personnel which may adversely affect our business. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our executive officers and scientific personnel. Many of our key responsibilities have been assigned to a relatively small number of individuals. We will be required to hire eyecare specialists as well as personnel with skill sets in apheresis, nursing, training, equipment maintenance, finance, distribution, logistics, warehousing, sales and service to meet our personnel needs. There is competition for qualified personnel, and the failure to secure the services of key personnel or loss of services of key personnel could adversely affect our business. The additional uncertainty regarding our business prospects that has been created by MIRA-1’s failure to reach its primary efficacy endpoint may impede our ability to attract and retain key personnel. We currently expect that there will be some downsizing of our workforce and restructuring of our operations in view of the anticipated delay in the timing of receipt of FDA approval, if any, and the consequent delay in the commercialization of the RHEO™ System in the United States. This may impede our ability to fulfill certain functions which, in turn, may adversely affect our business. For as long as TLC Vision owns a substantial portion of our common stock, our other stockholders may be effectively unable to affect the outcome of stockholder voting. TLC Vision beneficially owns approximately 51.0% of our outstanding common stock, or 46.5% on a fully diluted basis. Accordingly, TLC Vision on its own could possess an effective controlling vote on matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock. While it owns a substantial portion of our common stock, TLC Vision will effectively control decisions with respect to: • our business direction and policies, including the election and removal of our directors; • mergers or other business combinations involving us; • the acquisition or disposition of assets by us; • our financing; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. 42 Furthermore, TLC Vision may be able to cause or prevent a change of control of the Company, and this concentration of ownership may have the effect of discouraging others from pursuing transactions involving a potential change of control of the Company, in either case regardless of whether a premium is offered over then-current market prices. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and TLC Vision, which has three directors on our board and for which our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman serves as Chairman. Our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer will also devote a portion of his time to TLC Vision, which may divert his attention from our business and operations. TLC Vision beneficially owns approximately 51.0% of our outstanding common stock, or 46.5% on a fully diluted basis. Our directors, Elias Vamvakas, Thomas Davidson and Richard Lindstrom, are also directors of TLC Vision. Mr. Vamvakas beneficially owns 3,384,989 common shares of TLC Vision, representing approximately 4.99% of TLC Vision’s outstanding shares. Mr. Davidson beneficially owns 34,827 common shares of TLC Vision, representing approximately 0.05% of TLC Vision’s outstanding shares, and Dr. Lindstrom does not beneficially own any common shares of TLC Vision. Because Messrs. Vamvakas and Davidson and Dr. Lindstrom are directors of TLC Vision, a conflict of interest could arise. Conflicts may arise between TLC Vision and us as a result of our ongoing agreements. We may not be able to resolve all potential conflicts with TLC Vision, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. In addition, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Vamvakas, also serves as Chairman of TLC Vision and, therefore, devotes a portion of his time to matters other than our business and operations. We believe that Mr. Vamvakas devotes approximately 20% of his time, on average, to TLC’s operations, which may divert his attention from our business operations and which may adversely affect our business. We have entered into a number of related party transactions with suppliers, creditors, stockholders, officers and other parties, each of which may have interests which conflict with those of our public stockholders. We have entered into several related party transactions with our suppliers, creditors, stockholders, officers and other parties, each of which may have interests which conflict with those of our public stockholders. Certain of our directors and management team members have been with us for only a short time. John Caloz, our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, Nozhat Choudry, our Vice President, Clinical Research, and Stephen Parks, our Vice President, Sales, and our directors, Adrienne Graves and Gilbert Omenn, have all served as members of our management team for less than one year. Thomas P. Reeves, our President and Chief Operating Officer, Stephen Kilmer, our Vice President, Corporate Affairs, Julie Fotheringham, our Vice President, Marketing, and our directors, Thomas Davidson, Jay Holmes and Richard Lindstrom, have all served as members of our management team for less than two years. This poses a number of risks, including the risk that these persons may: • have limited familiarity with our past practices; • lack experience in communicating effectively within the team and with other employees; • lack settled areas of responsibility; and • lack an established track record in managing our business strategy, including clinical trials. 43 ITEM 