ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this report, you should carefully consider the following factors when evaluating U.S. Shipping Partners L.P.: Risks Inherent in Our Business We may not have sufficient available cash to enable us to pay the minimum quarterly distribution following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our general partner. We may not have sufficient available cash each quarter to pay the minimum quarterly distribution. The amount of cash we can distribute on our common units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things: •the level of consumption of refined petroleum, petrochemical and chemical products in the markets in which we operate; •the prices we obtain for our services; •the level of demand for our vessels, •the level of our operating costs, including payments to our general partner; •delays in the delivery of newbuilds and the resulting delay in receipt of revenue from those vessels; •the effect of governmental regulations and maritime self-regulatory organization standards on the conduct of our business; •the level of unscheduled off-hire days and the timing of, and number of days required for, scheduled drydockings of our vessels; and •prevailing economic and competitive conditions. In addition, the actual amount of cash we will have available for distribution each quarter will depend on other factors such as: •the level of capital expenditures we make, including for acquisitions, drydockings for repairs, repurposing or retrofitting of vessels to comply with OPA 90, newbuildings, and compliance with new regulations; •the restrictions contained in our debt instruments and our debt service requirements; •fluctuations in our working capital needs; •our ability to make working capital or other borrowings, including borrowings to pay distributions to unitholders; and •the amount of reserves, including reserves for future capital expenditures and other matters, established by our general partner. 31 The agreements governing our indebtedness prohibit us from paying distributions following a default, including without limitation any failure to satisfy the financial covenants in our credit agreement. In addition, the indenture under which our senior notes were issued provides that whenever our fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the indenture) is less than 1.75 to 1 for the last year, we cannot pay distributions that in aggregate during any period when our fixed charge coverage ratio is less than 1.75 to 1 an amount in excess of $50.0 million plus the proceeds of certain equity issuances. The minimum quarterly distributions we have historically paid on our common units (excluding our subordinated and general partner units) are $5.1 million. Accordingly, we will be prohibited by the indenture from paying distributions except out of proceeds of certain equity issuances if our fixed charge coverage ratio is less that 1.75 to 1 for more than nine quarters (five quarters if the minimum quarterly distributions on our subordinated and general partner units are also paid). If the Joint Venture elects not to construct the remaining four tankers, Product Carriers will be obligated to arrange financing for the construction of the tankers or assign the contract to a third party. If we provide capital to Product Carriers for such purpose, this will limit the cash we have available to make quarterly distributions on the units. Our ability to provide capital to Product Carriers and, therefore, the Joint Venture will be limited to an extent by our debt agreements. The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our liquidity and cash flow and not solely on profitability. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily on our liquidity and cash flow, including cash reserves and working capital or other borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Our net income per unit for each of 2007, 2006 and 2005 was less than the annual distribution of $1.80 per unit, and we did not pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our subordinated and general partner units for the fourth quarter of 2007 in order to increase cash available for our operations and the payment of distributions on the common units in 2008. The amount of available cash we need to pay the minimum quarterly distribution for four quarters in 2008 on the currently outstanding common units is approximately $20.4 million, and is $33.5 million when the minimum quarterly distribution is paid on the currently outstanding subordinated and general partner units. Our liquidity has been, and may continue to be, affected by several factors, some of which are outside our control, including: •Cost overruns on the construction of the ATB Freeport of approximately $24.4 million from the amount estimated at the time of the August 2006 refinancing resulted in additional borrowings under our credit facility, thereby reducing availability under the credit facility to meet our ongoing liquidity requirements, and increased interest expense. •The potential for reduced cash flows and operating margins from our ITB fleet due to the expiration of the Hess support agreement in September 2007, which provided us minimum rates on our vessels, reduced demand for our ITBs due to an increasing supply of vessels, lower rates in the spot market due to an increasing number of vessels competing in that market and higher operating expenses of our ITBs due to their age. •Increased vessel operating expenses due to new collective bargaining agreements with the two maritime unions that cover all of our seagoing personnel. The two agreements, which follow agreements reached by other vessel operators in our industry, are expected to increase vessel personnel expenses by approximately $3.0 million in 2008 when compared to the 2007 levels under the expired contracts. 32 To the extent the foregoing or other factors negatively impact our future operating results, our available cash will be adversely affected. Our inability to adequately address any liquidity issues that may arise in the future could impact our ability to pay the minimum quarterly distribution in full. As a result of the expiration of the Hess support agreement, we are no longer assured minimum charter rates on our ITBs, and the employment of our ITBs is now subject to market conditions. In connection with our purchase of six ITB units from Hess in September 2002, Hess agreed that, until September 13, 2007, if the contract rate for a charter of any of the vessels we acquired was less than the rate specified in our support agreement with Hess, Hess would, subject to specified limited exceptions, pay us the difference between the two rates. In the event the charter rates we received at any time during the term of the agreement on the ITB units exceeded the Hess support rate, we were required to pay such excess amounts to Hess until we had repaid Hess for all support payments previously made by Hess to us. During 2004 and 2005 Hess made net support payments to us aggregating $4.0 million and $1.0 million, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2006 and the period from January 1, 2007 through September 13, 2007, we made net support payments to Hess aggregating $0.5 million and $3.3 million, respectively. The aggregate net amount of all support payments made by Hess to us during the term of the agreement was $8.6 million. Our ITB fleet is currently our largest source of revenue and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"). However, the expiration of the Hess Support Agreement in September 2007, under which we were assured minimum charter rates for our ITB fleet, the fact that at least half of our ITBs are expected to operate in the spot market rather than under long-term charters, increased volatility in rates, and the likelihood of lower rates in the spot market due to an increasing supply of vessels, and higher operating expenses of our ITBs due to their age and the new union contracts will negatively impact the operating income and EBITDA provided by our ITBs over the next several years, and could adversely affect our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants in our debt agreements. As a result of the expiration of the Hess support agreement, we are now subject entirely to market conditions for future long-term charters and to rates that we can obtain in the spot market. If future long-term charter rates decline or if current or future spot rates decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, and our cash available for distribution to unitholders and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. We lack extended historical financial and operational data without the benefit of the Hess support agreement, making it more difficult for an investor to evaluate our business, forecast our future revenues and other operating results and assess the merits and risks of an investment in our common units. This lack of information will increase the risk of your investment. Our business would be adversely affected if we failed to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade, or if those provisions were modified or repealed. We are subject to the Jones Act and other federal laws that restrict maritime transportation between points in the United States to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the United States, at least 75% owned and operated by U.S. citizens and manned by U.S. crews. Compliance with the Jones Act increases our operating costs. We are responsible for monitoring the ownership of our common units and other partnership interests to ensure our compliance with the Jones Act. If we do not comply with these restrictions, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in U.S. coastwise trade, and under certain circumstances we would be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved foreign transfer, resulting in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of the vessels 33 During the past several years, interest groups have lobbied Congress to modify or repeal the Jones Act to facilitate foreign flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S. flag vessels under the Jones Act and cargo preference laws. Foreign vessels generally have lower construction costs and generally operate at significantly lower costs than we do in the U.S. markets, which would likely result in reduced charter rates. We believe that continued efforts will be made to modify or repeal the Jones Act and cargo preference laws currently benefiting U.S. flag vessels. If these efforts are successful, it could result in significantly increased competition and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay distributions on the common units and principal of and interest on, our indebtedness. As a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, a short-term waiver, which expired on October 24, 2005, was granted by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, lifting the Jones Act restriction on foreign-flag carriers, allowing these carriers to replace transporting needs arising from out-of- service pipelines. We cannot assure that future waivers will not be granted or that any such waivers will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Because we must make substantial expenditures to comply with mandatory drydocking requirements for our fleet, and because these expenditures may be higher than we currently anticipate, we may not have sufficient available cash to pay the minimum quarterly distribution in full. Both domestic (U.S. Coast Guard) and international (International Maritime Organization) regulatory bodies require that our vessels be drydocked for inspection and maintenance twice every five years and will require that any newly constructed product tankers be drydocked twice every five years. To date our ITBs have been able to participate in the United States Coast Guard Underwater Inspection In Lieu of Drydock ("UWILD") Program, which allows our ITBs to be drydocked once every five years, with a mid-period underwater survey in lieu of a drydock. We were recently advised by the U.S. Coast Guard that U.S. flagged non-double hulled tank vessels that are over 15 years in age and trade internationally will not, consistent with International Maritime Organization regulations, be eligible to participate in the UWILD Program. However, the U.S. Coast Guard has advised us that it will consider for participation in the UWILD Program non-double hulled tank vessels that are over 15 years of age but only trade domestically. To the extent we are unable to obtain such waivers regarding the drydocking of our ITB units, we could experience additional off-hire days, which will reduce our revenue. In addition, vessels may have to be drydocked in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage. We estimate that future drydockings of ITBs will cost approximately $6.0 million per vessel. We estimate drydocking of the parcel and product tankers will cost approximately $3.5 million to $6.0 million per vessel, drydocking of the ATB units will initially cost approximately $1.0 million to $2.0 million per vessel and drydocking of the new tankers, if acquired by us from the Joint Venture, will cost approximately $3.5 million to $4.0 million per vessel. When drydocked, each of our ITB units will be out of service for approximately 50 to 70 days, each of our parcel tankers and the Houston will be out of service for approximately 35 to 60 days, each of our ATB units will be out of service approximately 25 days and each of our new tankers will be out of service for approximately 35 to 40 days. If we are required to conduct a second drydock for our ITBs in each five year period rather than rely on an underwater survey, we estimate that our ITBs will be out of service for approximately 14 to 20 days and the second drydock will cost approximately $1.0 million to $2.0 million. Even if our ITBs continue to participate in the UWILD Program, we will need to conduct an enhanced survey, which will result in the vessel being off-hire, and therefore not earning any revenue, for an additional 12 days each time a survey is conducted, at a cost of $0.5 million. The longer out of service period and increased expense of a drydocking as compared to the time required for and the cost of conducting an underwater survey could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. At the time we drydock these vessels, the actual cost of drydocking may be higher due to inflation and other factors. In addition, vessels in drydock will not generate any income, which will reduce our 34 revenue and cash available to make distributions on our units and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. Because the required drydocks for the Sea Venture in 2011 and the ITB units in 2010 (ITB Jacksonville and ITB New York), 2011 (ITB Groton and ITB Mobile) and 2012 (ITB Baltimore and ITB Philadelphia) occur near their respective mandatory phase-out dates under OPA 90, it may not be economical for us to perform the drydocks on one or more of those vessels. In such event, if the vessel taken out of service is not replaced, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions on our units and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. We will need to acquire OPA 90 compliant vessels in order to maintain a significant presence in the domestic coastwise transportation of petroleum products, which will be expensive, and may cause us to reduce the amount of our cash distributions or prevent us from raising the amount of our cash distributions. Under OPA 90, we will be required to phase-out the use of substantially all our currently operated vessels to carry petroleum-based products beginning in 2012 unless we retrofit these vessels. The phase-out dates for these vessels are: Groton and Jacksonville (2012), Baltimore, Charleston, Chemical Pioneer, Sea Venture and New York (2013) and Mobile and Philadelphia (2014). As a result of these requirements, these vessels will be prohibited from transporting petroleum and petroleum-based products in U.S. waters after these dates unless they are retrofitted to comply with OPA 90. As we currently do not believe it will be economically viable to retrofit our ITBs to become OPA 90 compliant, the only option to maintain a significant market presence in the domestic coastwise transportation of petroleum products is to acquire OPA 90 compliant vessels. As part of our OPA 90 compliance program, we entered into a contract with NASSCO for the construction of nine 49,000 deadweight tons ("dwt") double-hulled tankers, the first five of which are being financed through the Joint Venture. If the Joint Venture does not elect to construct the four additional tankers, we will be obligated to arrange financing for the construction of the tankers or assign the contract to a third party, and if we need to fund such construction this will limit the cash we have available to make distributions on our units and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. Our ability to fund construction of these four tankers will be limited to an extent by our debt agreements. Although we have the right to purchase the tankers being constructed by the Joint Venture, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the funds necessary to purchase any of such vessels. Our inability to purchase tankers from the Joint Venture, particularly in light of the fact that it may not be economically viable to retrofit our ITBs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay distributions on our units and to pay interest on, and the principal of, our indebtedness. Although the Chemical Pioneer is double-hulled, it is not OPA 90 compliant; however, we believe that only a minor modification, which is estimated to cost approximately $0.5 million, must be made by 2013 to bring the Chemical Pioneer into compliance with OPA 90. Although the Charleston is not OPA 90 compliant, our intent is to seek a waiver allowing us to carry refined petroleum products in the vessel's center tanks and non-petroleum-based products in the other tanks rather than retrofit the vessel. If the waiver is not obtained, or under certain circumstances even if the waiver is obtained, we may not be able to transport a sufficient quantity of products that generate qualifying income, in which event we would be required to place the Charleston in a corporate subsidiary to avoid generating too much non-qualifying income. A corporate subsidiary will be subject to corporate-level tax, which will reduce the cash available to make distributions on our units and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. The Sea Venture is not OPA 90 compliant and we currently intend to operate the Sea Venture in the chemical trade beyond its OPA 90 phase out date in September 2013. The Sea Venture will operate in a subsidiary taxed as a corporation commencing in the first quarter of 2008. 35 Our general partner is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from basic surplus each quarter, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. In addition, the amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures our general partner is required to deduct from basic surplus each quarter is based on our current estimates and could increase in the future. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from basic surplus each quarter estimated maintenance capital expenditures as opposed to actual maintenance capital expenditures in order to reduce disparities in basic surplus caused by fluctuating maintenance capital expenditures, such as retrofitting or drydocking. Our annual estimated maintenance capital expenditures for purposes of calculating basic surplus was $20.9 million in 2007. This amount is based on our current estimates of the amounts of expenditures we will be required to make in the future, which we believe to be reasonable. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from basic surplus is subject to review and change by the board of directors of our general partner at least once a year, with any change approved by the conflicts committee. In years when estimated maintenance capital expenditures are higher than actual maintenance capital expenditures, the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders will be lower than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted from basic surplus. If our general partner underestimates the appropriate level of estimated maintenance capital expenditures, we may have less cash available for distribution in future periods when actual capital expenditures exceed our previous estimates. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel and may increase due to changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards. Capital expenditures and other costs necessary to operate and maintain our vessels tend to increase with the age of the vessel. Accordingly, it is likely that the operating costs of our older vessels will increase. In addition, changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards, as well as compliance with standards imposed by maritime self-regulatory organizations and customer requirements or competition, may require us to make additional expenditures. For example, if the U.S. Coast Guard or the American Bureau of Shipping, an independent classification society that inspects the hull and machinery of commercial ships to assess compliance with minimum criteria as set by U.S. and international regulations, enacts new standards, we may be required to make significant expenditures for alterations or the addition of new equipment. In order to satisfy any such requirement, we may be required to take our vessels out of service for extended periods of time, with corresponding losses of revenues. In the future, market conditions, including customer requirements, may not justify these expenditures or enable us to operate our older vessels profitably during the remainder of their economic lives. If we are unable to fund our capital expenditures, we may not be able to continue to operate some of our vessels, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and our ability to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our units and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. We must make substantial capital expenditures to maintain the operating capacity of our fleet. These capital expenditures include expenditures for drydocking our vessels, modifying our vessels and acquiring new vessels to replace existing vessels as they reach the end of their useful lives. In order to fund our capital expenditures including, without limitation, our planned purchase of the vessels from the Joint Venture and the construction of the four additional vessels if the Joint Venture elects not to construct the additional vessels, we may be required to incur borrowings, enter into sale/leaseback transactions or raise capital through the sale of debt or equity securities. Our ability to access the capital markets for future offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing, the nature of the employment of the vessel and offering as well as by adverse market 36 conditions resulting from, among other things, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Our failure to obtain the funds for necessary future capital expenditures would limit our ability to continue to operate some of our vessels or construct or purchase new vessels and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, our ability to make distributions on our units and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness and our estimated return from our investment in the Joint Venture. Even if we are successful in obtaining necessary funds, the terms of such financing could limit our ability to pay cash distributions. In addition, issuing additional units will dilute your ownership interest in us and increase the amount of cash necessary to make minimum quarterly distributions on our units. Incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to make cash distributions. Our failure to obtain the funds necessary to purchase the vessels constructed by the Joint Venture would limit our ability to continue to operate our business as currently conducted. If we are unable to finance the purchase of the tankers from the Joint Venture, our ability to carry products that generate qualifying income will be substantially reduced, which will have a material adverse effect on our cash available to pay distributions on our units. A decline in demand for refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products, or decreases in U.S. refining activity, particularly in the coastal regions of the United States, or a decrease in the cost of importing refined petroleum products, could cause demand for U.S. flag tank vessel capacity and charter rates and vessel values to decline, which would decrease our revenues, our ability to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our units and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness and our estimated return from our investment in the Joint Venture. The nature, timing and degree of changes in U.S. flag shipping industry conditions are subject to market forces that have proven to be unpredictable and may adversely affect the values of our vessels and may result in significant fluctuations in the amount of charter hire we earn, which could result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly results. Charter rates and vessel values may fluctuate over time due to changes in the demand for U.S. flag product carriers and barges. Charter rates will affect the amount of cash available to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. Because our vessels constitute a major component of the assets securing our indebtedness, a decrease in vessel value could adversely affect our ability to borrow. The demand for U.S. flag tank vessel capacity is influenced by the demand for refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products and other factors including: •global and regional economic and political conditions; •developments in international trade; •changes in seaborne and other transportation patterns, including changes in the distances that cargoes are transported; •environmental concerns; •availability and cost of alternative methods of transportation of products; and •in the case of tank vessels transporting refined petroleum products, competition from alternative sources of energy, such as natural gas, and alternate transportation methods. Any of these factors could adversely affect the demand for U.S. flag tank vessel capacity and charter rates. Any decrease in demand for tank vessel capacity or decrease in charter rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, our ability to make distributions on our units and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness and our estimated return from our investment in the Joint Venture. 37 Additionally, the demand for our services is heavily influenced by the level of refinery capacity in the United States, particularly in the Gulf Coast region. Any decline in refining capacity on the Gulf Coast, even on a temporary basis, may significantly reduce the demand for waterborne movements of refined petroleum products. For example, following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005, movements of refined petroleum products from the Gulf Coast were significantly curtailed in 2005 and 2006, with repairs to hurricane—damaged Gulf Coast refineries being completed in late 2006. While the Energy Information Administration of the U.S. Department of Energy (EIA) has estimated that incremental capacity expansions will increase the capacity of Gulf Coast refineries by 1.6 million barrels per day (bpd) by 2016, it is possible that some or all of the proposed refinery expansions may be delayed or not completed. While we expect that these refinery expansions will increase demand for waterborne transportation of refined petroleum products if refining capacity is not expanded or decreases from current levels demand for our vessels could decrease, which could affect our ability to grow our fleet, revenues and cash available to make distributions on our units and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. The demand for U.S. flag tank vessel capacity is influenced by the cost of importing refined petroleum products. Historically, charter rates for vessels qualified to participate in the coastwise trade under the Jones Act have been higher than charter rates for foreign flag vessels because of the higher construction and operating costs of U.S. flag vessels due to the Jones Act requirements that such vessels must be built in the United States and manned by U.S. crews. Therefore, it has historically been cheaper for certain areas of the United States, such as the northeastern United States, to import refined petroleum products than to obtain them from U.S. refineries. International shipping rates can influence the amount of refined petroleum products imported into the United States. If the cost of foreign shipping of imported refined petroleum products, which is currently at historically high levels, decreases, charter rates for foreign flag vessels may decline, making it cheaper to import refined petroleum products to other regions of the East Coast and the West Coast to meet demand. If this were to occur, demand for our oil product vessels and charter rates could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, our ability to make cash distributions on our units and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness and our estimated return from our investment in the Joint Venture. Marine transportation has inherent operating risks, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover our losses. Our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of events such as: •marine disasters; •bad weather; •mechanical failures; •grounding, fire, explosions and collisions; •human error; and •war and terrorism. All of these hazards can result in death or injury to persons, loss of property, environmental damages, delays or rerouting. If one of our vessels were involved in an accident with the potential risk of environmental contamination, the resulting media coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions on our units and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. We carry insurance to protect against most of the accident-related risks involved in the conduct of our business. Nonetheless, risks may arise against which we are not adequately insured. For example, a 38 catastrophic spill could exceed our insurance coverage and any claims covered by insurance would be subject to deductibles, the aggregate amount of which could be material. In addition, our insurance may be voidable by the insurers as a result of certain of our actions, such as our vessels failing to maintain certification with applicable maritime self-regulatory organizations. Any uninsured or underinsured loss could harm our business and financial condition and have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, we may not be able to procure adequate insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates in the future, and we cannot guarantee that any particular insurance claim will be paid. In the past, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Furthermore, even if insurance coverage is adequate to cover our losses, we may not be able to timely obtain a replacement ship in the event of a loss. We do not carry loss-of-hire insurance, which covers the loss of revenue during extended vessel off-hire periods, such as for unscheduled drydocking due to damage to the vessel from accidents. Accordingly, any loss of a vessel or extended vessel off-hire, due to accident or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions on our units and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. See "—We have a limited number of vessels, and any loss of use of a vessel could adversely affect our results of operations." Because we obtain some of our insurance through protection and indemnity associations, we may be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our own claim records, but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations. We may be subject to calls, or premiums, in amounts based not only on our claim records but also the claim records of all other members of the protection and indemnity associations through which we receive insurance coverage for tort liability, including pollution-related liability. Our payment of these calls could result in significant expenses to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. Decreased utilization of our vessels due to bad weather could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Unpredictable weather patterns tend to disrupt vessel scheduling and supplies of refined petroleum products and our vessels and their cargoes are at risk of being damaged or lost because of bad weather. In addition, adverse weather conditions can cause delays in the delivery of newbuilds and in transporting cargoes. Under our spot voyage charters, we bear the risk of delays due to weather conditions. We estimate our revenues and EBITDA were negatively impacted during 2007 by approximately $2.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively, due to the 61 day unplanned out-of-service period for the ITB Baltimore to repair damages it sustained from Hurricane Dean while in the shipyard after completing its regularly scheduled drydocking. An increase in the price of fuel may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The cost of fuel for our vessels is a significant component of our voyage expenses under our voyage charters and we have recently experienced significant increases in the cost of fuel used in our operations. While we have been able to pass a portion of these increases on to our customers pursuant to the terms of our charters, there can be no assurances that we will be able to pass on any future increases in fuel prices. If fuel prices continue to increase and we are not able to pass such increases on to our customers, our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness may be adversely affected. 39 We rely on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues. The loss of any of these customers could adversely affect our business and operating results. The portion of our revenues attributable to any single customer changes over time, depending on the level of relevant activity by the customer, our ability to meet the customer's needs and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our three largest customers each in 2007, 2006 and 2005, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 47%, 60% and 65% of our consolidated revenues for those periods, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues for those periods. At any given time in the future, the cash reserves of our customers may be diminished or exhausted and we cannot assure you that the customers will be able to make charter payments to us. If our customers are unable to make charter payments to us, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. In addition, we could lose a charterer or the benefits of a time charter because of disagreements with a customer or if a customer exercises specific limited rights to terminate a charter. If we were to lose any of these customers or if any of these customers significantly reduced its use of our services, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our vessels are inspected and audited periodically by our customers, in some cases as a precondition to chartering our vessels. Failure to meet our customers' inspection standards could cause them not to contract with us, and could adversely impact our operating results. We may not be able to renew our long-term contracts when they expire, or obtain contracts for the vessels we have under construction, which could adversely affect our operations. Our three parcel tankers, the Chemical Pioneers, the Charleston and the Sea Venture, as well as the ATB Freeport, primarily transport specialty refined petroleum, petrochemical and commodity chemical products, such as lubricants, paraxylene, caustic soda and glycols, from refineries and petrochemical manufacturing facilities to other manufacturing facilities or distribution terminals. These vessels are currently operating under contracts with several petroleum and petrochemical customers with specified minimum volumes that will, in aggregate, based upon anticipated volumes, account for virtually all of their respective usable capacity for 2008. Anticipated volumes generally exceed contractual minimum amounts as these customers are generally required to ship on our parcel tankers any additional volumes of these products shipped to the ports specified in the contracts. Although these contracts expire at various dates between 2008 and 2014, we anticipate customer renewals of these contracts to continue utilizing a significant percentage of the capacity of the parcel tanker fleet. Additionally, we commenced a long-term charter that accounts for 100% of the usable capacity of the Houston through mid-2011. These arrangements may not be renewed or, if renewed, may not be renewed at similar rates. Although we have obtained a long-term charter for our ATB scheduled to be delivered in August 2008, we have not yet obtained any charters for the ATBs scheduled to be delivered in November 2008 and August 2009. Of our six ITBs, one is currently operating in the spot market, two are operating under consecutive voyage charters that expire in the first half of 2008, and three are operating under time charters that expire in April 2008, May 2008 and December 2008, respectively. As a result of the newbuild vessels entering the market, as well as the age of our vessels, we may not be able to achieve charter rates for and utilization of the ITBs that in combination provide revenue and/or EBITDA that on average are equal to or greater than the revenue and EBITDA achieved under the old contracts and the Hess support agreement. If our revenue and EBITDA on the ITBs are significantly lower than achieved under the old contracts or under the Hess support agreement or if we cannot obtain rates on our newbuild vessels that would provide a reasonable return on these new vessels, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. Additionally, to the extent that vessels are employed in the spot market, rather than pursuant to long-term charters, our cash flows will be less predictable and may be more volatile, and this volatility could adversely affect 40 our business, results of operations and financial condition, our ability to make distributions on our common units, and our ability to pay principal of, and interest on, our debt. Our business has high fixed costs that continue even if our vessels are not in service. In addition, low utilization due to reduced demand or other causes or a significant decrease in charter rates could have a significant negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Industry trends away from long-term charters in favor of shorter-term charters may impact our ability to finance newly built vessels. The long-haul marine transportation services market for refined petroleum products in the U.S. domestic "coastwise" trade appears to be trending away from long-term charters in excess of three years in favor of shorter-term charters. If this trend continues, it will become increasingly difficult for us to finance the construction and purchase of new vessels with long-term debt or capital leases. In determining the amount of credit to extend with respect to a particular vessel, lenders place higher values on predictable cash flows that result from longer-term charters. If we cannot secure long-term charters for the product tankers currently under construction, we many not be able to obtain adequate debt financing to acquire these vessels on reasonable terms or at all. We have a limited number of vessels, and any loss of use of a vessel could adversely affect our results of operations. We currently own six ITB units, one product tanker, three parcel tankers and one ATB unit. Much of our capacity is committed to certain customers through long term contracts. In the event any of our ITB units or parcel tankers has to be taken out of service for more than a few days, we may be unable to fulfill our obligations under our long-term contracts with our remaining vessels. If we are unable to fulfill such obligations, we would have to contract with a third-party for use of a vessel, at our expense, to transport the charterer's products, which might not be possible on acceptable terms or at all, or default under the contract, which would allow the charterer to terminate the contract. Also, if any of our four ATB units currently under construction or on order are not completed by the scheduled due date, we may be unable to fulfill our obligations under the long-term contracts we expect to have in place at the time of delivery. If we are unable to fulfill such obligations, we would have to contract with a third party for use of a vessel, at our expense, to transport the charterer's products, which may not be possible on acceptable terms or at all, or default under the contract, which would allow the charterer to terminate the contract. When we acquired the Charleston from ExxonMobil in May 2004, we agreed to transport cargo for ExxonMobil generally transported by the S/R Wilmington while such vessel was in drydock. We are obligated to use our best efforts to assist ExxonMobil in covering its cargo transportation requirements that would have been covered by the S/R Wilmington during future drydocks of that vessel. The next scheduled drydock for the S/R Wilmington is scheduled for 2009. This obligation to cover ExxonMobil cargo requirements will reduce our cash available for distribution to unitholders and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. We estimate our revenues and EBITDA were negatively impacted during 2007 by approximately $2.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively, due to the 61 day unplanned out-of-service period for the ITB Baltimore in 2007 to repair damages it sustained from Hurricane Dean while in the shipyard after completing its regularly scheduled drydocking. We rely exclusively on the revenues generated from our marine transportation business. Due to our lack of asset diversification, an adverse development in this business would have a significantly greater impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations than if we maintained and operated more diverse assets. 41 Increased competition in the domestic tank vessel industry could result in reduced profitability and loss of market share for us. Contracts for our vessels are generally awarded on a competitive basis, and competition in the markets we serve is intense and obtaining such charters generally requires a lengthy and time consuming screening and bidding process that may extend for months. The most important factors determining whether a contract will be awarded include: •availability, age and capability of the vessels; •ability to meet the customer's schedule; •price; •safety record; •ability to satisfy the customer's vetting requirements; •reputation, including perceived quality of the vessel; and •quality and experience of management. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources and larger operating staffs than we do. As a result, they may be able to make vessels available more quickly and efficiently, transition to double-hulled vessels more rapidly and withstand the effects of declines in charter rates for a longer period of time. They may be better able to address a downturn in the domestic demand for refined petroleum, petrochemical or commodity chemical products. As a result, we could lose customers and market share to these competitors. All of our ITBs were originally constructed more than 20 years ago. While all of these vessels are "in-class," meaning the vessel has been certified by a classification society as being built and maintained in accordance with the rules of that classification society and comply with the applicable rules and regulations of the United States Coast Guard, some existing and potential customers have stated that they will not charter vessels that are more than 20 years old. As a result of this age limitation, and the number of newbuilds expected to come into the market in the next several years, it is likely that demand for our ITBs, will be adversely affected. We originally expected the supply of domestic tank vessels competing with us to decrease over the next several years due to OPA 90, which mandates the phase-out of certain non-double-hulled tank vessels at varying times by January 1, 2015; and the Jones Act, which restricts the supply of new vessels by requiring that all vessels participating in the coastwise trade be constructed in the United States. However, with the announced newbuilding programs, we expect that these new vessels will become fully utilized on delivery and replace substantially all the capacity taken out of the market due to OPA 90. It is possible that some of these vessels may be placed in service prior to the phase-out of currently operating vessels, which could result in an over-supply of vessel capacity in the near term. As a result, we believe the domestic supply of tank vessels will not decrease at the rate we originally expected and may in fact increase, which will likely result in a decrease in charter rates, particularly in the spot market. In addition, any additional newbuildings or retrofittings of existing tank vessels may result in additional capacity that the market will not be able to absorb at the anticipated demand levels. The availability of additional capacity could adversely affect the charter rates that we can obtain for, and utilization of, our vessels, and limit our ability to obtain charters for our ITBs at reasonable rates. In addition, as a result of these newbuilding programs and customer reluctance to employ older vessels, there may be limited, demand for retrofitted ITBs, which may make the retrofitting of our ITBs uneconomical. If supply increases at a faster rate than demand, the charter rates and demand for our vessels could decline significantly. Our ITB fleet is currently our largest source of revenue and EBITDA. However, the expiration of the Hess Support Agreement in September 2007, under which we were assured minimum charter rates 42 for our ITB fleet, the fact that at least half of our ITBs are expected to operate in the spot market rather than under long-term charters, increased volatility in rates, and the likelihood of lower rates in the spot market due to an increasing supply of vessels, and higher operating expenses of our ITBs due to their age and the new union contracts will negatively impact the operating income and EBITDA provided by our ITBs over the next several years, and could adversely affect our ability to remain in compliance with the financial covenants in our debt agreements. We face competition from refined petroleum product pipelines. Long-haul transportation of refined petroleum products is generally less costly by pipeline than by tank vessel. The construction of new pipeline segments to carry petroleum products into our markets, including pipeline segments that connect with existing pipeline systems, the expansion of existing pipelines and the conversion of existing non-refined petroleum product pipelines, could adversely affect our ability to compete in particular locations. Our transportation of petrochemical and commodity chemical products faces intense competition from railroads, which we estimate transport approximately two-thirds of all petrochemical and commodity chemical products. We believe the cost of transporting these products by rail is generally higher than the cost of marine transportation, and any decrease in rail rates could adversely affect the amount of petrochemical and commodity chemical products we carry and the rates we can charge. If no market for retrofitted or repurposed ITBs develops, our business and our ability to pay the minimum quarterly distribution on our units and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness could be adversely affected. Our ITB fleet is currently our largest source of revenue and EBITDA. However, the expiration of the Hess support agreement in September 2007, the fact that more of our ITBs are expected to operate in the spot market, where vessels are employed on a single voyage basis, rather than under long-term charters, increased pressure on rates in the spot market due to an increasing supply of vessels, customer reluctance to charter older vessels and higher operating expenses of our ITBs due to their age and the new union contracts will negatively impact the operating income and EBITDA provided by our ITBs over the next several years. See "—The amount of cash we have available for distribution to unitholders depends primarily on our liquidity and cash flow and not solely on profitability." In addition, as a result of the newbuilding programs and customer reluctance to employ older vessels, there may be limited demand for retrofitted or repurposed ITBs following their OPA phase out dates between 2012 and 2014. If we are unable to acquire new vessels to replace our ITBs in the petroleum transportation market, or if it is not economically viable to retrofit any of our ITBs, our business, ability to pay the minimum quarterly distribution and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness could be adversely affected. Our vessels, particularly our ITBs, may be limited from international transportation of petroleum products due to international regulations similar to OPA 90. This may limit the overseas opportunities of our vessels. International standards, as promulgated by the International Maritime Organization ("IMO"), require that our vessels meet standards similar to OPA 90 standards four years prior to OPA 90 phase-out requirements. While we do not currently transport petroleum internationally, our ITBs will not be permitted to trade petroleum products internationally beyond phase-out dates that commence in 2008 through 2010, limiting alternate uses. Additionally, if we were to utilize vessels to trade petroleum internationally, such vessels may not qualify for participation in the UWILD Program, which requires that the vessels older than 15 years participating in the UWILD Program only trade domestically. 43 Delays or cost overruns in the construction of a new vessel or the drydock maintenance of existing vessels could adversely affect our business. Revenue from new or retrofitted vessels may not be immediate or as high as expected. We currently have four new ATB units under construction or on order, and plan to purchase up to nine new product tankers from the Joint Venture if we can obtain the necessary financing. In addition, each of our vessels must undergo mandatory drydocking for major repair and maintenance twice every five years (although to date we have been able to obtain waivers from the U.S. Coast Guard that allow us to drydock our ITB units once every five years with a mid-period underwater survey in lieu of drydocking) and, on occasion, may undergo unscheduled drydocking due to damage. To the extent we are unable to obtain waivers regarding the drydocking of our ITB units, we could experience additional off-hire days, which will reduce our revenue, and increased costs, which will adversely affect our cash available to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. The new tankers being constructed by the Joint Venture will be required to be drydocked twice every five years. We estimate that drydocking these vessels will cost approximately $6.0 million per ITB unit (although if we are required to conduct a second drydock for our ITBs in each five year period rather than rely on an underwater survey, we estimate that this second drydock will cost approximately $1.0 million to $2.0 million), $1.0 million to $2.0 million per ATB unit, $3.5 million to $6.0 million per parcel tanker and the Houston, and $3.5 million to $4.0 million per new tanker vessel. These projects will be subject to the risk of delay or cost overruns caused by the following: •inability of the selected contractors to perform their obligations under the various construction agreements; •unforeseen quality or engineering problems; •work stoppages or labor shortages; •unanticipated cost increases; •our requests for changes to the original vessel specifications; •inability to have the work performed in the United States; •delays in receipt of necessary equipment; •inability to obtain the requisite permits, approvals or certifications from the U.S. Coast Guard and the American Bureau of Shipping upon completion of work; •changes in governmental regulations or maritime self-regulatory organization standards; and •weather related conditions, such as hurricanes. Significant delays or construction cost overruns could have a material adverse effect on expected contract commitments for new or modified vessels and our future revenues, liquidity and cash flows. The construction of the ATB units and the new tankers may not be completed on schedule or at all or at the budgeted cost or we may not have sufficient funds to purchase the tankers from the Joint Venture. Our first delivered ATB unit, the ATB Freeport, was delivered more than one year after its originally scheduled delivery date and at a cost (after giving effect to a payment by the original contractor to cover certain cost overruns, but exclusive of capitalized interest and credits and other legal claims that we believe we can recover) approximately $46.0 million higher than the original cost under the contract; this delay and cost overrun had an adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. The construction contracts for the new ATBs and the tankers being constructed contain cost escalators that could increase the cost of constructing these vessels. In addition, our anticipated revenues may not increase immediately upon the expenditure of funds to construct or purchase the vessels. For instance, when we build a new vessel, the construction will occur over an extended period of time and we will not receive any material increases in revenues until after the vessel is put in operation. Moreover, significant delays in construction of new vessels could allow a charterer to cancel 44 the charter or require us to charter additional vessels to meet our contractual obligations. Furthermore, customer demand for, and revenues from, new vessels may not be as high as we currently anticipate and, as a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness, and our ability to obtain a return on our investment in new vessels or the Joint Venture, may be adversely affected. There is limited availability in U.S. shipyards for drydocking a vessel. As a result, the costs of performing drydock maintenance in the United States are significantly higher than they are overseas. Furthermore, U.S. shipyards may not have available capacity to perform drydock maintenance on our vessels at the times they require drydock maintenance, particularly in the event of an unscheduled drydock due to accident or other damage, in which event we will be required to have the work performed in an overseas shipyard. This may result in the vessel being off-hire, and therefore not earning any revenue, for a longer period of time because of the time required to travel to and from the overseas shipyard. In addition, we may be required to place a deposit in order to reserve shipyard slots for construction of new vessels, which may not be refundable if we elect not to proceed with such new construction. We could lose part or all of our investment in the Joint Venture and the growth of our business may be adversely affected. One of the ways we intend to grow our business and replace vessels that are not OPA 90 compliant is through the construction and purchase of new vessels. In our efforts to expand our business by constructing new vessels, we have entered into a contract with NASSCO to construct nine 49,000 dwt double-hulled petroleum tankers. We have formed the Joint Venture for the construction of the first five petroleum tankers by NASSCO, and have committed to provide $70.0 million of equity financing. If we are not able to purchase vessels from the Joint Venture or our vessel purchase option is terminated as a result of foreclosure under the Joint Venture credit facility or other adverse events, our growth strategy and our OPA 90 compliance strategy for replacement of our ITB fleet will be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness, and our investment in the Joint Venture will likely be negatively impacted. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we and our Joint Venture reached an agreement with NASSCO to accelerate the construction of the first five product tankers. Under the original arrangement with NASSCO, the first five product tankers were to be delivered between the second quarter of 2009 through the third quarter of 2011. Under the recent agreement, the product tankers will be delivered between the second quarter of 2009 and the first quarter of 2011. The financing arrangements of the Joint Venture require continued reinvestment of proceeds received from the sale of completed product tankers to us or to third parties to finance the construction of subsequent product tankers. The acceleration of the tankers' construction combined with the possibility that the vessels may not immediately be sold out of the Joint Venture increases the possibility that the Joint Venture will require additional capital at certain periods of time during the construction period, as the overlapping vessels under construction but not yet sold will need to be financed simultaneously by the Joint Venture, at levels above current commitments. In addition, if the Joint Venture experiences increased construction costs above the current commitments of capital to the Joint Venture, the Joint Venture will need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we do not provide our pro rata share of any additional equity capital required by the Joint Venture, our interest in the Joint Venture could be diluted. If the Joint Venture cannot otherwise obtain any required additional financing, our investment in the Joint Venture could be at risk. In addition, we will only receive a return of, and a return on, our investment in the Joint Venture after the other equity investors receive a return of their capital and a specified return on their investment, and therefore any cost overruns or failure to sell the vessels for expected prices will adversely affect the value of our equity investment. If the Joint Venture only 45 constructs the first five vessels and we are unable to finance the construction of vessels six through nine and therefore must pay damages to NASSCO as described below, we do not expect to receive any return on, or return of, the capital we contributed to the Joint Venture. Further, the purchase price for the newly constructed vessels may be too high to be justified based on then existing charter rates or we may not otherwise be able to obtain the necessary financing on acceptable terms or at all. Our construction contract with NASSCO obligates Product Carriers to construct nine tankers, of which the Joint Venture has only committed to construct the first five. To the extent the Joint Venture does not elect to construct any of the other four tankers, Product Carriers will be obligated to finance the construction of those vessels. We do not expect that the Joint Venture will assume our remaining obligations with respect to the last four tankers unless at least some of the initial tankers have been disposed of. There can be no assurance that we or Product Carriers will be able to arrange financing to construct such vessels on acceptable terms, or at all. In the event we are unable to obtain financing to purchase the initial tankers from the Joint Venture, we believe it will be very difficult to obtain financing to construct the remaining four tankers. Our inability to finance the construction of up to four vessels could have a material adverse effect on our business, our OPA 90 compliance strategy, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. In addition, our debt instruments will limit our ability to obtain the necessary financing. If Product Carriers is unable to obtain the financing for these four tankers, it is obligated to reimburse NASSCO for any damages incurred by NASSCO as a result of these tankers not being constructed, up to $10.0 million (plus costs and expenses incurred by NASSCO) for each such tanker, with such amounts being funded solely out of monies received by Product Carriers in respect of its equity investment in the first five vessels constructed by the Joint Venture. The recent acceleration of the product tankers' construction by the Joint Venture may require the Joint Venture to obtain additional financing for the construction of the product tankers. At the time we entered into the Joint Venture, we believed the equity and debt commitments of $500 million, together with the reinvestment of proceeds received from the sale of completed product tankers to us or to third parties to finance the construction of subsequent product tankers, would be sufficient to construct the first five tankers. In the fourth quarter of 2007, we and our Joint Venture reached an agreement with NASSCO to accelerate the construction of the first five product tankers. Under the original arrangement with NASSCO, the first five product tankers were to be delivered between the first quarter of 2009 through the third quarter of 2011. Under the recent agreement, these product tankers will be delivered between the second quarter of 2009 and the first quarter of 2011. The acceleration of the tankers' construction may require additional capital at certain periods of time during the construction period, as the overlapping vessels under construction but not yet sold will need to be financed simultaneously by the Joint Venture. If our Joint Venture cannot meet their financing requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. Our purchase of existing vessels involves risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our fleet renewal and expansion strategy includes the acquisition of existing vessels as well as the construction of new vessels. Unlike newly built vessels, existing vessels typically do not carry warranties with respect to their condition. While we generally inspect any existing vessel prior to purchase, such an inspection would normally not provide us with as much knowledge of its condition as we would possess if the vessel had been built for us and operated by us during its life. Repairs and maintenance costs for existing vessels are difficult to predict and may be more substantial than for vessels we have operated since they were built. These costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. 46 We may not be able to grow or effectively manage our growth. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow by expanding our business. Our future growth will depend upon a number of factors, some of which we can control and some of which we cannot. These factors include our ability to: •identify businesses engaged in managing, operating or owning vessels for acquisitions or joint ventures; •identify vessels for acquisition; •manage the construction of new vessels; •consummate acquisitions or joint ventures; •integrate any acquired businesses or vessels successfully with our existing operations; •hire, train and retain qualified personnel to manage and operate our growing business and fleet; •improve our operating and financial systems and controls and enhance and expand our financial accounting and reporting controls and personnel to manage growth activities; and •obtain required financing and necessary liquidity for our existing and new operations. A deficiency in any of these factors would adversely affect our ability to achieve anticipated growth in the levels of cash flows or realize other anticipated benefits. In addition, competition from other buyers could reduce our acquisition opportunities or cause us to pay a higher price than we might otherwise pay and reduce cash available for distribution to unitholders and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. Any acquisition of a vessel or business may not be profitable and may not generate returns sufficient to justify our investment. In addition, our acquisition growth strategy exposes us to risks that may harm our business, financial condition and operating results and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness, including the risks that we may: •fail to realize anticipated benefits (such as new customer relationships) or increase cash flow; •decrease our liquidity by using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance acquisitions; •significantly increase our interest expense and indebtedness if we incur additional debt to finance acquisitions; •incur or assume unanticipated liabilities, losses or costs associated with the business or vessels acquired; •dilute the interest of existing unitholders if we issue additional equity securities to finance acquisitions; •incur other significant charges, such as impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, asset devaluation or restructuring charges; or •distract management from its duties and responsibilities as it devotes substantial time and attention to the integration of the acquired businesses or vessels. The process of integrating acquired vessels into our operations may result in unforeseen operating difficulties, may absorb significant management attention and may require significant financial resources that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development and expansion of our existing operations. Future acquisitions could result in the incurrence of additional indebtedness and liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. In addition, we have had difficulty in finding suitable acquisition targets. 47 The Joint Venture agreement prohibits us from acquiring any vessels engaged in the coastwise trade built since January 1, 1996 that are greater than 30,000 dwt until all the vessels being constructed by the Joint Venture have been sold or have entered into charters meeting specified minimum standards. This restriction could adversely affect our ability to grow our business through vessel acquisitions and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations, which can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business and which may affect our ability to sell, lease, charter or otherwise transfer our vessels. Increasingly stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing worker health and safety, insurance requirements and the manning, construction, operation and transfer of vessels significantly affect our operations. Many aspects of the marine transportation industry are subject to extensive governmental regulation by the U.S. Coast Guard, the International Maritime Organization, the National Transportation Safety Board, the U.S. Customs Service and the U.S. Maritime Administration, as well as to regulation by private industry organizations such as the American Bureau of Shipping. The U.S. Coast Guard and the National Transportation Safety Board set safety standards and are authorized to investigate vessel accidents and recommend improved safety standards. The U.S. Coast Guard is authorized to inspect vessels at will. Our operations are subject to federal, state, local and international laws and regulations that control the discharge of pollutants into the environment or otherwise relate to environmental protection. Compliance with such laws, regulations and standards may require installation of costly equipment or operational changes. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in administrative and civil penalties, criminal sanctions or the suspension or termination of our operations. Some environmental laws often impose strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of oil and hazardous substances, which could subject us to liability without regard to whether we were negligent or at fault. Under OPA 90, owners, operators and bareboat charterers are jointly and severally strictly liable for the discharge of oil within the 200-mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Additionally, an oil spill could result in significant liability, including fines, penalties, criminal liability and costs for natural resource damages under other federal and state laws or civil actions. The potential for these releases could increase as we increase our fleet capacity. Most states bordering on a navigable waterway have enacted legislation providing for potentially unlimited liability for the discharge of pollutants within their waters. In order to maintain compliance with existing and future laws, we incur, and expect to continue to incur, substantial costs in meeting maintenance and inspection requirements, developing and implementing emergency preparedness procedures, and obtaining insurance coverage or other required evidence of financial ability sufficient to address pollution incidents. These laws can: •reduce the economic value of our vessels; •require a reduction in cargo carrying capacity or other structural or operational changes; •make our vessels less desirable to potential charterers; •lead to decreases in available insurance coverage for affected vessels; or •result in the denial of access to certain ports. We believe that regulation of the shipping industry will continue to become more stringent and more expensive for us and our competitors. Further, a serious marine incident occurring in U.S. waters that results in significant oil pollution could result in additional regulation. Future environmental and other requirements may be adopted that could limit our ability to operate, require us to incur substantial additional costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of 48 operations or financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. We depend upon unionized labor for the provision of our services. Any work stoppages or labor disturbances could disrupt our business. All unlicensed marine personnel are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the Seafarers' International Union that expires in 2012. Licensed officers, including our Captains, are employed under a collective bargaining agreement with the American Maritime Officers union that expires in 2010. Both union agreements effectively commenced in the second quarter of 2007 and are expected to increase vessel personnel costs by approximately $3.0 million in 2008 when compared to the 2007 levels under the expired contracts. Any work stoppages or other labor disturbances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. Our employees are covered by federal laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. All of our seagoing employees are covered by provisions of the Jones Act and general maritime law. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers' compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers' compensation statutes, we have greater exposure for claims made by these employees as compared to employers whose employees are not covered by these provisions. We depend on key personnel for the success of our business and some of those persons face conflicts in the allocation of their time to our business. We depend on the services of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss of the services of any key employee could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to locate or employ on acceptable terms qualified replacements for senior management or key employees if their services were no longer available. We currently do not carry any key man insurance on any of our employees. In addition, we may not be able to hire crew personnel meeting our standards if we expand our fleet. In addition, as a result of the planned expansion of our fleet through the construction of new vessels, we may need to hire additional key technical, support and other qualified personnel to ensure that construction is completed timely and on budget. If we are unsuccessful in attracting such personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The employment agreements of Messrs. Paul Gridley and Jeffrey Miller, our chairman and chief executive officer and vice president—chartering, respectively, only require them to spend a majority of their business time in managing our operations. Messrs. Gridley and Miller currently own and operate two Jones Act barges that have been transporting caustic soda and calcium chloride under contracts with third parties, and are permitted to acquire and operate additional tank barges of less than 15,000 deadweight tons under specified circumstances in the transportation of chemical products other than petroleum or petroleum products. Messrs. Gridley and Miller may face conflicts regarding the allocation of their time between our business and their barge business. If Messrs. Gridley and Miller were to spend less time in managing our business and affairs than they do currently, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, we sublease approximately 75% of our New York office space to companies affiliated with our chairman and chief executive officer. See "—Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us-The members of Shipping Master, including our executive officers, and their affiliates and the Joint Venture may engage in activities that compete directly with us." 49 In addition, certain members of our management expect to devote a significant portion of their business time overseeing the construction of the new vessels by the Joint Venture and obtaining contracts for such new vessels. This will reduce the amount of time they have to spend on our business and may pose conflicts in interest in obtaining charters for the Joint Venture's vessels rather than the vessels owned by us. To the extent that such individuals devote time to the management and operation of the Joint Venture, they will not be able to devote such time to us, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Terrorist attacks have resulted in increased costs and any new attacks could disrupt our business. Heightened awareness of security needs after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 have caused the U.S. Coast Guard, the International Maritime Organization and the states and local ports to adopt heightened security procedures relating to ports and vessels. Complying with these procedures, as well as the implementation of security plans for our vessels required by the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, have increased our costs of security. Any future terrorist attacks could disrupt harbor operations in the ports in which we operate, lead to, among other things, bodily injury or loss of life, vessel or other property damage, increased vessel operational costs, including insurance costs, and the inability to transport oil, petrochemical and commodity chemical products to or from certain locations. Terrorist attacks, war or other events beyond our control that adversely affect the distribution, production or transportation of oil, petrochemical and commodity chemical products to be shipped by us could entitle our customers to terminate the charters for our vessels, which would harm our cash flow and our business, which would disrupt our operations and result in lost revenue. The long-term impact that terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks may have on the petroleum industry in general, and on us in particular, is not known at this time. Uncertainty surrounding continued hostilities in the Middle East or other sustained military campaigns may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of petroleum supplies and markets, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror. Changes in the insurance markets attributable to terrorist attacks may make certain types of insurance more difficult for us to obtain. Moreover, the insurance that may be available to us may be significantly more expensive than our existing insurance coverage. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could affect our ability to raise capital. Changes in international trade agreements could affect our ability to provide marine transportation services at competitive rates. Currently, vessel trade or marine transportation between two ports in the United States, generally known as maritime cabotage or coastwise trade, is subject to U.S. laws, including the Jones Act, that restrict maritime cabotage to U.S. flag vessels qualified to engage in U.S. coastwise trade. Additionally, the Jones Act restrictions on the provision of maritime cabotage services are subject to certain exceptions under certain international trade agreements, including the General Agreement on Trade in Services and the North American Free Trade Agreement. If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise altered, the transportation of maritime cargo between U.S. ports could be opened to foreign-flag or foreign-manufactured vessels. Because foreign vessels may have lower construction costs and operate at significantly lower costs than we do in U.S. markets, this could significantly increase competition in the coastwise trade, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. 50 Risks Inherent in an Investment in Us Our general partner and its affiliates have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary duties, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. United States Shipping Master LLC ("Shipping Master") currently indirectly owns the 2% general partner interest and directly owns an approximately 37% limited partner interest in us and owns and controls our general partner. Conflicts of interest may arise between our general partner and its affiliates, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts include, among others, the following situations: •our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as our affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; •our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under Delaware law and has also restricted the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without such limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty and, by purchasing common units, unitholders will be deemed to have consented to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; •our general partner determines the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, capital expenditures (including, based on the applicable facts and circumstances, whether a capital expenditure is classified as a maintenance capital expenditure, which reduces basic surplus, or an expansion capital expenditure, which does not reduce basic surplus), borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness; •in some instances, our general partner may cause us to borrow funds in order to permit the payment of cash distributions, even if the purpose or effect of the borrowing is to make a distribution on the subordinated units, to make incentive distributions or to accelerate the expiration of the subordination period; •our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; •our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered on terms that are fair and reasonable to us or entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf; •our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; and •our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us. The members of Shipping Master, including our executive officers, and their affiliates and the Joint Venture may engage in activities that compete directly with us. Sterling/US Shipping L.P., the principal member of Shipping Master, the other members of Shipping Master and their respective partners, affiliates and the funds they manage or may manage, management and the Joint Venture, are not prohibited from owning assets or engaging in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Only Shipping Master and its controlled affiliates are subject to certain noncompete provisions. In addition, Messrs. Paul Gridley and Jeffrey Miller, our chairman and chief executive officer and vice president—chartering, respectively, own and operate two barges 51 engaged in the transportation of chemical products. Under their employment agreements, Messrs. Gridley and Miller are not prohibited from acquiring and operating additional tank barges of less than 15,000 deadweight tons under specified circumstances. Further, our executive officers will be devoting a portion of their business time overseeing the construction of the new vessels by the Joint Venture and obtaining charters for such new vessels. This will reduce the amount of time they have to spend on our business and may pose conflicts of interest in obtaining charters for the Joint Venture's vessels rather than the vessels owned by us. In addition, the Joint Venture agreement prohibits us from acquiring any vessels engaged in the coastwise trade built since January 1, 1996 that are greater than 30,000 dwt until all the vessels being constructed by the Joint Venture have been sold or have entered into charters meeting specified minimum standards. This restriction could adversely affect our ability to grow our business through vessel acquisitions and our ability to make cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. Further, to the extent we do not purchase vessels from the Joint Venture, the Joint Venture will have the ability to sell such vessels to third parties or to operate such vessels itself, which in either case will compete with our vessels. Please read "Risks Inherent in Our Business-We depend on key personnel for the success of our business and some of these persons face conflicts in the allocation of their time to our business." Our partnership agreement limits our general partner's fiduciary duties to unitholders and restricts the remedies available to unitholders for actions taken by our general partner that might otherwise constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. Our partnership agreement contains provisions that reduce the standards to which our general partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law. For example, our partnership agreement: •permits our general partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our general partner. This entitles our general partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires, and it has no duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or any limited partner or unitholder. Decisions made by our general partner in its individual capacity will be made by its sole owner, Shipping Master, and not by the board of directors of our general partner. Examples include the exercise of its limited call right, its rights to transfer or vote the units it owns and its determination whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the partnership or amendment of the partnership agreement; •provides that our general partner will not have any liability to us or our unitholders for decisions made in its capacity as general partner so long as it acted in "good faith," meaning that it reasonably believed that the decision is in our best interests; •generally provides that affiliated transactions and resolutions of conflicts of interest not approved by the conflicts committee of the board of directors of our general partner and not involving a vote of unitholders must be on terms no less favorable to us than those generally being provided to or available from unrelated third parties or be "fair and reasonable" to us and that, in determining whether a transaction or resolution is "fair and reasonable," our general partner may consider the totality of the relationships between the parties involved, including other transactions that may not be particularly advantageous or beneficial to us; •provides that in resolving conflicts of interest, it will be presumed that in making its decision the general partner or its conflicts committee acted in good faith, and in any proceeding brought by or on behalf of any limited partner or us, the person bringing or prosecuting such proceeding will have the burden of overcoming such presumption; and 52 •provides that our general partner and its officers and directors will not be liable for monetary damages to us, our limited partners or assignees for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the general partner or those other persons acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud, willful misconduct or gross negligence. Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our general partner without its consent. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our general partner or its board of directors on an annual or other continuing basis. The board of directors of our general partner, including the independent directors, is chosen by Shipping Master, which is controlled by Sterling/US Shipping L.P. In addition, Sterling/US Shipping L.P. has the right to designate a majority of the directors of Shipping Master and thus indirectly has the right to designate all the directors of our general partner. For more information, please read "Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence." Furthermore, if the unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have limited ability to remove our general partner. The vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of all outstanding common and subordinated units voting together as a single class is required to remove our general partner. Accordingly, the unitholders are currently unable to remove our general partner without its consent because Shipping Master and its affiliates own sufficient units to be able to prevent the general partner's removal. Also, if our general partner is removed without cause during the subordination periods and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal, all remaining subordinated units will automatically be converted into common units and any existing arrearages on the common units will be extinguished. A removal of our general partner under these circumstances would adversely affect the common units by prematurely eliminating their distribution and liquidation preference over the subordinated units, which would otherwise have continued until we had met certain distribution and performance tests. Cause is narrowly defined in our partnership agreement to mean that a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, non-appealable judgment finding our general partner liable for actual fraud, gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct in its capacity as our general partner. Cause does not include most cases of charges of poor management of the business, so the removal of our general partner during the subordination periods because of the unitholders' dissatisfaction with our general partner's performance in managing our partnership will most likely result in the termination of the subordination periods. We may issue additional common units without your approval, which would dilute your ownership interests. While any class A subordinated units remain outstanding, without the approval of our unitholders, our general partner may cause us to issue up to 2,139,609 additional common units for any purpose without unitholder approval, subject to any limitations imposed by the New York Stock Exchange, and a further 1,149,995 common units to fund the construction of capital improvements. Our general partner may cause us to issue an unlimited number of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank with the common units, without unitholder approval, subject to any limitations imposed by the New York Stock Exchange, in a number of circumstances such as: •the issuance of common units in connection with acquisitions or capital improvements that increase cash flow from operations per unit on an estimated pro forma basis; 53 •issuances of common units to repay indebtedness, the cost of which to service is greater than the distribution obligations associated with the units issued in connection with the repayment of the indebtedness; •the conversion of subordinated units into common units; •the conversion of units of equal rank with the common units into common units under some circumstances; •issuances of common units under our employee benefit plans; or •the conversion of the general partner interest and the incentive distribution rights into common units as a result of the withdrawal or removal of our general partner. In addition, while any class A subordinated units remain outstanding we can issue equity securities other than common units that contain terms providing for the conversion of those securities into common units upon the receipt of unitholder approval. The terms of the securities may entitle the holders to receive distributions in excess of the amount distributed to each common unit if our unitholders do not approve the conversion by a certain date, thus providing incentive to our unitholders to approve the conversion. The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of equal or senior rank will have the following effects: •our unitholders' proportionate ownership interest in us will decrease; •the amount of cash available for distribution on each unit may decrease; •because a lower percentage of total outstanding units will be subordinated units, the risk that a shortfall in the payment of the minimum quarterly distribution will be borne by our common unitholders will increase; •the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and •the market price of the common units may decline. Once no class A subordinated units remain outstanding, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders, subject to any limitations imposed by the New York Stock Exchange. Our partnership agreement does not give our unitholders the right to approve our issuance of equity securities ranking junior to the common units at any time. Our partnership agreement currently limits the ownership of our partnership interests by individuals or entities that are not U.S. citizens. This restriction could limit the liquidity of our common units. In order to ensure compliance with Jones Act citizenship requirements, the board of directors of our general partner has adopted a requirement that at least 76% of our partnership interests must be held by U.S. citizens. This requirement may have an adverse impact on the liquidity or market value of our common units, because holders will be unable to sell units to non-U.S. citizens. Any purported transfer of common units in violation of these provisions will be ineffective to transfer the common units or any voting, dividend or other rights in respect of the common units. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require you to sell your common units at an undesirable time or price and is not required to obtain a fairness opinion in connection with the exercise of its call right. If at any time our general partner and its affiliates own more than 80% of the common units, our general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or to us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price not less than their then-current market price. As a result, you may be required to sell your common 54 units at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on your investment. You may incur a tax liability upon a sale of your units. Our general partner is not obligated to obtain a fairness opinion regarding the value of the common units to be repurchased by it upon exercise of the limited call right. There is no restriction in our partnership agreement that prevents our general partner from issuing additional common units and exercising its call right. If our general partner exercised its limited call right, the effect would be to take us private and, if the units were subsequently deregistered, we would no longer be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our partnership agreement restricts the voting rights of unitholders owning 20% or more of our common units. Our partnership agreement restricts unitholders' voting rights by providing that any units held by a person that owns 20% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our general partner, its affiliates, their transferees and persons who acquired such units with the prior approval of the board of directors of our general partner, cannot vote on any matter. The partnership agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner and its affiliates, which will be determined by our general partner, will reduce available cash for distribution to you. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates for all expenses they incur on our behalf, which will be determined by our general partner in its sole discretion. These expenses will include all costs incurred by the general partner and its affiliates in managing and operating us, including costs for rendering corporate staff and support services to us. All of our employees, including vessel crews, are employees of a subsidiary of our general partner. We reimbursed our general partner $54.3 million, $46.4 million and $37.7 million in the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The reimbursement of expenses and payment of fees, if any, to our general partner and its affiliates could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions. In addition, under Delaware partnership law, our general partner has unlimited liability for our obligations, such as our debts and environmental liabilities, except for our contractual obligations that are expressly made without recourse to our general partner. To the extent our general partner incurs obligations on our behalf, we are obligated to reimburse or indemnify it. If we are unable or unwilling to reimburse or indemnify our general partner, our general partner may take actions to cause us to make payments of these obligations and liabilities. Any such payments could reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. The control of our general partner may be transferred to a third party without unitholder consent. Our general partner may transfer its general partner interest to a third party in a merger or in a sale of all or substantially all of its assets without the consent of the unitholders so long as the third party satisfies the citizenship requirements of the Jones Act. Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the ability of the members of our general partner from transferring their respective membership interests in our general partner to a third party that satisfies the citizenship requirements of the Jones Act. The new members of our general partner would then be in a position to replace the board of directors and officers of our general partner with their own choices and to control the decisions taken by the board of directors and officers of our general partner. 55 We do not have the same flexibility as other types of organizations to accumulate cash, which may limit cash available to make cash distributions. Unlike a corporation, our partnership agreement requires us to distribute, on a quarterly basis, 100% of our available cash to our unitholders of record and our general partner. Available cash is generally all of our cash receipts adjusted for cash distributions and net changes to reserves. Our general partner will determine the amount and timing of such distributions and has broad discretion to establish and make additions to our reserves or the reserves of our operating partnerships in amounts the general partner determines in its reasonable discretion to be necessary or appropriate: •to provide for the proper conduct of our business and the businesses of our operating subsidiaries (including reserves for future capital expenditures, payments of interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness, and for our anticipated future credit needs); •to provide funds for distributions to our unitholders and the general partner for any one or more of the next four calendar quarters; or •to comply with applicable law or any of our indenture, loan or other agreements. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner each quarter to deduct from basic surplus estimated maintenance capital expenditures, as opposed to actual expenditures, which could reduce the amount of available cash for distribution. The amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures deducted from basic surplus is subject to review and change by the board of directors of our general partner at least once a year, provided that any change must be approved by the conflicts committee. In addition, see above "Risks Inherent in Our Business—Our general partner is required to deduct estimated maintenance capital expenditures from basic surplus each quarter, which may result in less cash available to unitholders than if actual maintenance capital expenditures were deducted. In addition, the amount of estimated maintenance capital expenditures our general partner is required to deduct from basic surplus each quarter is based on our current estimates and could increase in the future." Dependent on the timing and amount of our cash distributions to unitholders and because we are not required to accumulate cash for the purpose of meeting obligations to unitholders, such distributions could significantly reduce the cash available to us in subsequent periods to make distributions to our unitholders. The value of our units will decrease in direct correlation with decreases in the amount we distribute per unit. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity problem in the future, we may not be able to issue equity to recapitalize. Our leverage may limit our ability to borrow additional funds, comply with the terms of our indebtedness or capitalize on business opportunities. Our leverage is significant in relation to our partners' capital. As of December 31, 2007, our total outstanding long-term debt, including current maturities, was $418.8 million (exclusive of the debt held by the Joint Venture of $41.2 million, which is intended to be non-recourse to us). We can borrow up to an additional $27.0 million under the revolving credit portion of under our amended and restated credit facility, and have the option, with the consent of the lenders, to increase the amount we can borrow by an additional $50.0 million, subject to limitations under the indenture governing our senior notes. We are prohibited by our amended and restated credit facility from making cash distributions during an event of default under any of our indebtedness. The indenture under which our senior notes were issued limits the amounts of distributions we may make when our fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the indenture) is less than 1.75 to 1. Various limitations in our debt instruments may reduce our ability to incur additional debt, to engage in some transactions and to capitalize on business opportunities. Any subsequent refinancing of our current indebtedness or any new indebtedness could 56 have similar or greater restrictions. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in our debt instruments may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If market or other economic conditions deteriorate, our ability to comply with these covenants may be impaired. If we breach any of the restrictions, covenants, ratios or tests in our debt agreements, a significant portion of our indebtedness may become immediately due and payable, and our lenders' commitment to make further loans to us may terminate. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. In addition, our obligations under our amended and restated credit facility are secured by substantially all of our assets (other than the assets of our unrestricted subsidiaries including the Joint Venture), and if we are unable to repay our indebtedness under our amended and restated credit facility, the lenders could seek to foreclose on such assets and such lenders would have the right to be paid in full in cash from the proceeds of such assets prior to holders of our senior notes receiving payment from the proceeds of such assets. The assets of the Joint Venture are pledged to the lenders under the Joint Venture's credit facility and Product Carriers pledged its 40% interest in the Joint Venture to the other parties financing the Joint Venture and to NASSCO to secure Product Carriers' obligation to pay damages under the construction contract if the Joint Venture elects not to build vessels six to nine and Product Carriers is unable to finance such construction. Our ability to make scheduled payments, to refinance our obligations with respect to our indebtedness or our ability to obtain additional financing in the future will depend on our financial and operating performance, which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors that are beyond our control. We believe that we will have sufficient cash flow from operations and available borrowings under our amended and restated credit facility to service our indebtedness, although the principal amount of our indebtedness will likely need to be refinanced in whole or in part at maturity. However, a significant downturn in the domestic marine transportation industry or other development adversely affecting our cash flow could materially impair our ability to service our indebtedness and to remain in compliance with our financial covenants. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to refinance all or a portion of our debt or sell assets. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our existing indebtedness or sell assets on terms that are commercially reasonable. Our leverage may adversely affect our ability to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general partnership requirements, pay distributions on our common units, future acquisition, construction or development activities, or to otherwise fully realize the value of our assets and opportunities because of the need to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness or to comply with any restrictive terms of our indebtedness. Our leverage may make our results of operations more susceptible to adverse economic and industry conditions by limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and may place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less debt. Our leverage and the other financial covenants in our amended and restated credit facility and the indenture governing our senior notes could restrict our ability to purchase vessels from the Joint Venture or pay distributions on our common units or limit our ability to obtain the funds necessary to finance the purchase of such vessels through the incurrence of additional debt. Our failure to acquire the vessels constructed by the Joint Venture could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition and our ability to pay cash distributions and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. 57 Restrictions in our debt agreements will limit our ability to pay distributions upon the occurrence of certain events. Our payment of principal and interest on our debt will reduce cash available for distribution on our units. Our credit facility prohibits our payment of distributions upon the occurrence of the following events, among others: •failure to pay any principal, interest, fees, expenses or other amounts when due; •any loan document or lien securing the credit facility ceases to be effective; •breach of certain financial covenants; •failure to observe any other agreement, security instrument, obligation or covenant beyond specified cure periods in certain cases; •default under other indebtedness of our operating company or any of our subsidiaries above specified amounts; •bankruptcy or insolvency events involving us, our general partner or any of our subsidiaries; •failure of any representation or warranty to be materially correct; •a change of control, as defined in our credit agreement; •a material adverse effect, as defined in our credit agreement, occurs relating to us or our business; and •judgments against us or any of our subsidiaries in excess of certain allowances. In addition, the indenture under which our senior notes were issued prohibits us from paying distributions following an event of default and provides that whenever our fixed charge coverage ratio (as defined in the indenture) is less than 1.75 to 1 for the last year, we cannot pay distributions that in aggregate during any period when our fixed charge coverage ratio is less than 1.75 to 1 an amount in excess of $50.0 million plus the proceeds of certain equity issuances. The minimum quarterly distribution per quarter that we have historically paid on our common units (excluding our subordinated and general partners units) is $5.1 million. Accordingly, we will be prohibited by the indenture from paying distributions except out of proceeds of certain equity issuances if our fixed charge coverage ratio is less that 1.75 to 1 for more than nine quarters (five quarters if the minimum quarterly distribution on our subordinated and general partner units is also paid). Any subsequent refinancing of our current debt or any new debt could have similar restrictions. We can borrow money under our amended and restated credit facility to pay distributions, which would reduce the amount of revolving credit available to operate our business. Our partnership agreement allows us to make working capital borrowings under our amended and restated credit facility to pay distributions. Accordingly, we can make distributions on all of our units even though cash generated by our operations may not be sufficient to pay such distributions. Any working capital borrowings by us to make distributions or contributions to the Joint Venture will reduce the amount of working capital borrowings we can make for operating our business. Our common unit price is volatile, which could adversely affect your investment. Our common unit price is volatile. Since our initial public offering of common units in November 2004 at a price of $22.50, our common units have traded as high as $28.80 per unit and as low as $8.00 58 per unit. The market price of our common units is influenced by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •our quarterly distributions; •our quarterly or annual earnings or those of other companies in our industry; •loss of a large customer or the loss of one or more of our vessels; •announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts or acquisitions; •changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; •general economic conditions; •the failure of securities analysts to cover our common units or changes in financial estimates by analysts; •future sales of our common units; and •the other factors described in these "Risk Factors." An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments in general and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Any such increase in interest rates or reduction in demand for our common units resulting from other relatively more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. Unitholders may have liability to repay distributions that were wrongfully distributed to them. Under some circumstances, unitholders may have to repay amounts wrongfully returned or distributed to them. We may not make a distribution to you if the distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our assets. Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the impermissible distribution, limited partners who received the distribution and who knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be liable to the limited partnership for the distribution amount. Purchasers of units who become limited partners are liable for the obligations of the transferring limited partner to make contributions to the partnership that are known to the purchaser at the time it became a limited partner and for unknown obligations if the liabilities could be determined from the partnership agreement. Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted. We have a holding company structure in which our subsidiaries conduct our operations and own our operating assets. We are a holding company, and our subsidiaries conduct all of our operations and own all of our operating assets. We have no significant assets other than the equity in our subsidiaries. As a result, our ability to service our debt, including payments of interest on, or the principal of, our senior notes, and make cash distributions to our unitholders depends on the performance of our subsidiaries and their ability to distribute funds to us. The ability of our subsidiaries to make distributions to us may be restricted by, among other things, credit facilities and applicable state limited liability company and corporate laws and other laws and regulations. We cannot assure you that the agreements governing the current and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries will permit our subsidiaries to provide us with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans to fund payments on the notes when due and make cash distributions to our unitholders. If we are unable to obtain the funds necessary to pay the principal amount of the senior notes at maturity, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as a refinancing of the senior notes or a reduction in the amount of the quarterly distribution. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance the senior notes. 59 The right to receive payments on our senior notes and the related subsidiary guarantees is secured by a second priority lien on the collateral and will be effectively subordinated to our existing and future indebtedness secured by a first lien on such collateral, as well as to any existing and future indebtedness of our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the senior notes or that is secured by assets that do not constitute collateral for the senior notes. If there is a default, the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to repay holders of the senior notes. As of December 31, 2007, the senior notes and the related subsidiary guarantees are effectively subordinated to $318.8 million of debt outstanding under our amended and restated credit facility, and we had available and undrawn $27.0 million under our senior secured revolver, all of which is secured by a first priority lien on substantially all of our and our guarantors' assets (including the collateral securing the notes), to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt. The proceeds from the sale or sales of all of the assets (including the collateral securing the senior notes) securing the amended and restated credit facility might not be sufficient to satisfy the amounts outstanding under the amended and restated credit facility and any other indebtedness permitted to be incurred and secured by first priority liens in the future. The senior notes and the related subsidiary guarantees may not be paid from the proceeds received from the sale of the collateral following a default until after payment in full in cash of all obligations secured by the first priority liens on such collateral. The senior notes and related subsidiary guarantees are effectively subordinated to such debt to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt. The senior notes are secured by all existing and in certain cases future vessels owned by us and our guarantors and a certain escrow account, while our amended and restated credit facility is secured by substantially all of our and our guarantors' assets. The senior notes are effectively subordinated to the amended and restated credit facility and any future obligations secured by first priority liens to the extent of the value of the assets that secure these obligations, but not the senior notes. In addition, subject to the restrictions contained in the indenture, we may incur additional debt that will be secured by first priority liens on the collateral securing the senior notes or by liens on assets that are not pledged to the holders of senior notes, all of which would effectively rank senior to the senior notes to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt. The value of the collateral securing the senior notes in the event of a liquidation will depend upon market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and similar factors. A sale of such collateral in a bankruptcy or similar proceeding would likely be made under duress, which would reduce the amounts that could be recovered. Furthermore, such a sale could occur when other companies in our industry are distressed, which might increase the supply of similar assets and/or decrease the number of potential buyers and therefore reduce the amounts that could be recovered. The condition of such collateral is likely to deteriorate during any period of financial distress preceding a sale of the collateral. Accordingly, the proceeds of any sale of the collateral securing the senior notes following an acceleration of maturity with respect to the senior notes is unlikely to be sufficient to satisfy, and may be substantially less than, amounts due on the senior notes. The senior notes will not be repaid from the proceeds of collateral following a default until the amended and restated credit facility and our other obligations that are secured on a first priority basis are repaid in full. If such proceeds were not sufficient to repay amounts outstanding under the notes, then holders of such notes (to the extent not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the collateral) would only have an unsecured claim against our remaining assets. Although all of our existing subsidiaries (other than U.S. Shipping Finance Corp., the co-issuer of the senior notes, Product Carriers and the Joint Venture) have initially guaranteed the senior notes, in the future the subsidiary guarantees are subject to release under certain circumstances, and we may have subsidiaries that are not guarantors. In that case, the senior notes would be effectively subordinated to the claims of all creditors, including trade creditors and tort claimants, of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors. In the event of the insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or winding up of the business of a subsidiary that is not a guarantor, creditors of that subsidiary would generally have the right to be paid in full before any distribution is 60 made to us or the holders of the senior notes. In connection with the formation of the Joint Venture, the Joint Venture entered into a $325.0 million credit facility to finance a portion of the construction cost for the tankers being constructed for the Joint Venture by NASSCO. The Joint Venture has not guaranteed the senior notes and as a result the assets of the Joint Venture will not be available to pay principal or interest on the senior notes. The lien-ranking agreements set forth in the indenture governing the senior notes and in the intercreditor agreement will limit the rights of the holders of the senior notes and their control with respect to the collateral securing the senior notes. The rights of the holders of the senior notes with respect to the collateral securing such notes are substantially limited pursuant to the terms of the lien-ranking agreements set forth in the indenture governing the senior notes and in the intercreditor agreement between, among others, the trustee for the senior notes and the collateral agent under our amended and restated credit facility. Holders of any indebtedness that is incurred in the future and secured by a first lien security interest in the collateral will be required to become a party to the lien-ranking agreements. Under those lien-ranking agreements, at any time that obligations that have the benefit of the first priority liens are outstanding, any actions that may be taken in respect of the collateral, including the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against the collateral and to control the conduct of such proceedings, and the approval of amendments to and waivers of past default under the collateral documents, will be at the direction of the lenders under the amended and restated credit facility and holders of any other obligations secured by the first priority liens. As a result, the trustee, on behalf of the holders of the senior notes, will not have the ability to control or direct such actions, even if the rights of the holders of the senior notes are adversely affected. Additionally, releases of collateral from the second priority lien securing the senior notes are permitted under some circumstances without the consent of the holders of the senior notes. Bankruptcy laws may limit the ability of holders of senior notes to realize value from the collateral. The right of the trustee or other agent to repossess and dispose of the collateral upon the occurrence of an event of default under the indenture governing the senior notes, any future credit facilities or other indebtedness secured by the collateral is likely to be significantly impaired by applicable bankruptcy law if a bankruptcy case were to be commenced by or against us before the collateral agent repossessed and disposed of the collateral. Under the bankruptcy code, a secured creditor is prohibited from repossessing its security from a debtor in a bankruptcy case, or from disposing of security repossessed from such debtor, without bankruptcy court approval. Moreover, the bankruptcy code permits the debtor to continue to retain and to use collateral even though the debtor is in default under the applicable debt instruments, provided that the secured creditor is given "adequate protection." The meaning of the term "adequate protection" may vary according to circumstances, but it is intended in general to protect the value of the secured creditor's interest in the collateral and may include cash payments or the granting of additional security, if and at such times as the court in its discretion determines that the value of the secured creditor's interest in the collateral is declining during the pendency of the bankruptcy case. In view of the lack of a precise definition of the term "adequate protection" and the broad discretionary powers of a bankruptcy court, it is impossible to predict (1) how long payments under the senior notes could be delayed following commencement of a bankruptcy case, (2) whether or when the collateral agent could repossess or dispose of the collateral or (3) whether or to what extent holders of the senior notes would be compensated for any delay in payment or loss of value of the collateral through the requirement of "adequate protection." In addition, the right of a secured creditor to receive interest on its claim that accrues after the bankruptcy case is subject to the court's determination that the value of the collateral is at least equal to the amount of collateral that secures the claim. 61 Any future pledges of collateral may be avoidable. Any future pledge of collateral in favor of the collateral agent might be avoidable by the pledgor (as debtor in possession) or by its collateral agent in bankruptcy or other third parties if certain events or circumstances exist or occur, including, among others, if the pledge or granting of the security interest is deemed a fraudulent conveyance or the pledgor is insolvent at the time of the pledge or granting of the security interest, the pledge permits the holders of the senior notes to receive a greater recovery than if the pledge had not been given and a bankruptcy proceeding in respect of the pledgor is commenced within 90 days following the pledge or, in certain circumstances, a longer period. The collateral is subject to casualty risks. We are obligated under the collateral arrangements to maintain adequate insurance or otherwise insure against hazards to the extent done by corporations operating properties of a similar nature in the same or similar localities. There are, however, certain losses that may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, in whole or in part. As a result, we cannot assure you that the insurance proceeds will compensate us fully for our losses. If there is a total or partial loss of any of the pledged collateral, we cannot assure you that any insurance proceeds received by us will be sufficient to satisfy all the secured obligations, including the senior notes. The collateral agent's ability to exercise remedies is limited. The security agreement provides the collateral agent on behalf of the holders of the senior notes with significant remedies, including foreclosure and sale of all or parts of the collateral. However, the rights of the collateral agent to exercise significant remedies (such as foreclosure) are, subject to certain exceptions, generally limited to a payment default, our bankruptcy or the acceleration of the indebtedness. Rights of holders of the senior notes in the collateral may be adversely affected by the failure to perfect security interests in certain collateral or the perfection of liens on the collateral by other creditors. Our obligations under the senior notes and the obligations of our guarantors under such notes are secured by second priority liens on the collateral, subject to certain permitted liens. The collateral includes all of our vessels and the vessels owned by our guarantors, whether now owned or in certain cases hereafter acquired and the escrow account established to hold the funds necessary to finance the construction of at least three new ATB units. We and the guarantors had 90 days from the closing of the offering of the senior notes to record and perfect the second priority mortgages related to the vessels. Applicable law requires that the property and rights acquired after the grant of a general security interest can only be perfected at the time the property and rights are acquired and identified. The trustee and the collateral agent have no obligation to monitor, and there is no assurance that we will inform the trustee or the collateral agent of, the future acquisition of property and rights that constitute collateral, and that the necessary action will be taken to properly perfect the security interest in the after-acquired collateral. The failure to perfect a security interest in respect of after-acquired collateral may result in the loss of the security interest therein or the priority of the security interest in favor of the senior notes against third parties. If we or any guarantor were to become subject to a bankruptcy proceeding, any liens recorded or perfected after the issue date of the senior notes would face a greater risk of being invalidated than if they had been recorded or perfected on the issue date. If a lien is recorded or perfected after the issue date, it may be treated under bankruptcy law as if it were delivered to secure previously existing debt. In bankruptcy proceedings commenced within 90 days of lien perfection, a lien given to secure previously existing debt is materially more likely to be avoided as a preference by the bankruptcy court than if delivered and promptly recorded on the issue date of the senior notes. Accordingly, if we or a 62 guarantor were to file for bankruptcy, after the issue date of the senior notes and the liens that had been perfected less than 90 days before commencement of the bankruptcy proceeding, the liens securing the senior notes may be specially subject to challenge as a result of having been delivered after the issue date of such notes. To the extent that such a challenge succeeded, holders of senior notes would lose the benefit of the security that the collateral was intended to provide. A court may use fraudulent conveyance considerations to avoid or subordinate the subsidiary guarantees. Various applicable fraudulent conveyance laws have been enacted for the protection of creditors. A court may use fraudulent conveyance laws to subordinate or avoid the subsidiary guarantees of the senior notes issued by any of our subsidiary guarantors. It is possible that under certain circumstances a court could hold that the direct obligations of a subsidiary guaranteeing the senior notes could be superior to the obligations under that guarantee. A court could avoid or subordinate the guarantee of the senior notes by any of our subsidiaries in favor of that subsidiary's other debts or liabilities to the extent that the court determined either of the following were true at the time the subsidiary issued the guarantee: •that subsidiary incurred the guarantee with the intent to hinder, delay or defraud any of its present or future creditors or that subsidiary contemplated insolvency with a design to favor one or more creditors to the total or partial exclusion of others; or •that subsidiary did not receive fair consideration or reasonable equivalent value for issuing the guarantee and, at the time it issued the guarantee, that subsidiary: •was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the guarantee; •was engaged or about to engage in a business or transaction for which the remaining assets of that subsidiary constituted unreasonably small capital; •intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they matured; or •was a defendant in an action for monetary damages, or had a judgment for monetary damages against it if, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment is unsatisfied. The measure of insolvency for purposes of the foregoing will vary depending upon the law of the relevant jurisdiction. Generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent for purposes of the foregoing if the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, were greater than the fair saleable value of all of its assets at a fair valuation, if the present fair saleable value of its assets were less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and matured; the guarantor was a defendant in an action for monetary damages, or had a judgment for monetary damages docketed against it if, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment was unsatisfied; or it could not pay its debts as they became due. Among other things, a legal challenge of a subsidiary's guarantee of the notes on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by that subsidiary as a result of our issuance of the senior notes. To the extent a subsidiary's guarantee of the senior notes is avoided as a result of fraudulent conveyance or held unenforceable for any other reason, the senior note holders would cease to have any claim in respect of that guarantee. We may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of specific change of control events affecting us, holders of senior notes will have the right to require us to repurchase such notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest and liquidated damages, if any, to the date of payment. Our ability to repurchase 63 the senior notes upon such change of control would be limited by our access to funds at the time of the repurchase and the terms of our other debt agreements. A change of control would cause a default under our amended and restated credit facility. Upon a change of control event, we may be required immediately to repay the outstanding principal, any accrued interest on and any other amounts owed by us under our credit facilities, the senior notes and other outstanding indebtedness. The source of funds for these repayments would be our available cash or cash generated from other sources. However, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient funds available upon a change of control to fund any required repurchases of this outstanding indebtedness and to pay damages under other agreements. In addition, certain important partnership events, such as leveraged recapitalizations, that would increase the level of our indebtedness would not constitute a "change of control" under the indenture governing the senior notes. Tax Risks Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to entity-level taxation by states. If the IRS were to treat us as a corporation or if we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, this would reduce cash available for distribution to unitholders. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in our common units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. For federal income tax purposes, we take the position that we are a partnership that is not subject to federal income tax. We can take this position only if 90% or more of our gross income in each year consists of certain identified types of "qualifying income" (which includes dividends from subsidiary corporations and income from the transportation of minerals and natural resources, including gas, oil or products thereof). Consequently, we are required to make certain decisions regarding whether our revenue is qualifying income and to perform certain activities through subsidiaries that are taxable as regular domestic corporations. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS or any state on our status as a partnership or any other matter affecting us. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS or a state tax authority may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units, our notes and the prices at which they trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS or a state tax authority will result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to unitholders and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income (other than dividend income from any subsidiary that is itself subject to corporate income tax) at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to unitholders and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness would be substantially reduced. Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity-level taxation. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. For example, in response to certain recent developments, members of Congress are considering substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income under Section 7704(d) of the Internal Revenue Code. It is possible that these efforts could result in changes to the existing U.S. tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships, including us. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If any state were to impose a tax upon us as an entity, the cash available for 64 distribution to unitholders and to pay interest on, and principal of, our indebtedness would be reduced. The partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then the minimum quarterly distribution amount and the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively affect the value of an investment in our common units. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state, local, and foreign income taxes on their share of our taxable income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions equal to their share of our taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of our common units could be different than expected. If a unitholder sells his common units, that unitholder will recognize gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and the unitholder's tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions in excess of the total net taxable income the unitholder was allocated, which decreased the unitholder's tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to the unitholder if the common unit is sold at a price greater than the unitholder's tax basis in that common unit, even if the price the unitholder receives is less than the unitholder's original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to unitholders. Should the IRS successfully contest some positions we take, unitholders could recognize more gain on the sale of common units than would be the case under those positions, without the benefit of decreased income in prior years for which the statute of limitations has expired. In addition, if unitholders sell their common units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash they receive from the sale. Unitholders may be subject to state, local and foreign taxes and return filing requirements as a result of investing in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is the responsibility of unitholders to file all federal, state, local and foreign tax returns. We do not provide tax advice to our prospective or current unitholders and recommend they consult with their tax advisor for further guidance and additional tax related information. We have subsidiaries that are treated as corporations for federal income tax purposes and subject to corporate-level income taxes. We conduct the operations of our vessels, the Chemical Pioneer and the ATB Freeport, through subsidiaries that are taxed as corporations. We began to operate the ITB Philadelphia and the Sea Venture in subsidiaries that are taxed as corporations commencing in December 2007 and January 2008, respectively. As we seek to maintain utilization of our ITBs, it is likely that one or more of our ITBs will begin to transport products that do not generate "qualifying income". We may elect to, or be required to, conduct additional operations through these or other corporate subsidiaries in the future. We may be required to place other of our vessels, including one or more of our ATB units under construction, in subsidiaries taxed as corporations. In addition, we have three other subsidiaries 65 organized as corporations: U.S. Shipping Finance Corp., which is co-issuer of our senior notes, USS PC Holding Corp. and USS JV Manager, Inc. USS JV Manager, Inc. receives management and other fees from the Joint Venture. These corporate subsidiaries are subject to corporate-level tax, which will reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. If the IRS were to successfully assert that these corporations have more tax liability than we anticipate or legislation was enacted that increased the corporate tax rate, our cash available for distribution to unitholders would be further reduced. To the extent more of our activities involve the transportation of products that do not generate "qualifying income," it will be more difficult for us to insure that at least 90% of our revenue is "qualifying income". If less than 90% of our revenue is "qualifying income," we will be taxed as a corporation rather than a partnership, which will result in a significant reduction in the amount of cash available for distribution to unitholders. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning common units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), regulated investment companies (known as mutual funds), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We do not provide tax advice to our prospective or current unitholders and recommend they consult with their tax advisor for further guidance and additional tax related information. We will treat each purchaser of units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to you. It could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from your sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of our common units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests during any 12-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 