Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Business—Our financial condition and history of losses have caused our auditors to express doubt as to whether we will be able to continue as a going concern.” 16 We no longer operate any business. With the suspension of the Company’s RHEO™ System clinical development program, and the consequent winding-down of the RHEO-AMD study, and the Company’s disposition of SOLX, the Company no longer has any operating business. Its major asset is its 50.1% ownership stake, on a fully diluted basis, in OcuSense. Accordingly, unless we acquire other businesses (which, in light of the Company’s financial condition, is unlikely to occur), our ability to generate any revenues will be dependent almost entirely upon the success of OcuSense. The Company’s major asset is encumbered. The repayment of the bridge loan, in the aggregate principal amount of $3,000,000, which the Company secured on February 19, 2008 from a number of private parties, is secured by a pledge by OccuLogix of its shares of the capital stock of OcuSense. If the Company fails to repay this loan and accrued interest by the loan’s maturity date, which will occur on the 180th day following February 19, 2008 or, under certain circumstances, the 270th day following February 19, 2008, the lenders may realize upon their collateral and seize OccuLogix’s shares of the capital of OcuSense, thus causing the Company to lose its major asset. Accordingly, the Company may lose its major asset unless it succeeds in raising additional capital in an amount sufficient to repay the loan and accrued interest by the loan’s maturity date—which the Company is permitted to do through a sale of the collateral, provided that the sale generates proceeds in an amount sufficient to repay the loan and accrued interest if full. The $3,000,000 aggregate principal amount bridge loan represents a significant dilution risk for existing stockholders. Under the terms of the loan agreement pursuant to which the Company secured a bridge loan, in the aggregate principal amount of $3,000,000, on February 19, 2008 from a number of private parties, the Company has two pre-payment options available to it, should it decide to not wait until the maturity date to repay the loan. Under the first pre-payment option, the Company may repay the loan in full by paying the lenders, in cash, the amount of outstanding principal and accrued interest and issuing to the lenders five-year warrants in an aggregate amount equal to approximately 19.9% of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock (but not to exceed 20% of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock). The warrants would be exercisable into shares of the Company’s common stock at an exercise price of $0.10 per share and would not become exercisable until the 180th day following their issuance. Under the second pre-payment option, provided that the Company has closed a private placement of shares of its common stock for aggregate gross proceeds of at least $4,000,000, the Company may repay the loan in full by issuing to the lenders shares of its common stock, in an aggregate amount equal to the amount of outstanding principal and accrued interest, at a 15% discount to the price paid by the private placement investors. An exercise by the Company of either pre-payment option will result in significant dilution of the holdings of existing stockholders. Any exercise by the Company of the second pre-payment option would be subject to stockholder and regulatory approval. OcuSense will face challenges in bringing the TearLab™ test for DED to market and may not succeed in executing its business plan. At the present time, OcuSense is relying almost entirely on OccuLogix to fund its business. Following the payment by OccuLogix of $2,000,000 upon OcuSense’s successful production and testing of the beta version of the TearLab™ test for DED, there can be no assurance that OccuLogix will be a reliable source of future funding for OcuSense, notwithstanding its agreement to purchase $3,000,000 of shares of OcuSense’s Series B Preferred Stock upon OcuSense’s receipt from the FDA, if any, of 510(k) clearance for the TearLab™ test for DED and to purchase another $3,000,000 of shares of OcuSense’s Series B Preferred Stock upon OcuSense’s receipt from the FDA, if any, of a CLIA waiver for the TearLab™ test for DED. 17 There are numerous risks and uncertainties inherent in the development of new medical technologies. In addition to OcuSense’s eventual requirement for additional capital, OcuSense’s ability to bring the TearLab™ test for DED to market and to execute its business plan successfully is subject to the following risks, among others: · OcuSense’s clinical trials may not succeed. Clinical testing is expensive and can take longer than originally anticipated. The outcomes of clinical trials are uncertain, and failure can occur at any stage of the testing. OcuSense could encounter unexpected problems, which could result in a delay in the submission of its applications for the sought-after FDA approvals or prevent their submission altogether. · OcuSense may not receive either the 510(k) clearance or the CLIA waiver for the TearLab™ test for DED that it will be seeking from the FDA, in which case OcuSense’s ability to market the TearLab™ test for DED in the United States will be hindered severely, if not eliminated altogether. · OcuSense and its suppliers will be subject to numerous FDA requirements covering the design, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion and export of the TearLab™ test for DED and other matters. If OcuSense or its suppliers fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, the TearLab™ System could be subject to restrictions or withdrawals from the market and OcuSense could become subject to penalties. · Even if it succeeds in obtaining the sought-after FDA approvals, OcuSense may be unable to commercialize the TearLab™ test for DED successfully in the United States. Successful commercialization will depend on a number of factors, including, among other things, achieving widespread acceptance of the TearLab™ test for DED among physicians, establishing adequate sales and marketing capabilities, addressing competition effectively, the ability to obtain and enforce patents to protect proprietary rights from use by would-be competitors, key personnel retention and ensuring sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to support commercialization plans. OcuSense’s patents may not be valid, and OcuSense may not be able to obtain and enforce patents to protect its proprietary rights from use by would-be competitors. Patents of other companies could require OcuSense to stop using or pay to use required technology. OcuSense’s owned and licensed patents may not be valid, and it may not be able to obtain and enforce patents and to maintain trade secret protection for its technology. The extent to which OcuSense is unable to do so could materially harm its business. OcuSense has applied for, and intends to continue to apply for, patents relating to the TearLab™ test for DED and related technology and processes. Such applications may not result in the issuance of any patents, and any patents now held or that may be issued may not provide adequate protection from competition. Furthermore, it is possible that patents issued or licensed to OcuSense may be challenged successfully. In that event, if OcuSense has a preferred competitive position because of any such patents, any preferred position held by OcuSense would be lost. If OcuSense is unable to secure or to continue to maintain a preferred position, the TearLab™ test for DED could become subject to competition from the sale of generic products. Patents issued or licensed to OcuSense may be infringed by the products or processes of others. The cost of enforcing patent rights against infringers, if such enforcement is required, could be significant and the time demands could interfere with OcuSense’s normal operations. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical technology industries. OcuSense could become a party to patent litigation and other proceedings. The cost to it of any patent litigation, even if resolved in its favor, could be substantial. Some of OcuSense’s would-be competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation more effectively than it can because of their substantially greater financial resources. Litigation may also absorb significant management time. 18 Unpatented trade secrets, improvements, confidential know-how and continuing technological innovation are important to OcuSense’s future scientific and commercial success. Although it attempts to, and will continue to attempt to, protect its proprietary information through reliance on trade secret laws and the use of confidentiality agreements with corporate partners, collaborators, employees and consultants and other appropriate means, these measures may not effectively prevent disclosure of OcuSense’s proprietary information, and, in any event, others may develop independently, or obtain access to, the same or similar information. Certain of OcuSense’s patent rights are licensed to it by third parties. If OcuSense fails to comply with the terms of these license agreements, its rights to those patents may be terminated, and OcuSense will be unable to conduct its business. It is possible that a court may find OcuSense to be infringing upon validly issued patents of third parties. In that event, in addition to the cost of defending the underlying suit for infringement, OcuSense may have to pay license fees and/or damages and may be enjoined from conducting certain activities. Obtaining licenses under third-party patents can be costly, and such licenses may not be available at all. Our common stock may be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. On September 18, 2007, OccuLogix received a letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, indicating that, for the previous 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of the Company’s common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement for continued inclusion under Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(5), or the Minimum Bid Price Rule. Therefore, in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), the Company was provided 180 calendar days, or until March 17, 2008, to regain compliance. The Nasdaq letter stated that, if, at any time before March 17, 2008, the bid price of the Company’s common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days, Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that it has achieved compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. The Nasdaq letter also stated that, if the Company does not regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule by March 17, 2008, Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that the Company’s securities will be delisted, at which time the Company may appeal the Nasdaq staff’s determination to delist its securities to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. On February 1, 2008, OccuLogix received a letter from Nasdaq indicating that, for the previous 30 consecutive trading days, the Company’s common stock did not maintain a minimum market value of publicly held shares of $5,000,000 as required for continued inclusion by Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(2), or the MVPHS Rule. Therefore, in accordance with Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(1), the Company was provided 90 calendar days, or until May 1, 2008, to regain compliance. The Nasdaq letter stated that, if at any time before May 1, 2008, the minimum market value of publicly held shares of the Company’s common stock is $5,000,000 or greater for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days, Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that the Company complies with the MVPHS Rule. The Nasdaq letter also stated that, if the Company does not regain compliance with the MVPHS Rule by May 1, 2008, Nasdaq staff will provide written notification that the Company’s securities will be delisted, at which time the Company may appeal the Nasdaq staff’s determination to delist its securities to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel. The Company will not have become compliant with the Minimum Bid Price Rule by March 17, 2008. Although we intend to appeal any determination by Nasdaq staff to delist our common stock to a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel, we may not be successful in our appeal, in which case our common stock may be transferred to The Nasdaq Capital Market or be delisted altogether. Should either occur, existing stockholders will suffer decreased liquidity. 19 OcuSense and we may face future product liability claims. The testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of therapeutic and diagnostic products entail significant inherent risks of allegations of product liability. Our past use of the RHEO™ System and the components of the SOLX Glaucoma System in clinical trials and the commercial sale of those products may have exposed us to potential liability claims. OcuSense’s future use of the TearLab™ test for DED and its commercial sale could expose it to liability claims also. All of such claims might be made directly by patients, health care providers or others selling the products. We carry clinical trials and product liability insurance to cover certain claims that could arise, or that could have arisen, during our clinical trials or during the commercial use of our products. We currently maintain clinical trials and product liability insurance with coverage limits of $5,000,000 in the aggregate annually. Such coverage, and any coverage obtained in the future, may be inadequate to protect OcuSense or us in the event of successful product liability claims, and neither OcuSense nor we may be able to increase the amount of such insurance coverage or even renew it. A successful product liability claim could materially harm our business. In addition, substantial, complex or extended litigation could result in the incurrence of large expenditures and the diversion of significant resources. For as long as TLC Vision owns a substantial portion of our common stock, our other stockholders may be effectively unable to affect the outcome of stockholder voting. TLC Vision beneficially owns approximately 32.8% of our outstanding common stock, or 28.9% on a fully diluted basis. Accordingly, TLC Vision, in conjunction with other stockholders, could possess an effective controlling vote on matters submitted to a vote of the holders of our common stock. While it owns a substantial portion of our common stock, TLC Vision could effectively control decisions with respect to: • our business direction and policies, including the election and removal of our directors; • mergers or other business combinations involving us; • the acquisition or disposition of assets by us; • our financing; and • amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. Furthermore, TLC Vision may be able to cause or prevent a change of control of the Company, and this concentration of ownership may have the effect of discouraging others from pursuing transactions involving a potential change of control of the Company, in either case regardless of whether a premium is offered over then-current market prices. Conflicts of interest may arise between us and TLC Vision, which, until December 2007, had two directors on our board and currently has one director on our board. Our Chief Executive Officer and Chairman served as Chairman of TLC Vision until June 2006. TLC Vision beneficially owns approximately 32.8% of our outstanding common stock, or 28.9% on a fully diluted basis. Our director, Richard Lindstrom, is also a director of TLC Vision. Until June 2007 and December 2007, respectively, our directors, Elias Vamvakas and Thomas Davidson, also served as directors of TLC Vision. Mr. Vamvakas beneficially owns 1,041,795 common shares of TLC Vision, representing approximately 2.08% of TLC Vision’s outstanding shares. Mr. Davidson beneficially owns 67,127 common shares of TLC Vision, representing approximately 0.14% of TLC Vision’s outstanding shares, and Dr. Lindstrom beneficially owns 29,500 common shares of TLC Vision, representing approximately 0.06% of TLC Vision’s outstanding shares. Because Dr. Lindstrom is a director of TLC Vision, a conflict of interest could arise. Conflicts may arise between TLC Vision and us as a result of our ongoing agreements. We may not be able to resolve all potential conflicts with TLC Vision, and even if we do, the resolution may be less favorable to us than if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. 20 We have entered into a number of related party transactions with suppliers, creditors, stockholders, officers and other parties, each of which may have interests which conflict with those of our public stockholders. We have entered into several related party transactions with our suppliers, creditors, stockholders, officers and other parties, each of which may have interests which conflict with those of our public stockholders. 21 ITEM 