ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Properties and Operations Our investments in underperforming or distressed malls could be subject to higher than anticipated costs and unexpected redevelopment delays, which would adversely affect our investment returns, harm our operating results and reduce funds available for distributions to our stockholders. A key component of our growth strategy is pursuing renovation and repositioning opportunities in underperforming or distressed malls. These renovation and repositioning projects may (i) be abandoned after funds have been expended, (ii) not be completed on schedule or within budgeted amounts, or (iii) encounter delays or refusals in obtaining all necessary zoning, land use, building, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations. Any of the foregoing circumstances could result in our failing to realize any return on our investment or a lower return than expected. Such an outcome could reduce our revenue, harm our operating results and reduce funds available for distributions to our stockholders. The assumptions we make in evaluating a renovation or repositioning opportunity may not prove to be correct and, as a result, our investment returns may be adversely impacted. In deciding whether to renovate and reposition a particular property, we make certain assumptions regarding the expected future performance of that property and the projected costs and expenses to be incurred. We may underestimate the costs or time necessary to bring the property up to the standards established for its intended market position or may be unable to increase occupancy at a newly acquired property as quickly as expected or at all. Any substantial unanticipated delays or expenses could adversely affect the investment returns from these projects and harm our operating results, liquidity and financial performance. Our properties are limited to seven geographic areas leaving us exposed to economic downturns in those areas. Our properties are located in areas of or surrounding Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; Tucson, Arizona; Bloomingdale, Illinois; Albany, New York; Tallahassee, Florida; Cincinnati, Ohio; and Dallas, Texas. We are particularly exposed to downturns in these local economies or other changes in local real estate market conditions. As a result of economic changes in these markets, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flow, the trading price of our common stock, our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and our ability to pay distributions could be materially adversely affected. We may seek to acquire, renovate and reposition a property in a new, less familiar geographic area, and such an expansion may not prove successful or achieve expected performance even if successfully completed. We may in the future renovate and reposition malls in geographic regions where we do not currently have a presence and where we do not possess the same level of familiarity with redevelopment as we do in other geographic areas. Our ability to redevelop such properties successfully or at all or to achieve expected performance depends, in part, on our familiarity with local demographic trends and potential competition from new development. There can be no assurance that we will make any investments in any other properties that meet our investment criteria. 13 Table of Contents We have a limited operating history and might not be able to operate our business or implement our strategies successfully. We were organized in July 2004 and have only a limited operating history as a publicly traded mall REIT dedicated to the acquisition, renovation and repositioning of retail shopping malls. Our lack of a long operating history provides a limited basis to evaluate the likelihood that we will be able to successfully implement our mall renovation and repositioning strategies. We cannot assure you that our past experience will be sufficient to successfully operate our company as a publicly traded mall REIT. Management’s Internal Control Assessment As of December 31, 2006, we determined that our controls over financial reporting contained a material weakness. We lacked the necessary personnel with adequate technical accounting expertise to ensure the financial statements were prepared accurately and on a timely basis. As a result, we were unable to adequately complete our necessary procedures, such as proper review and approval of supporting documents and journal entries, to prepare our financial statements on a timely basis in accordance with regulatory guidelines. Management has commenced hiring and training additional personnel to correct this material weakness. Any tenant bankruptcies or leasing delays we encounter, particularly with respect to our anchor tenants, could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We receive a substantial portion of annualized base rent from long-term leases, which we define as having an initial term of more than five years. At any time, any of our tenants may experience a downturn in their business that may weaken their financial condition. As a result, our tenants may delay lease commencement, fail to make rental payments when due or declare bankruptcy. Any leasing delays, tenant failure to make rental payments when due or tenant bankruptcies could result in the termination of the tenant’s lease and, particularly in the case of a key anchor tenant, material losses to us and harm to our results of operations. Some of our tenants may occupy stores at multiple locations in our portfolio, and the impact of a bankruptcy of those tenants may be more significant to us than to other mall operators. If tenants are unable to comply with the terms of our leases, we may modify lease terms in ways that are unfavorable to us. In addition, under many of our leases, our tenants may be required to pay rent based on a percentage of their sales or other operating results. Accordingly, declines in these tenants’ operating performance would reduce the income produced by our properties. Any bankruptcy filings by or relating to one of our tenants or a lease guarantor would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from that tenant, the lease guarantor or their property, unless we receive an order permitting us to do so from the bankruptcy court. A tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could also delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases, and could ultimately preclude full collection of these sums. If a tenant affirms the lease while in bankruptcy, all pre-bankruptcy balances due under the lease must be paid to us in full. However, if a tenant rejects the lease while in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for prepetition damages. Any unsecured claim we hold may be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. It is possible that we may recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold, which may harm our financial condition. Certain provisions of our leases with some of our tenants may harm our operating performance. We have entered into leases with some of our tenants that allow the tenant to terminate its lease, or to pay reduced rent, if certain tenants fail to open or subsequently cease operating, if certain percentages of the shop space in the applicable mall are not leased, if we violate exclusives and/or restrictions imposed under the leases on the types and sizes of certain tenants or uses or if the tenant fails to achieve certain minimum sales levels. If any of these events occur, we may be unable to re-lease the vacated space which would reduce our rental revenue. In addition, in many cases, our tenant leases contain provisions giving the tenant the exclusive right to sell particular types of merchandise or provide specific types of services within the particular mall, or limit the ability of other tenants within that mall to sell that merchandise or provide those services. When re-leasing space after a vacancy by one of these other tenants, these provisions may limit the number and types of prospective tenants for the vacant space. The failure to re-lease on satisfactory terms could harm our operating results. 14 Table of Contents Adverse economic or other conditions in the markets in which we do business could negatively affect our occupancy levels and rental rates and therefore our operating results. Our operating results are dependent upon our ability to maximize occupancy levels and rental rates in our properties. Adverse economic or other conditions in the markets in which we operate may lower our occupancy levels and limit our ability to increase rents or require us to offer rental discounts. If our properties fail to generate sufficient revenues to meet our cash requirements, including operating and other expenses, debt service and capital expenditures, our net income, funds from operations, cash flow, financial condition and ability to make distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected. The following factors, among others, may adversely affect the operating performance of our properties: • the national economic climate and the local or regional economic climate in the markets in which we operate, which may be adversely impacted by, among other factors, industry slowdowns, relocation of businesses and changing demographics; • periods of economic slowdown or recession, rising interest rates or the public perception that any of these events may occur, which could result in a general decline in rent under our leases or an increase in tenant defaults; • local or regional real estate market conditions such as the oversupply of shop space in a particular area; • negative perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our properties and the areas in which they are located; • increases in operating costs, including the need for capital improvements, insurance premiums, real estate taxes and utilities; • changes in supply of or demand for similar or competing properties in an area; • the impact of environmental protection laws; • earthquakes and other natural disasters, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or acts of war which may result in uninsured or underinsured losses; and • changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws. Competition may impede our ability to renew leases or re-let space as leases expire and require us to undertake unbudgeted capital improvements, which could harm our operating results. We face competition from the following retail centers that are near our malls with respect to the renewal of leases and re-letting of space as leases expire. For example: • The Harrisburg Mall faces competition from two regional malls, a lifestyle center and four power centers located within 10 miles of the property. • The Foothills Mall faces competition from three regional malls and seven power centers within 12 miles of this property. We expect the construction of new retail properties to increase modestly in proportion to demand so that vacancy levels remain low. • The Colonie Center Mall faces competition from three regional malls described below that comprise approximately 3.2 million square feet of shop space. Four power centers that comprise approximately 2.2 million square feet are located within five miles of the property. With four established anchor tenants, two unique junior anchor tenants and a well-balanced mix of shop tenants, Colonie Center is one of the dominant, super-regional malls in its trade area. • The Stratford Square Mall faces competition from two super-regional shopping centers situated within Stratford Square Mall’s trade region. In addition, there are two smaller malls that compete to a lesser degree with Stratford. • The Tallahassee Mall faces competition from Governor’s Square Mall, which is a super-regional mall located approximately five miles southeast of the Tallahassee Mall. 15 Table of Contents • The Northgate Mall faces competition from three super-regional malls that comprise approximately 4.8 million square feet of shop space. Additional retail competition totals an additional 2.7 million square feet, including one power center. • The Golden Triangle Mall faces competition from two super-regional malls within 18 miles and two smaller malls that compete to a lesser degree with Golden Triangle. In addition, a new mixed-use development with a life style center is scheduled to open in 2009 and a new super-regional mall, scheduled to open in 2007, will be primary competitors. Any additional competitive properties that are developed close to our existing properties also may impact our ability to lease space to creditworthy tenants. Increased competition for tenants may require us to make capital improvements to properties that we would not have otherwise planned to make. Any unbudgeted capital improvements may negatively impact our financial position. Also, to the extent we are unable to renew leases or re-let space as leases expire, we could experience decreased cash flow from tenants and a reduction in the income produced by our properties. Excessive vacancies (and related reduced shopper traffic) at one of our properties may hurt sales of other tenants at that property and may discourage them from renewing leases. Our leases do not allow us to pass on all real estate related costs to our tenants and, if such costs increase, they could reduce our cash flow and funds available for distributions. Our properties and any properties we acquire in the future are and will be subject to operating risks common to real estate in general, any or all of which may negatively affect us. If any property is not fully occupied or if rents are being paid in an amount that is insufficient to cover operating expenses, we could be required to expend funds for that property’s operating expenses, including real estate and other taxes, utility costs, operating expenses, insurance costs, repair and maintenance costs and administrative expenses. To the extent we lease properties on a basis not requiring tenants to pay all or some of the expenses associated with the property, or if tenants fail to pay required expenses, we could be required to pay those costs, which could reduce our results of operations and cash flow. We may not be successful in identifying and consummating suitable acquisitions that meet our investment criteria, which may impede our long-term growth and negatively affect our long-term results of operations. Integral to our business strategy is continuing acquisitions of underperforming or distressed malls. Our ability to expand through acquisitions requires us to identify suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities that meet our investment criteria and are compatible with our growth strategy. We analyze potential acquisitions on a property-by-property and market-by-market basis. We may not be successful in identifying suitable acquisition candidates or investment opportunities or in consummating acquisitions or investments on satisfactory terms. Failures in identifying or consummating acquisitions could reduce the number of acquisitions we complete and slow our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to acquire properties on favorable terms may be adversely affected by the following significant risks: • competition from local investors and other real estate investors with significant capital, including other publicly traded REITs and institutional investment funds, that may significantly increase the purchase price of the property, which could reduce our profitability; • unsatisfactory completion of due diligence investigations and other customary closing conditions; • failure to finance an acquisition on favorable terms or at all; or • acquisitions of properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities such as liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination, claims by persons dealing with the former owners of the properties and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. 16 Table of Contents We may not be successful in integrating and operating acquired properties which could adversely affect our results of operations. We expect to make future acquisitions of underperforming or distressed malls. We will be required to integrate them into our existing portfolio. The acquired properties may turn out to be less compatible with our growth strategy than originally anticipated, may require expenditures of excessive time and cash to make necessary improvements or renovations and may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention away from our other operations, which could impair our results of operations as a whole. Uninsured losses or losses in excess of our insurance coverage could result in a loss of our investment, anticipated profits and cash flow from a property. We maintain comprehensive liability, fire, flood, earthquake, wind (as deemed necessary or as required by our lenders), extended coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to our properties with policy specifications, limits and deductibles customarily carried for similar properties. Certain types of losses, however, may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, such as losses due to riots, acts of war or terrorism. Should an uninsured loss occur, we could lose our investment in, as well as anticipated profits and cash flow from, a property. In addition, even if any such loss is insured, we may be required to pay a significant deductible on any claim for recovery of such a loss prior to our insurer being obligated to reimburse us for the loss, or the amount of the loss may exceed our coverage for the loss. Increases in taxes and regulatory compliance costs may reduce our revenue. Increases in income, service or other taxes generally are not passed through to tenants under leases and may reduce our net income, cash flow, financial condition and ability to pay or refinance our debt obligations and ability to make distributions to stockholders. Similarly, changes in laws increasing the potential liability for environmental conditions existing on properties or increasing the restrictions on discharges or other conditions may result in significant unanticipated expenditures, which could similarly adversely affect our business and results of operations. Joint venture investments could be subject to additional risks as a result of our lack of sole decision-making authority. We hold various capital interests in the Harrisburg Mall, Foothills Mall and Colonie Center Mall through joint ventures. We expect to selectively enter into additional joint ventures as part of our strategy. In the event that we enter into a joint venture, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Although major decisions affecting our current joint ventures are shared equally by us and our joint venture partners, some of the decision-making authority in other joint ventures may be vested exclusively with our joint venture partners or be subject to a majority vote of the joint venture partners. In addition, investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or co-venturers may have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives or which may have an adverse tax impact on us. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or co-venturers may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and efforts on our business. Consequently, actions by or disputes with partners or co-venturers might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. In addition, we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third party partners or co-venturers. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Any negative perceptions of the mall industry generally by the investing public may result in a decline in our stock price. We own and operate indoor malls and expect to continue to focus on acquiring, renovating and repositioning indoor malls in the future. Consequently, we are subject to risks inherent in investments in a single industry. To the extent that the investing public has a negative perception of indoor mall properties, the value of our common stock may be negatively impacted, which would result in our common stock trading at a discount below the inherent value of our assets as a whole. Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. Decreases in market rents, negative tax, real estate and zoning law changes and changes in environmental protection laws may also increase our costs, lower the value of our investments and decrease our income, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a property can be sold. There is no assurance that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a property, we may agree to transfer restrictions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These lockout provisions may restrict our ability to sell a property even if we deem it necessary or appropriate. We could incur significant costs related to environmental matters. Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, owners and operators of real estate may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous substances or other regulated materials on or in such property. These laws often impose strict liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous substances or materials. The presence of such hazardous substances or materials, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner’s or operator’s ability to lease, sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances or other regulated materials may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of such substances at a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or operated by such person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with asbestos-containing materials. Certain environmental laws also impose liability, without regard to knowledge or fault, for removal or remediation of hazardous substances or other regulated materials upon owners and operators of a contaminated property even after they no longer own or operate the property. Moreover, the past or present owner or operator from which a release emanates could be liable for any personal injuries or property damages that may result from such releases, as well as any damages to natural resources that may arise from such releases. The cost of investigation, remediation or removal of these substances may be substantial. Certain environmental laws impose compliance obligations on owners and operators of real property with respect to the management of hazardous materials and other regulated substances. For example, environmental laws govern the management of asbestos-containing materials and lead-based paint. Failure to comply with these laws can result in penalties or other sanctions. 18 Table of Contents Phase I Environmental Reports were completed more than two years ago in connection with our predecessor’s investments in the Harrisburg Mall and the Foothills Mall. Phase I Environmental Reports were completed for Stratford Square Mall, Colonie Center, Northgate Mall, Tallahassee Mall and Golden Triangle Mall. The Phase I Environmental Report for each of the properties did not reveal any existing material environmental conditions. Existing environmental reports with respect to any of our properties may not reveal (i) all environmental liabilities, (ii) that any prior owner or operator of our properties did not create any material environmental condition not known to us, or (iii) that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one or more of our properties. There also exists the risk that material environmental conditions, liabilities or compliance concerns may have arisen after the review was completed or may arise in the future. Finally, future laws, ordinances or regulations and future interpretations of existing laws, ordinances or regulations may impose additional material environmental liability. Costs associated with complying with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 may result in unanticipated expenses. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or ADA, all places of public accommodation are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These requirements became effective in 1992. A number of additional U.S. federal, state and local laws may also require modifications to our properties, or restrict certain further renovations of the properties, with respect to access thereto by disabled persons. Non-compliance with the ADA could result in the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants and also could result in an order to correct any non-complying feature, which could result in substantial capital expenditures. We have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance and we cannot predict the ultimate cost of compliance with the ADA or other legislation. If one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ADA or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the facility into compliance. If we incur substantial costs to comply with the ADA or other legislation, our financial condition, our results of operations, our cash flow, the per share trading price of our common stock and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to make distributions to our stockholders could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our management team received material benefits upon completion of the Company’s initial public offering, including an 11.7% equity stake in our Company which could allow them to exercise significant influence over matters submitted to our stockholders. Our management team received material benefits upon completion of the Company’s initial public offering, and holds an equity stake of 11.7% in our Company on a fully diluted basis as of May 31, 2007. Management’s equity stake includes 172,481 shares of common stock and 966,454 OP units being held by Larry Feldman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and his affiliates, 9,615 shares of common stock and 233,504 OP units being held by Jim Bourg, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, 9,615 shares of common stock and 233,504 OP units being held by Scott Jensen, our Senior Vice President of Leasing, and 9,615 shares of common stock and 76,923 shares of restricted stock (or other equity-based compensation of equivalent value) issued under the 2004 equity incentive plan held by Thomas Wirth, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Consequently, those stockholders, individually or to the extent their interests are aligned, collectively, may be able to influence the outcome of matters submitted for stockholder consideration, including the election of our board of directors, the approval of significant corporate transactions, including business combinations, consolidations and mergers, and the determination of our day-to-day corporate and management policies. Therefore, those stockholders have substantial influence over us and could exercise their influence in a manner that is not in the best interests of our other stockholders. 19 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest could arise as a result of our relationship with our operating partnership and the resolution of such conflicts may not be in our favor. Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and our operating partnership or any holder of OP units, on the other hand. For example, in connection with a proposed sale or refinancing of a property that has been contributed by a holder of OP units, that holder may have different and more adverse tax consequences with respect to that sale as compared to our stockholders. Our directors and officers have duties to our company and our stockholders under applicable Maryland law in connection with their management of our company. At the same time, we, through our wholly owned business trust subsidiary, as a general partner, have fiduciary duties to our operating partnership and to its limited partners under Delaware laws. To the extent that conflicts exist between the interests of our company and our stockholders, on the one hand, and our operating partnership and holders of OP units, on the other hand, the duties of our directors and officers to our company and to our stockholders may conflict with our duties as general partner to our operating partnership and its partners. The partnership agreement of our operating partnership does not require us to resolve such conflicts in favor of either our stockholders or the limited partners in our operating partnership. Unless otherwise provided for in the relevant partnership agreement, Delaware law generally requires a general partner of a Delaware limited partnership to adhere to fiduciary duty standards under which it owes its limited partners the highest duties of good faith, fairness and loyalty and which generally prohibit such general partner from taking any action or engaging in any transaction as to which it has a conflict of interest. Potential conflicts of interest exist between our directors and executive officers and our Company as described below. We entered into tax protection agreements with the contributors which may limit our ability to sell certain of our properties. Larry Feldman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jim Bourg, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer and Scott Jensen, our Senior Vice President of Leasing, have direct or indirect ownership interests in certain entities contributed to our operating partnership in the formation transactions. Accordingly, to the extent these individuals are parties to any of our contribution agreements, we may pursue less vigorous enforcement of the terms of these agreements. Additionally, the partnership agreement of our operating partnership expressly limits our liability by providing that neither we, our direct wholly owned business trust subsidiary, as the general partner of the operating partnership, nor any of our or their trustees, directors or officers, will be liable or accountable in damages to our operating partnership, the limited partners or assignees for errors in judgment, mistakes of fact or law or for any act or omission if we, or such trustee, director or officer, acted in good faith. In addition, our operating partnership is required to indemnify us, our affiliates and each of our respective trustees, officers, directors, employees and agents to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities (whether joint or several), expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys’ fees and other legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts arising from any and all claims, demands, actions, suits or proceedings, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, that relate to the operations of the operating partnership, provided that our operating partnership will not indemnify a person for (1) willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the law, (2) any transaction for which such person received an improper personal benefit in violation or breach of any provision of the partnership agreement or (3) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the person had reasonable cause to believe the act or omission was unlawful. The provisions of Delaware law that allow the common law fiduciary duties of a general partner to be modified by a partnership agreement have not been resolved in a court of law, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel covering the provisions set forth in the partnership agreement that purport to waive or restrict our fiduciary duties that would be in effect under common law were it not for the partnership agreement. 20 Table of Contents Conflicts of interest between management and our stockholders may arise that could impact potential dispositions. Members of our senior management team may suffer adverse tax consequences upon the sale or refinancing of our properties. Therefore, certain members of our senior management team may have different objectives than our stockholders regarding the pricing, timing and other material terms of any sale or refinancing of our properties. Our management’s right to receive OP units upon the achievement of certain performance thresholds relating to the Harrisburg Mall may cause them to devote a disproportionate amount of time to such performance thresholds, which could cause our overall operating performance to suffer. Feldman Partners, LLC (an entity controlled by Larry Feldman and owned by him and his family), Jim Bourg, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and Scott Jensen, our Senior Vice President of Leasing, acquired the right to receive additional OP units for ownership interests contributed by them as part of the formation transactions in connection with the initial public offering, only upon the achievement of the internal rate of return relating to the Harrisburg Mall. The aggregate value of the additional OP units that may be issued with respect to the Harrisburg Mall is equal to 50% of the amount, if any, that the internal rate of return achieved by us from the joint venture exceeds 15% on or prior to December 31, 2009. As a result, Larry Feldman, Jim Bourg and Scott Jensen may have an incentive to devote a disproportionately large amount of their time and a disproportionate amount of our resources to achieving these performance thresholds in comparison with our other objectives, which could harm our operating results. We may pursue less vigorous enforcement of terms of contribution, merger and other related agreements because of conflicts of interest with certain of our officers. Larry Feldman, Jim Bourg and Scott Jensen, who serve as directors and/or officers have direct or indirect ownership interests in certain entities that were contributed to our operating partnership in the formation transactions related to the initial public offering. We are entitled to indemnification and damages in the event of breaches of representations or warranties made by the contributors. We may choose not to enforce, or to enforce less vigorously, our rights under these contribution, merger and related agreements because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationships with the individuals party to these agreements. None of the contribution agreements was the result of arm’s-length negotiations and may not reflect terms comparable to those that could have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties. The contribution, merger and related agreements that were executed in connection with the formation transactions were not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis. As a consequence, these agreements may not reflect terms comparable to those that could have been obtained from unaffiliated third parties and, therefore, may not be as favorable to us as they may otherwise have been. Our organizational documents, including the stock ownership limit imposed by our charter, may inhibit market activity in our stock and could delay, defer or prevent a change in control transaction. Our charter authorizes our directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and, subject to certain exceptions, limits any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 9.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding common stock or 9.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding capital stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from the ownership limit. However, our board of directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose ownership, direct or indirect, in excess of 9.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding common stock or 9.0% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of our outstanding capital stock could jeopardize our status as a REIT. These restrictions on ownership will not apply if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. The ownership limit may delay, defer or prevent a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. 21 Table of Contents Certain provisions of Maryland law could inhibit changes in control. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of such shares. We are subject to the “business combination” provisions of the MGCL that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate or associate of ours who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of our then outstanding voting shares, or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations. However, we have, by resolution, exempted business combinations (1) between us and Larry Feldman, his affiliates and associates and people acting in concert with any of the foregoing and (2) between us and any person who has not otherwise become an interested stockholder, provided that such business combination is first approved by our board of directors (including a majority of our directors who are not affiliates or associates of such person), from the provisions of the Maryland Business Combination Act. Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the supermajority vote requirements will not apply to business combinations between us and any person described above. We have determined to opt out of the so-called “control share” provisions of the MGCL that provide that “control shares” of a Maryland corporation (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. We may in the future elect to become subject to the control share provisions of the MGCL. The “unsolicited takeover” provisions of the MGCL permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which (for example, a classified board) we do not yet have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for us or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company under the circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. Our board of directors has the power to issue additional shares of our stock in a manner that may not be in your best interests. Our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue additional authorized but unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and to increase the aggregate number of authorized shares or the number of shares of any class or series without stockholder approval. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Our board of directors could issue additional shares of our common stock or establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or other transaction that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. As of December 31, 2006, we have 186,844,938 authorized but unissued shares of common stock, 13,155,062 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, 50,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock and no shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. In addition, our charter eliminates our directors’ and officers’ liability to us and our stockholders for money damages except for liability resulting from actual receipt of an improper benefit in money, property or services or active and deliberate dishonesty established by a final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. Our bylaws require us to 22 Table of Contents indemnify our directors and officers for liability resulting from actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. In addition, we may be obligated to fund the defense costs incurred by our directors and officers. Our business could be harmed if key personnel with long standing business relationships in the real estate business terminate their employment with us. Our success depends, to a significant extent, on the continued services of Larry Feldman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and the other members of our senior management team. Although we will have an employment agreement with Larry Feldman and some other members of our senior management team, there is no guarantee that any of them will remain employed by us. We do not maintain key-person life insurance on any of our officers. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team, particularly Larry Feldman, could harm our business and our prospects. Risks Related to Our Organization and Operation as a REIT To maintain our REIT status, we may be forced to borrow funds on a short-term basis during unfavorable market conditions. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income each year, excluding net capital gains, and we will be subject to regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% non-deductible excise tax under certain circumstances if we fail to make sufficient and timely distributions of our taxable income. In order to maintain our REIT status and avoid the payment of income and excise taxes, we may need to borrow funds on a short-term basis to meet the REIT distribution requirements even if the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings. These short-term borrowing needs could result from a difference in timing between the actual receipt of cash and inclusion of income for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures, the creation of reserves or required debt or amortization payments. Distributions payable by REITs do not qualify for the reduced tax rates under recently enacted tax legislation. The maximum tax rate for dividends payable by domestic corporations to individual U.S. stockholders (as such term is defined under “U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations” below) has been reduced to 15% (through 2008). Distributions payable by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for the reduced rates (though distributions paid by a taxable REIT subsidiary or other corporation are generally eligible for the reduced rates). Consequently, the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause stockholders who are individuals to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common stock. In addition, the relative attractiveness of real estate in general may be adversely affected by the newly favorable tax treatment given to corporate dividends, which could negatively affect the value of our properties. Possible legislative or other actions affecting REITs could reduce our total return to our stockholders or cause us to terminate our REIT status. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department. Changes to tax laws (which may have retroactive application) could adversely affect our stockholders. It cannot be predicted whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws applicable to us or our stockholders will be changed. The power of our board of directors to revoke our REIT status without stockholder approval may cause adverse consequences to our stockholders. Our charter provides that our board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate our REIT election, without the approval of our stockholders, if it determines that it is no longer in our best 23 Table of Contents interests to continue to qualify as a REIT. If we cease to be a REIT, we would become subject to U.S. federal income tax on our taxable income and would no longer be required to distribute most of our taxable income to our stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to our stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, our distributions will not be deductible by us and we will be subject to corporate level tax on our taxable income. This would reduce the cash available to make distributions to our stockholders and may have significant adverse consequences on the value of our stock. We operate in a manner that will allow us to elect to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes under the Internal Revenue Code. If we fail to qualify as a REIT or lose our status as a REIT at any time, we will face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to shareholders for each of the years involved because: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to U.S. federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we also could be subject to the U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for the four taxable years following a year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to stockholders, and all distributions to stockholders will be subject to tax as regular corporate dividends to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that our stockholders who are taxed as individuals would be taxed on our distributions at capital gains rates, and our corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to deductions with respect to such distributions, subject, in each case, to applicable limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT also could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable Treasury regulations that have been promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code is greater in the case of a REIT that, like us, holds its assets through a partnership. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the composition of our assets and sources of our gross income. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding capital gains. In addition, legislation, new regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may adversely affect our investors, our ability to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or the desirability of an investment in a REIT relative to other investments. We will pay some taxes which will reduce the amount of funds available to make distributions to our stockholders. Even though we qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be required to pay some U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. We elected that Feldman Equities Management, Inc. and certain corporations that held small interests in the Foothills Mall, be treated as a “taxable REIT subsidiary” of our company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A taxable REIT subsidiary is a fully taxable corporation and may be limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to us. In addition, we will be subject to a 100% penalty tax on certain amounts if the economic arrangements among our tenants, our taxable REIT subsidiaries and us are not comparable to similar arrangements among unrelated parties or if we receive payments for inventory or property held for sale to tenants in the ordinary course of business. To the extent that we or our taxable REIT subsidiaries (or additional taxable REIT subsidiaries we may form in the future) are required to pay U.S. federal, state or local taxes, we will have less cash available for distribution to stockholders. 24 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Debt Financings Required payments of principal and interest on borrowings may leave us with insufficient cash to operate our properties or to pay the distributions currently contemplated or necessary to maintain our qualification as a REIT and may expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $230.9 million of outstanding indebtedness in our consolidated subsidiaries, 100% of which is secured. We expect to incur additional debt in connection with future acquisitions. We may borrow under our secured line of credit or borrow new funds to acquire these future properties. Further, we may need to borrow funds to make distributions required to maintain our REIT status or to meet our expected distributions. If we are required to utilize our line of credit for purposes other than acquisition activity, this will reduce the amount available for acquisitions and could slow our growth. Limitations on our level of debt and the limitations imposed on us by our debt agreements could have significant adverse consequences, including the following: • our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; • we may be unable to borrow additional funds as needed or on favorable terms, including to make acquisitions or distributions required to maintain our REIT status; • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or the refinancing terms may be less favorable than the terms of our original indebtedness; • an increase in interest rates could materially increase our interest expense; • we may be forced to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on disadvantageous terms; • after debt service, the amount available for distributions to our stockholders is reduced; • our debt level could place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with less debt; • we may experience increased vulnerability to economic and industry downturns, reducing our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions; • we may default on our obligations and the lenders or mortgagees may foreclose on our properties that secure their loans and receive an assignment of rents and leases; • we may violate restrictive covenants in our loan documents, which would entitle the lenders to accelerate our debt obligations; and • our default under any one of our mortgage loans with cross-default or cross-collateralization provisions could result in default on other indebtedness or result in the foreclosures of other properties. Our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of indebtedness we may incur, and our cash flow and ability to make distributions could be adversely affected if we become highly leveraged. Our organizational documents contain no limitations on the amount of indebtedness that we or our operating partnership may incur. As of December 31, 2006, we had approximately $230.9 million of outstanding indebtedness. We could alter the balance between our total outstanding indebtedness and the value of our portfolio at any time. If we become more highly leveraged, then the resulting increase in debt service could adversely affect our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness and to pay our anticipated distributions and/or the distributions required to maintain our REIT status, and could harm our financial condition. Increases in interest rates may increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow and impair our ability to service our indebtedness and make distributions to our stockholders. We had approximately $230.9 million of outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2006, of which $155.9 million bears interest at fixed rates ranging from 5.15% to 8.70% and $75.0 million bears interest on a floating rate basis at LIBOR plus 1.25%. Upon the maturity of our debt, there is a market rate risk as to the prevailing rates at the time of refinancing. Changes in market rates on our fixed-rate debt affects the fair market 25 Table of Contents value of our debt but it has no impact on interest expense incurred or cash flow. A 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates on our floating/fixed rate debt would increase or decrease our annual interest expense by approximately $2.3 million, as the case may be. In addition to the fixed rate debt outlined above, we have entered into cash flow hedges that will effectively fix the rate for $75.0 million of LIBOR-based floating rate debt at 5.0% per annum through January 2008 and at 4.91% per annum for the period February 2008 to January 2011. Our cash flow is not assured. If our cash flow is reduced, we may not be able to make distributions to our stockholders. We intend to distribute to our stockholders all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income each year in order to comply with the distribution requirements of the federal tax laws and to avoid federal income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level. Our ability to make distributions may be adversely affected by the risks described in this Form 10-K. All distributions will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our earnings, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT status and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant from time to time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to make distributions in the future. Our ability to make distributions is based on many factors, including efficient management of our properties. The Harrisburg Mall joint venture’s construction loan with Commerce Bank provides that loan advances are reduced by the amount of the joint venture’s net cash flow after operating expenses and debt service. As a result, the joint venture will not have cash from operations to distribute to the joint venture partners during the period that it is taking advances under this loan because any net cash flow will be used in lieu of the advances. The construction loan with Commerce Bank was amended and the maturity date extended to March 2008. As a result, our net cash provided by operations may, during the term of this loan, be reduced by the limitation on our joint venture’s ability to pay distributions to us and our operating partnership. We also cannot assure you that the level of our distributions will continue or increase over time or the receipt of rental revenue in connection with future acquisitions of properties will increase our cash available for distribution to stockholders. In the event of defaults or lease terminations by our tenants, rental payments could decrease or cease, which would result in a reduction in cash available for distribution to our stockholders. If our cash available for distributions generated by our assets is less than our expected dividend distributions, or if such cash available for distribution decreases in future periods from expected levels, our ability to make the expected distributions would be adversely affected. We may be required either to fund future distributions from borrowings under our line of credit or to reduce such distributions. If we need to borrow funds on a regular basis to meet our distribution requirements or if we reduce the amount of our distribution or fail to make expected distributions, our stock price may decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2006, we did not have any unresolved comments with the staff of the SEC. 26 Table of Contents 