Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Operations and the Brazilian Power Industry We are subject to comprehensive regulation of our business, which fundamentally affects our financial performance. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by various Brazilian regulatory authorities, particularly the National Electric Energy Agency (Agência Nacional de Energia Elétrica), or ANEEL. ANEEL regulates and oversees various aspects of our business and establishes our tariffs. If we are obligated by ANEEL to make additional and unexpected capital investments and are not allowed to adjust our tariffs accordingly, if ANEEL does not authorize the recovery of all costs or if ANEEL modifies the regulations related to tariff adjustments, we may be adversely affected. In addition, both the implementation of our strategy for growth and our ordinary business may be adversely affected by governmental actions such as changes to current legislation, the termination of federal and state concession programs, creation of more rigid criteria for qualification in public energy auctions, or a delay in the revision and implementation of new annual tariffs. 6 Table of Contents If regulatory changes require us to conduct our business in a manner substantially different from our current operations, our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. The regulatory framework under which we operate is subject to legal challenge. The Brazilian government implemented fundamental changes in the regulation of the power industry in legislation passed in 2004 known as the Lei do Novo Modelo do Setor Elétrico, or New Industry Model Law. Challenges to the constitutionality of the New Industry Model Law are still pending before the Brazilian Federal Supreme Court (Supremo Tribunal Federal). If all or part of the New Industry Model Law were held to be unconstitutional, there would be uncertain consequences for the validity of existing regulation and the further development of the regulatory framework. The outcome of the legal proceedings is difficult to predict, but it could have an adverse impact on the entire energy sector, including our business and results of operations. We are uncertain as to the renewal of our concessions and authorizations. We carry out our generation, transmission and distribution activities pursuant to concession agreements entered into with the Brazilian government. Our concessions range in duration from 16 to 35 years. The Brazilian constitution requires that all concessions relating to public services be awarded through public tender. Under laws and regulations specific to the electric energy sector, the Brazilian government may renew existing concessions for an additional period of up to 20 or 30 years, depending on the nature of the concession, without public tender, provided that the concessionaire has met minimum performance standards and that the proposal is otherwise acceptable to the Brazilian government. The Brazilian government has considerable discretion under Law No. 8,987/95, or the Concession Law, and under concession contracts with respect to renewal of concessions. The first of our distribution concessions due to expire are those held by our distribution subsidiaries CPFL Santa Cruz, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Mococa, CPFL Leste Paulista and CPFL Sul Paulista, which were originally granted in 1999 for a 16‑year term that is due to expire in July 2015. Law No. 12,783/13 of 2013 provided that existing distribution concessions such as those held by CPFL Santa Cruz, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Mococa, CPFL Leste Paulista and CPFL Sul Paulista could be renewed, subject to certain conditions, for a further term of up to 30 years. Accordingly, in 2014 we applied for renewal of those concessions in time for the renewal date of July 2015. On March 31, 2015, however, before we had received a response from the authorities to these requests for renewal, it was reported that a federal court in Brasília had issued a decision in a case commenced by the Brazilian public prosecutor against ANEEL and the Brazilian federal government stating that distribution concessions, particularly those that have already been renewed in the past, may not be automatically renewed without certain requirements being met. Since we are not a party to this litigation, and we understand it may be subject to appeal, we are currently unable to predict its effect on our requests for renewal of these concessions. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—Our Concessions and Authorizations—Concessions”. We cannot give any assurance that the concessions expiring in July 2015 will be renewed, or whether the financial conditions of any renewed or new concessions will be acceptable. If these or any of our concessions are not renewed, or if they are renewed subject to conditions that are unfavorable to us, our revenues could be adversely affected. The tariffs that we charge for sales of electricity to Captive Consumers and the tariffs for using the distribution system that we charge to Free and Special Consumers are determined by ANEEL pursuant to concession agreements with the Brazilian government, so our operating revenues could be adversely affected if ANEEL makes decisions relating to our tariffs that are not favorable to us. ANEEL has substantial discretion to establish the tariff rates our distribution companies charge our consumers. Our tariffs are determined pursuant to concession agreements with the Brazilian government, and in accordance with ANEEL’s regulations and decisions. Our concession agreements and Brazilian law establish a mechanism that permits three types of tariff adjustments: (i) annual adjustment (reajuste tarifário annual), or RTA, (ii) periodic revision (revisão tarifária periódica), or RTP, and (iii) extraordinary revision (revisão tarifária extraordinária), or RTE. We are entitled to apply each year for the annual adjustment, which is designed to offset some effects of inflation on tariffs and pass through to consumers certain changes in our cost structure that are beyond our control, such as the cost of electricity we purchase and certain regulatory charges, including charges for the use of transmission and distribution facilities. In addition, ANEEL carries out a periodic revision every four or five years that is aimed at identifying variations in our costs as well as setting a factor based on our operational efficiency that will be applied against the index of our ongoing annual tariff adjustments, the objective of which is to share any related gains with our consumers. We are also subject to extraordinary revision of our tariffs that may negatively affect our results of operations or financial position. 7 Table of Contents We cannot be sure if ANEEL will establish tariffs at rates that are favorable to us, due to changes in the methods used by ANEEL in calculating the periodic revision adjustments. The methodology set by ANEEL for the 2011-2014 periodic revision cycle under Resolution No. 457/2011 negatively impacted our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, to the extent that any of these adjustments are not granted by ANEEL in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The methodology to be applied in the 2015-2018 periodic revision cycle is currently subject to public consultation, which is expected to be concluded during the first half of 2015. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Background—Periodic Revisions—RTP”. We could be penalized by ANEEL for failing to comply with the terms of our concession agreements, which could result in fines, other penalties and, depending on the gravity of the non‑compliance, in our concessions being terminated. ANEEL may impose penalties on us in the event that we fail to comply with any provision of our concession agreements. Depending on the gravity of the non‑compliance, these penalties could include the following: · warning notices; · fines per breach of up to 2.0% of the revenues from the concession in the financial year prior to the date of the breach; · injunctions related to the construction of new facilities and equipment; · restrictions on the operation of existing facilities and equipment; · intervention by ANEEL in the management of the concessionaire; and · termination of the concession. In addition, the Brazilian government has the power to terminate any of our concessions by means of expropriation for reasons related to the public interest. We are currently in compliance with all of the material terms of our concession agreements. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be penalized by ANEEL for breaching our concession agreements or that our concessions will not be terminated in the future. The compensation to which we are entitled upon expiration or early termination of our concessions may not be sufficient for us to realize the full value of certain assets. In addition, if any of our concession agreements is terminated for reasons attributable to us, the effective amount of compensation by the granting authorities could be materially reduced through the imposition of fines or other penalties. Accordingly, the imposition of fines or penalties on us or the termination of any of our concessions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to fully pass through the costs of our electricity purchases and, to meet demand, we could be forced to purchase electricity in the spot market at prices substantially higher than under our long‑term purchase agreements. Under the New Industry Model Law, an electricity distributor must contract in advance, through public bids, for 100% of its forecast electricity needs for its distribution concession areas, and is authorized to pass up to 105% of this electricity on to consumers. Over‑ or under‑forecasting demand can have adverse consequences. If our forecast demand is incorrect and we purchase less or more electricity than we need, we may be prevented from fully passing through the costs of our electricity purchases and we may also be forced to enter into the spot market to purchase or sell electricity at prices substantially higher or lower than under our long‑term purchase agreements. For instance, the New Industry Model Law provides, among other restrictions, that if our forecasts fall significantly short of actual electricity demand, we may be forced to make up the shortfall in the spot market. Our forecast electricity demand may prove inaccurate, including as a result of consumers moving between the different markets (regulated and free). If there are significant variations between our electricity needs and the volume of our electricity purchases, our results of operations may be adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—The Brazilian Power Industry—The New Industry Model Law”. 8 Table of Contents We may not be able to buy electricity in the amount we need to meet our sales agreements in the free market, which may lead us to be exposed to the spot market at prices substantially higher than under our long term agreements. On August 2, 2012, the MME enacted Act. No. 455, under which ex post energy volume adjustment has been prohibited since June 1, 2014, and the parties will have to register ex ante with the Electric Energy Trading Chamber (Câmara de Comercialização de Energia Elétrica), or CCEE, their expected consumption volume, except when the parties have specifically indicated that the relevant agreement is linked to the effective consumption volume. However, the Brazilian Association of Electricity Traders (ABRACEEL) obtained an injunction against Act 455/2012, preventing the implementation of the ex ante contract registration rule to energy traders. The application of this Act in the CCEE has been suspended for all agents (Generators, Traders and Free Consumers), since it may not apply only to a specific group of agents. This Act applies only to the Free Market and does not affect distributors. Under this system, if the injunction is lifted, and if our projected energy volume is incorrect and we purchase less or more electricity than we need, we would no longer be able to adjust for our exposure to the energy volume purchased. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—The New Industry Model Law—Recent Developments in the Free Market”. We generate a significant portion of our operating revenues from consumers that are allowed to seek alternative electricity suppliers. We may face other types of competition that could adversely affect our market share and revenues. Within our concession areas, other electricity suppliers are permitted to compete with us in offering electricity to certain consumers that qualify as Free Consumers, to whom our distribution subsidiaries may supply electricity only at regulated tariffs. These consumers qualified as Free Consumers may elect to opt out of our regulated distribution system upon the expiration of their contracts with us by providing six months’ prior notice, following which they may only return upon five years’ prior notice. At December 31, 2014, we supplied energy to 46 Free Consumers, which accounted for approximately 1.5% of our net operating revenues of our Distribution segment, and approximately 2.5% of the total volume of electricity sold by our Distribution segment during 2014. In addition, other consumers meeting certain criteria may become Free Consumers, for example Special Customers who may move to energy from renewable energy sources, such as Small Hydroelectric Power Plants, or SHPPs, wind power or biomass. At December 31, 2014 we had a total of 1,649 consumers who could choose their supplier, or Potentially Free Consumers. Potentially Free Consumers accounted for approximately 9.0% of the net operating revenues of our Distribution segment, and approximately 12.7% of the total volume of electricity sold by our Distribution segment during 2014. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—The New Industry Model Law—The Free Market”. Additionally, it is possible that our large industrial clients could be authorized by ANEEL to generate electric energy for their own consumption or sale to other parties, in which case they may obtain an authorization or concession for the generation of electric power in a given area, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operating results depend on prevailing hydrological conditions. Poor hydrological conditions may affect our results of operations. We are dependent on the prevailing hydrological conditions in Brazil, the country in which we operate. In 2014, according to data from the National Electrical System Operator (Operador Nacional do Sistema Elétrico), or ONS, approximately 73% of Brazil’s electricity supply came from Hydroelectric Power Plants. 9 Table of Contents Brazil is subject to unpredictable hydrological conditions, with non‑cyclical deviations from average rainfall. In order to compensate for poor hydrological conditions and to maintain security levels in reservoirs and the electricity supply level, the ONS may dispatch Thermoelectric Power Plants, including those operated by us. The replacement of hydroelectric generation with thermoelectric generation may lead to adverse results in our Generation segment since Hydroelectric Power Plants, including those operated by us, may receive an amount of energy lower than their Assured Energy in the Energy Reallocation Mechanism (Mecanismo de Realocação de Energia), or MRE. This deficit of energy, called the Generation Scaling Factor, or GSF, will represent an expense valued at the electricity spot price, exposing the operator of the Hydroelectric Power Plants to spot price risk. In the Distribution segment, thermoelectric generation can lead to additional costs with energy purchase, when ONS dispatches Thermoelectric Power Plants by merit order, and extraordinary charges, such as a component of the System Service Charge (Encargo de Serviço do Sistema), the ESS, related to energy security, the ESS-SE, when these power plants are dispatched out of the merit order. These additional costs are ultimately passed through by the distributor to consumers through tariff increases in future annual adjustments or periodic reviews, as permitted by regulation. However, there may be a cash flow mismatch in the intervening period, since these costs must be covered immediately, while the tariffs are only readjusted later. For more information, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—The Brazilian Power Industry—Regulatory Charges—ESS”. In January 2015, the electricity sector began to implement a mechanism of monthly “tariff flags” under which consumer invoices may be subject to tariff additions on a monthly basis when energy supply costs reach certain levels, enabling consumers to adapt their usage to current energy costs. Revenues collected under the tariff flag system are repaid to distribution companies on the basis of their relative energy cost for the period. Due to the poor hydrological conditions that have been observed since 2013, red tariff flags have been applied since introduction of this system in January 2015. Although this mechanism mitigates the cash flow mismatch in part, it may be insufficient to cover the thermoelectric energy supply costs, and distributors still bear the risk of cash flow mismatches in the short term. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—The Brazilian Power Industry—Basis of Calculation of Distribution Tariffs”. The impact of an electricity shortage and related electricity rationing, as in 2001 and 2002, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Periods of severe or sustained below‑average rainfall resulting in an electricity shortage may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For example, during the low rainfall period of 2000 and 2001, the Brazilian government instituted the Rationing Program, a program to reduce electricity consumption that was in effect from June 1, 2001 to February 28, 2002. The Rationing Program established limits for energy consumption for industrial, commercial and residential consumers, with reductions in consumption ranging from 15% to 25%. If Brazil experiences another electricity shortage (a condition which might happen and we are not able to control or anticipate), the Brazilian government may implement similar or other policies in the future to address the shortage. For example, electricity conservation programs, including mandated reductions in electricity consumption, could be implemented if poor hydrological conditions cannot be offset in practice by other energy sources, such as Thermoelectric Power Plants, thereby resulting in a low supply of electricity to the Brazilian market. We are uncertain as to the review of our Hydroelectric Power Plants’ Assured Energy. Decree No. 2,655 of July 2, 1998 established that the Assured Energy of generation power plants would be revised every five years. As part of these revisions, the Brazilian Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME) can revise a company’s Assured Energy, limited to a maximum change of 5% per revision or 10% over the entire period of the concession agreement. In addition to these periodic revisions, it is still unclear when the effects of the first revision are expected to take place for all Hydroelectric Power Plants (with the exception of SHPPs), since Portaria No. 681 of December 30, 2014 provided that all Assured Energy values will remain unchanged until December 31, 2015 and did not set a date for the change. We cannot be certain whether the MME will make any revisions to our Assured Energy, either under the periodic revision cycle or under this extraordinary revision, and if so whether it will increase or decrease our Assured Energy. If our Assured Energy is decreased, our ability to supply electricity under our power purchase agreements, or PPAs, would be adversely affected, which could lead to a decrease in our revenues and increase our costs if our generation subsidiaries are required to purchase power elsewhere. See “Item 4—Principal Regulatory Authorities—Ministry of Mines and Energy - MME”. 10 Table of Contents Construction, expansion and operation of our electricity generation, transmission and distribution facilities and equipment involve significant risks that could lead to lost revenues or increased expenses. The construction, expansion and operation of facilities and equipment for the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity involve many risks, including: · the inability to obtain required governmental permits and approvals; · the unavailability of equipment; · supply interruptions; · work stoppages; · labor unrest; · social unrest; · weather and hydrological interferences; · unforeseen engineering and environmental problems; · increases in electricity losses, including technical and commercial losses; · construction and operational delays, or unanticipated cost overruns; · the inability to win electricity auctions promoted by ANEEL; and · unavailability of adequate funding. If we experience these or other problems, we may not be able to generate or distribute electricity in amounts consistent with our projections, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental and health regulations that may become more stringent in the future and may result in increased liabilities and increased capital expenditures. Our activities are subject to comprehensive federal, state and municipal legislation as well as regulation and supervision by Brazilian governmental agencies that are responsible for the implementation of environmental and health laws and policies. These agencies could take enforcement action against us for our failure to comply with their regulations. These actions could include, among other things, the imposition of fines and revocation of licenses. It is possible that enhanced environmental and health regulations will force us to allocate capital expenditures to compliance, and consequently, divert funds from planned investments. Such a diversion could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to complete our proposed capital expenditure program in a timely manner, the operation and development of our business may be adversely affected. We plan to invest approximately R$2,121 million in our generation activities (R$2,058 million in renewable sources and R$62 million in conventional sources), R$6,413 million in our distribution activities and R$395 million in our commercialization and services activities during the period from 2015 through 2019. Our ability to carry out this capital expenditure program depends on a variety of factors, including our ability to charge adequate tariffs for our services, our access to domestic and international capital markets and a variety of operating, regulatory and other contingencies. We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources to complete our proposed capital expenditure program, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the operation and development of our business. 11 Table of Contents We are strictly liable for any damages resulting from inadequate provision of electricity services, and our contracted insurance policies may not fully cover such damages. Under Brazilian law, we are strictly liable for direct and indirect damages resulting from the inadequate provision of electricity distribution services. In addition, our distribution facilities may, together with our generation utilities, be held liable for damages caused to others as a result of interruptions or disturbances arising from the generation, transmission or distribution systems, whenever these interruptions or disturbances are not attributed to an identifiable member of the ONS. We cannot assure you that our contracted insurance policies will fully cover damages resulting from inadequate rendering of electricity services, which may have an adverse effect on us. We may not be able to create the expected benefits and return on investments from our renewable energy generation businesses. Through our subsidiary CPFL Renováveis we have made substantial capital investments in generation businesses other than hydro power, principally wind and biomass. These renewable generation businesses are dependent on certain factors that are not within our control and may significantly affect these businesses. In the biomass business, we may suffer from market shortages of sugar cane, a necessary input for biomass generation. In addition, we depend to a certain extent on the performance of our partners in the operation of biomass plants. The operation of wind farms involves significant uncertainties and risks, including financial risk associated with the difference between the energy we generate and the energy contracted through the public energy auctions. These financial risks are principally: (i) lower wind intensity and duration than that contemplated in the study phase of the project; (ii) any delay in commencement of a wind farm’s operations; and (iii) unavailability of wind turbines at levels above the performance benchmarks. If these generation plants are not able to generate the energy we have contracted to supply, we may be obliged to buy the shortfall in the spot market. Spot market prices are volatile and may be higher than the price at which our renewable energy subsidiaries have contracted to sell energy, which would increase our costs and lead to losses in this segment. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—The Brazilian Power Industry—The New Industry Model Law”. We are controlled by a few shareholders acting together, and their interests could conflict with yours. As of December 31, 2014, ESC Energia S.A., or ESC, PREVI (through BB Carteira Livre I FIA) and Energia São Paulo Fundo de Investimento em Ações, or Energia São Paulo FIA/Bonaire Participações S.A., owned 24.33%, 29.99% and 14.87%, respectively, of our outstanding common shares. Bonaire Participações S.A., or Bonaire, is a holding company controlled by Energia São Paulo Fundo de Investimento em Ações. These entities are parties to a shareholders’ agreement, pursuant to which they share the power to control us. Our controlling shareholders may take actions that could be contrary to your interests, and our controlling shareholders will be able to prevent other shareholders, including you, from blocking these actions. In particular, our controlling shareholders control the outcome of decisions at shareholders’ meetings, and they can elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors. Our controlling shareholders can direct our actions in areas such as business strategy, financing, distributions, acquisitions and dispositions of assets or businesses. Their decisions on these matters may be contrary to the expectations or preferences of our non-controlling shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Shareholders’ Agreement”. We are exposed to increases in prevailing market interest rates as well as foreign exchange rate risk. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 82.0% of our total indebtedness was denominated in reais and indexed to Brazilian money‑market rates or inflation rates, or bore interest at floating rates. The remaining 18.0% of our total indebtedness was denominated in U.S. dollars and substantially subject to currency swaps that converted these obligations into reais. In addition, the costs of electricity purchased from the Itaipu Power Plant, or Itaipu, are indexed to the U.S. dollar exchange variation. Our tariffs are adjusted annually in order to contemplate the losses or gains from such electricity acquisition. Accordingly, if these indexation rates rise or the U.S. dollar/real exchange rates appreciate, our financing expenses will increase. 12 Table of Contents Our indebtedness and debt service obligations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and make payments on our debt. As of December 31, 2014, we had a debt of R$19,150 million. Our indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay when due the principal, interest or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. In addition, we may incur additional debt from time to time to finance strategic acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions applicable under our existing indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage would increase. We may acquire other companies in the electricity business, as we have in the past, and these acquisitions could increase our leverage or adversely affect our consolidated performance. We regularly analyze opportunities to acquire other companies engaged in activities along the entire electricity generation, transmission and distribution chain. If we do acquire other electricity companies, this could increase our leverage or reduce our profitability. Furthermore, we may not be able to integrate the acquired company’s activities and achieve the economies of scale and expected efficiency gains that often drive such acquisitions. Any such failure could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. This involvement, as well as Brazilian political and economic conditions, could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our ADSs and our common shares. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policy and regulations. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and other policies and regulations have often involved, among other measures, increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in policy or regulations at the federal, state or municipal levels involving or affecting factors such as: · interest rates; · monetary policy; · currency fluctuations; · inflation; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; · tax policies; · changes in labor laws; · regulatory environment of our sector; · exchange rates and exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad, such as those that were briefly imposed in 1989 and early 1990; and · other political, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. We cannot assure you that the Brazilian government will continue with the current economic policies, or that any changes implemented by the Brazilian government will not, directly or indirectly, affect our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Political conditions may have an adverse impact on the Brazilian economy and on our business. Current political conditions in Brazil may affect the confidence of investors and the public in general as well as the development of the economy. Uncertainty with regard to matters such as the presidential administration’s future policies and appointments to influential governmental positions and ongoing investigations into allegations of corruption in state-controlled enterprises may also affect the confidence of investors and the general public. It may also have an adverse impact on the Brazilian economy, our business, financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common shares and ADSs. Exchange rate instability may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. The Brazilian currency has experienced frequent and substantial variations in relation to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies over the last decade. On December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, the exchange rate of the real against the U.S. dollar was R$2.044, R$2.343 and R$2.656 per US$1.00, respectively. On April 13, 2015, the exchange rate was R$3.101 per US$1.00. The real may further depreciate against the U.S. dollar in the future. Depreciation of the real increases the cost of servicing our foreign currency denominated debt and the cost of purchasing electricity from the Itaipu power plant, a Hydroelectric Power Plant that is one of our major suppliers and that adjusts electricity prices based in part on its U.S. dollar costs. Depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar could create inflationary pressures in Brazil and cause increases in interest rates, which could negatively affect the growth of the Brazilian economy as a whole and harm our financial condition and results of operations, curtail access to foreign financial markets and may prompt government intervention, including recessionary governmental policies. Depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar can also lead to decreased consumer spending, deflationary pressures and reduced growth in the economy as a whole. On the other hand, appreciation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies could lead to a deterioration of the Brazilian foreign exchange current account, as well as dampen export‑driven growth. Depending on the circumstances, either depreciation or appreciation of the real could materially and adversely affect the growth of the Brazilian economy and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Depreciation of the real also reduces the U.S. dollar value of distributions and dividends on the ADSs and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our common shares and, as a result, the ADSs. Government efforts to combat inflation may hinder the growth of the Brazilian economy and could harm our business. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation and has therefore followed monetary policies that have resulted in one of the highest real interest rates in the world. Between 2006 and 2014, the base interest rate in Brazil, or SELIC, varied between 7.25% p.a. and 17.25% p.a., reaching its lowest level (7.25%) at the end of 2012. On April 13, 2015, the SELIC rate was 12.65% p.a.. Inflation and the Brazilian government’s measures to fight it, principally through the Brazilian Central Bank, have had and may in the future have significant effects on the Brazilian economy and our business. Tight monetary policies with high interest rates may restrict Brazil’s growth and the availability of credit. Conversely, more lenient government and Brazilian Central Bank policies and interest rate decreases may trigger increases in inflation, and, consequently, volatility in growth and the need for sudden and significant interest rate increases, which could negatively affect our business. In addition, if Brazil again experiences high inflation, we may not be able to adjust the rates we charge our consumers to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structure. Developments and the perception of risk in other countries, including the United States and emerging market countries, may adversely affect the market price of Brazilian securities, including our ADSs and our common shares. The market value of securities of Brazilian issuers is affected by economic and market conditions in other countries, including the United States, the European Union and emerging market countries. The global financial crisis that commenced in 2008 led to significant consequences, including stock and credit market volatility, unavailability of credit, higher interest rates, a general economic slowdown, volatile exchange rates and inflationary pressure. Global recovery from this crisis has been slower than expected in recent years, with the largest emerging economies of China, Brazil and India posting weaker than expected results and the European Union is continuing to experience weak GDP growth, although the United States posted GDP growth of approximately 3.0% in 2014. Although economic conditions in other countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, investor reactions to developments in those countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Crises in the United States, the European Union or emerging market countries may diminish investor interest in securities of Brazilian issuers, including ours. This could adversely affect the trading price of the ADSs or our common shares, and could also make it more difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms or at all. 14 Table of Contents Risks Relating to the ADSs and Our Common Shares Holders of our ADSs do not have the same voting rights as our shareholders. Holders of our ADSs do not have the same voting rights as holders of our shares. Holders of our ADSs are entitled to the contractual rights set forth for their benefit under the deposit agreements. ADS holders exercise voting rights by providing instructions to the depositary, as opposed to voting at shareholders’ meetings or by proxy. In practice, the ability of a holder of ADSs to instruct the depositary as to voting will depend on the timing and procedures for providing instructions to the depositary, either directly or through the holder’s custodian and clearing system. If you surrender your ADSs and withdraw common shares, you risk losing the ability to remit foreign currency abroad and certain Brazilian tax advantages. As an ADS holder, you benefit from the electronic certificate of foreign capital registration obtained by the custodian for our common shares underlying the ADSs in Brazil, which permits the custodian to convert dividends and other distributions with respect to the common shares into non‑Brazilian currency and remit the proceeds abroad. If you surrender your ADSs and withdraw common shares, you will be entitled to continue to rely on the custodian’s electronic certificate of foreign capital registration for only five business days from the date of withdrawal. Thereafter, upon the disposition of or distributions relating to the common shares, you will not be able to remit abroad non‑Brazilian currency unless you obtain your own electronic certificate of foreign capital registration or you qualify under Brazilian foreign investment regulations that entitle some foreign investors to buy and sell shares on Brazilian stock exchanges without obtaining separate electronic certificates of foreign capital registration. If you do not qualify under the foreign investment regulations you will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment of dividends and distributions on, and the proceeds from any sale of, our common shares. If you attempt to obtain your own electronic certificate of foreign capital registration, you may incur expenses or suffer delays in the application process, which could delay your ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to our common shares or the return of your capital in a timely manner. The depositary’s electronic certificate of foreign capital registration may also be adversely affected by future legislative changes. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to our common shares. We may not be able to offer our common shares to U.S. holders of ADSs pursuant to preemptive rights granted to holders of our common shares in connection with any future issuance of our common shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such common shares and preemptive rights, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement relating to preemptive rights with respect to our common shares, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. If such a registration statement is not filed and an exemption from registration does not exist, Citibank N.A., as depositary, will attempt to sell the preemptive rights, and you will be entitled to receive the proceeds of such sale. However, these preemptive rights will expire if the depositary does not sell them, and U.S. holders of ADSs will not realize any value from the granting of such preemptive rights. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may substantially limit your ability to sell the common shares underlying the ADSs at the price and time you desire. Investing in securities that trade in emerging markets, such as Brazil, often involves greater risk than investing in securities of issuers in the United States, and such investments are generally considered to be more speculative in nature. The Brazilian securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and can be more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. Accordingly, although you are entitled to withdraw the common shares underlying the ADSs from the depositary at any time, your ability to sell the common shares underlying the ADSs at a price and time at which you wish to do so may be substantially limited. There is also significantly greater concentration in the Brazilian securities market than in major securities markets in the United States. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented 50.7% of the aggregate market capitalization of the BM&FBOVESPA S.A. ‑ Bolsa de Valores, Mercadorias & Futuros, or BM&FBOVESPA, as of December 31, 2014. The top ten stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for 46.3%, 41.3% and 43.0% of all shares traded on the BM&FBOVESPA in 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. 15 Table of Contents 