RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Operations and the Brazilian Power Industry We are subject to comprehensive regulation of our business, which fundamentally affects our financial performance. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by various Brazilian regulatory authorities, particularly the National Electric Energy Agency, Agência Nacional de Energia Elétrica (“ANEEL”). ANEEL regulates and oversees various aspects of our business and establishes our tariffs. If we are obliged by ANEEL to make additional and unexpected capital investments and are not allowed to adjust our tariffs accordingly, or if ANEEL modifies the regulations related to such adjustment, we may be adversely affected. In addition, the implementation of our strategy for growth, as well as the ordinary carrying out of our business may be adversely affected by governmental actions such as changes to current legislation, the termination of federal and state concession programs, creation of more rigid criteria for qualification in public energy auctions, or a delay in the revision and implementation of new annual tariffs. If we are required to conduct our business in a manner substantially different from our current operations as a result of regulatory changes, our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. The regulatory framework under which we operate is subject to legal challenge. The Brazilian government implemented fundamental changes in regulation of the power industry under 2004 legislation known as the Lei do Novo Modelo do Setor Elétrico, or New Industry Model Law. Challenges to the constitutionality of the New Industry Model Law are still pending before the Brazilian Supreme Court. If all or part of the New Industry Model Law were held to be unconstitutional, there would be uncertain consequences for the validity of existing regulation and the further development of the regulatory framework. The outcome of the legal proceedings is difficult to predict, but it could have an adverse impact on the entire energy sector, including our business and results of operations. We are uncertain as to the renewal of our concessions. We carry out our generation and distribution activities pursuant to concession agreements entered into with the Brazilian Federal Government. Our concessions range in duration from 16 to 35 years, with the first expiration date in 2015. Five of our distribution subsidiaries have concessions that expire in July 2015, with options to renew for an additional 20 years. In 2010, these five distribution subsidiaries represented 5.4% of net operating revenues of our distribution companies and 5.7% of the energy distributed by our distribution companies. The Brazilian constitution requires that all concessions relating to public services be awarded through a bidding process. Under laws and regulations specific to the electric sector, the Federal Government may renew existing concessions for additional periods of up to 30 years without a bidding process, provided that the concessionaire has met minimum performance standards and that the proposal is otherwise acceptable to the Federal Government. The Federal Government has considerable discretion under the Concessions Law and the concession contracts with respect to renewal of concessions. Moreover, there is no extensive history of administrative renewal practice. As a result, we cannot assure you that our concessions will be renewed at all, or that they will be renewed on the same terms. The tariffs that we charge for sales of electricity to captive consumers are determined by ANEEL pursuant to concession agreements with the Brazilian government, so our operating revenues could be adversely affected if ANEEL makes decisions relating to our tariffs that are not favorable to us. ANEEL has substantial discretion to establish the tariff rates our distribution companies charge our consumers. Our tariffs are determined pursuant to concession agreements with the Brazilian Federal Government, and in accordance with ANEEL’s regulations and decisions. Our concession agreements and the Brazilian law establish a mechanism that permits three types of tariff adjustments: (i) the annual adjustment (“reajuste anual”), (ii) the periodic revision (“revisão periódica”) and 6 Table of Contents (iii) the extraordinary revision (“revisão extraordinária”). We are entitled to apply each year for the annual adjustment, which is designed to offset some effects of inflation on tariffs and pass through to consumers certain changes in our cost structure that are beyond our control, such as the cost of electricity we purchase from certain sources and certain regulatory charges, including charges for the use of transmission and distribution facilities. In addition, ANEEL carries out a periodic revision every four or five years that is aimed at identifying variations in our costs as well as setting a factor based on our operational efficiency that will be applied against the index of our ongoing annual tariff adjustments, the objective of which is to share any related gains with our consumers. We are also subject to extraordinary revision of our tariffs that may affect (negatively or positively) our results of operations or financial position. We cannot be sure if ANEEL will establish tariffs at rates that are favorable to us, due to changes in the methods in calculating the periodic revision adjustments. In addition, to the extent that any of these adjustments are not granted by ANEEL in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. The methodology applicable to the third periodic revision cycle (2011 to 2014) is under discussion at public hearing No. 40/2010, conducted by ANEEL. For the third cycle, ANEEL has proposed a new method for recognizing the costs we pass through to our consumers. ANEEL is currently receiving comments from players within the electricity sector and will disclose its conclusions up to the third quarter of 2011. As initially suggested by ANEEL, the new methodology negatively affects our financial condition and results of operations. However, the outcome of public hearing No. 40/2010 is still uncertain and we cannot predict how the new methodology will impact our financial condition. Additionally, ANEEL suggested a change in the methodology for calculating the TUSD and other electricity tariffs, which is under discussion at public hearing No. 120/2010. The outcome of public hearing No. 120/2010 is also uncertain and we cannot foresee how this methodology will impact our financial condition. We could be penalized by ANEEL for failing to comply with the terms of our concession agreements, which could result in fines, other penalties and, depending on the gravity of the non‑compliance, in our concessions being terminated. ANEEL may impose penalties on us in the event that we fail to comply with any provision of our concession agreements. Depending on the gravity of the non‑compliance, these penalties could include the following: · warning notices; · fines per breach of up to 2.0% of the revenues from the relevant concession in the year ended immediately prior to the date of the relevant breach; · injunctions related to the construction of new facilities and equipment; · restrictions on the operation of existing facilities and equipment; · intervention by ANEEL in the management of the concessionaire; and · termination of the concession. In addition, the Brazilian government has the power to terminate any of our concessions by means of expropriation for reasons related to the public interest. We are currently in compliance with all of the material terms of our concession agreements. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be penalized by ANEEL for breaching our concession agreements or that our concessions will not be terminated in the future. The compensation to which we are entitled upon termination of our concessions may not be sufficient for us to realize the full value of certain assets. If any of our concession agreements is terminated for reasons attributable to us, the effective amount of compensation by the granting authorities could be materially reduced through the imposition of fines or other penalties. Accordingly, the 7 Table of Contents imposition of fines or penalties on us or the termination of any of our concessions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to fully pass through the costs of our electricity purchases and, to meet demand, we could be forced to enter into short‑term agreements to purchase electricity at prices substantially higher than under our long‑term purchase agreements. Under the New Industry Model Law, an electricity distributor must contract in advance, through public bids, for 100% of its forecasted electricity needs for its distribution concession areas. Over- or under-forecasting demand can have adverse consequences. If our forecasted demand is incorrect and we purchase less or more electricity than we need, we may be prevented from fully passing through the costs of our electricity purchases and we may also be forced to enter into short‑term agreements to purchase electricity at prices substantially higher than under our long‑term purchase agreements. For instance, the New Industry Model Law provides, among other restrictions, that if our forecasts fall significantly short of actual electricity demand, we may be forced to make up the shortfall with shorter term electricity purchase agreements. If our acquisitions of electricity in the public auctions are above the Annual Reference Value (Valor Anual de Referência) established by the Brazilian government, we may not be able to fully pass through the costs of our electricity purchases. Our forecasted electricity demand may prove inaccurate, including as a result of consumers moving between the different markets (regulated and free). If there are significant variations between our electricity needs and the volume of our electricity purchases, our results of operations may be adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—The Brazilian Power Industry—The New Industry Model Law.” ANEEL may limit distributions that our regulated subsidiaries may make to us. The amounts that our regulated subsidiaries may distribute to us in the form of dividends in any given fiscal year depend on such subsidiaries making a profit, as calculated in accordance with the Brazilian Corporation Law. Despite the significant cash flow generated by our regulated subsidiaries, their results are affected by depreciation and by the amortization of intangible assets arising from the acquisition of RGE and Semesa. As a result, this limitation may eventually prevent some portion of the cash generated by our regulated subsidiaries from being distributed to us as dividends. We generate a significant portion of our operating revenues from consumers that qualify as Free Consumers, and that are allowed to seek alternative electricity suppliers. We may face other types of competition that could adversely affect our market share and revenues. Within our concession areas, other electricity suppliers are permitted to compete with us in offering electricity to certain consumers that qualify as Free Consumers, to whom our distribution subsidiaries may supply electricity only at regulated tariffs. Such consumers qualified as Free Consumers may elect to opt out of our regulated distribution system upon the expiration of their contracts with us, by providing six months’ prior notice, or by providing a year’s prior notice if their contract has no fixed termination date. At December 31, 2010, we supplied energy to 72 consumers qualified as Free Consumers, which accounted for approximately 2.5% of our net operating revenues and approximately 4.3% of the total volume of electricity sold by our distributors during 2010. In addition, other consumers meeting certain criteria may become Free Consumers if they move to energy from renewable energy sources, such as small hydroelectric power plants or biomass. At December 31, 2010 we had a total of 1,637 of these consumers which accounted for approximately 14.6% of our net operating revenues and approximately 18.3% of the total volume of electricity sold by our distribution companies during 2010. A decision by our consumers qualified as Free Consumers to become Free Consumers and purchase electricity from electricity suppliers serving Free Consumers located in our concession areas would adversely affect our market share and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that our large industrial clients could be authorized by ANEEL to generate electric energy for self consumption or sale to other parties, in which case they may obtain an authorization or concession for the generation of electric power in a given area, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 8 Table of Contents Our operating results depend on prevailing hydrological conditions. The impact of an electricity shortage and related electricity rationing, as in 2001 and 2002, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent on the prevailing hydrological conditions in the geographic region in which we operate. In 2009, according to data from the National Electrical System Operator, Operador Nacional do Sistema Elétrico (“ONS”), more than 93.3% of Brazil’s electricity supply came from hydroelectric generation facilities. Our region is subject to unpredictable hydrological conditions, with non‑cyclical deviations from average rainfall. The most recent period of low rainfall was between 2000 and 2001, when the Brazilian government instituted the Rationing Program, a program to reduce electricity consumption that was in effect from June 1, 2001 to February 28, 2002. The Rationing Program established limits for energy consumption for industrial, commercial and residential consumers, which ranged from a 15.0% to a 25.0% reduction in energy consumption. If Brazil experiences another electricity shortage, the Brazilian government may implement similar or other policies in the future to address the shortage that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A recurrence of poor hydrological conditions that result in a low supply of electricity to the Brazilian market could cause, among other things, the implementation of broad electricity conservation programs, including mandated reductions in electricity consumption. We cannot assure you that periods of severe or sustained below-average rainfall will not adversely affect our future financial results. Construction, expansion and operation of our electricity generation and distribution facilities and equipment involve significant risks that could lead to lost revenues or increased expenses. The construction, expansion and operation of facilities and equipment for the generation and distribution of electricity involves many risks, including: · the inability to obtain required governmental permits and approvals; · the unavailability of equipment; · supply interruptions; · work stoppages; · labor unrest; · social unrest; · weather and hydrological interferences; · unforeseen engineering and environmental problems; · increases in electricity losses, including technical and commercial losses; · construction and operational delays, or unanticipated cost overruns; · the inability to win electricity auctions promoted by ANEEL; and · unavailability of adequate funding. If we experience these or other problems, we may not be able to generate and distribute electricity in amounts consistent with our projections, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have insurance for many of these risks. 9 Table of Contents We are subject to environmental and health regulations that may become more stringent in the future and may result in increased liabilities and increased capital expenditures. Our distribution and generation activities are subject to comprehensive federal and state legislation as well as supervision by Brazilian governmental agencies that are responsible for the implementation of environmental and health laws and policies. These agencies could take enforcement action against us for our failure to comply with their regulations. These actions could include, among other things, the imposition of fines and revocation of licenses. It is possible that enhanced environmental and health regulations will force us to allocate capital expenditures to compliance, and consequently, divert funds from planned investments. Such a diversion could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to complete our proposed capital expenditure program in a timely manner, the operation and development of our business may be adversely affected. We plan to invest approximately R$1,892 million in our generation activities, and R$4,779 million in our distribution activities during the period from 2011 through 2015. Our ability to carry out this capital expenditure program depends on a variety of factors, including our ability to charge adequate tariffs for our services, our access to domestic and international capital markets and a variety of operating, regulatory and other contingencies. We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources to complete our proposed capital expenditure program, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the operation and development of our business. We are strictly liable for any damages resulting from inadequate provision of electricity services, and our contracted insurance policies may not fully cover such damages. Under Brazilian law we are strictly liable for direct and indirect damages resulting from the inadequate provision of electricity distribution services. In addition, our distribution facilities may, together with our generation utilities, be held liable for damages caused to others as a result of interruptions or disturbances arising from the generation, transmission or distribution systems, whenever these interruptions or disturbances are not attributed to an identifiable member of the ONS. We cannot assure you that our contracted insurance policies will fully cover damages resulting from inadequate rendering of electricity services which may have an adverse effect on us. We may not be able to create the expected benefits and return on investments from the new businesses we recently entered into. We have entered into a number of new energy generation businesses (wind, thermoelectric and biomass energy) with substantial capital investments. We have few operating history and track record in these industries and may not be able to foster the synergies with our traditional businesses. In addition: · In the biomass business, we may suffer from a lack of sugar cane (a necessary input for the generation of this type of energy) in the market. In addition, we depend to a certain extent on the performance of our partners in these projects in the construction and operation of the plants; · Among the significant uncertainties and risks with respect to our wind farms under construction, we have financial risk associated with the difference between the energy we generate and the energy contracted through the reserve energy contract (Contrato de Energia de Reserva – CER), in which we bear the risk of divergences arising from: (a) wind intensity and duration different from that contemplated in the study phase of the project; (b) delay in commencement of operations of the wind farms under construction; and (c) unavailability of wind turbines at levels above the performance benchmarks; If these new generation plants are not able to (i) generate the energy contracted by our clients, or (ii) generate the energy necessary to supply any clients in the free market, and (iii), the energy provided to us is insufficient to supply the contracted demand, we may be obliged to buy the shortfall in the spot market, in which the price per MWh is usually more volatile and may be higher than our price, resulting in an adverse effect on us. Our growth, operating results and financial condition may be negatively affected by one or more of the above factors. 10 Table of Contents We are controlled by a few shareholders acting together, and their interests could conflict with yours. As of December 31, 2010, VBC Energia S.A. (“VBC”), PREVI (through BB Carteira Livre I FIA), and Bonaire Participações S.A. (“Bonaire”), owned 25.55%, 31.02% and 12.62%, respectively, of our outstanding common shares. These entities are parties to a shareholders’ agreement, pursuant to which they share the power to control us. Our controlling shareholders may take actions that could be contrary to your interests, and our controlling shareholders will be able to prevent other shareholders, including you, from blocking these actions. In particular, our controlling shareholders control the outcome of decisions at shareholders’ meetings, and they can elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors. Our controlling shareholders can direct our actions in areas such as business strategy, financing, distributions, acquisitions and dispositions of assets or businesses. Their decisions on these matters may be contrary to the expectations or preferences of our noncontrolling shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Shareholders’ Agreement.” We are exposed to increases in prevailing market interest rates, as well as foreign exchange rate risk. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 95.0% of our total indebtedness was denominated in reais and indexed to Brazilian money-market rates or inflation rates, or bore interest at floating rates. The remaining 5.0% of our total indebtedness was denominated in U.S. dollars and Japanese yen and substantially subject to currency swaps that converted these obligations into reais. In addition, the costs of electricity purchased from Itaipu are indexed to the U.S. dollar exchange variation. Our tariffs are adjusted annually in order to contemplate the losses or gains’ effects from such electricity acquisition. Accordingly, if these indexation rates rise or the U.S. dollar/real or Japanese yen/real exchange rates appreciate, our financing expenses will increase. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and make payments on our debt. As of December 31, 2010, we had a debt of 9,219 million. Our indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay when due the principal, interest or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. In addition, we may incur additional debt from time to time to finance strategic acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions applicable under our existing indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage would increase. We may acquire other companies in the electricity business, as we have in the past, and these acquisitions could increase our leverage or adversely affect our consolidated performance. We regularly analyze opportunities to acquire other companies engaged in activities along the entire electricity generation, transmission and distribution chain. If we do acquire other electricity companies, it could increase our leverage or reduce our profitability. Furthermore, we may not be able to integrate the acquired company’s activities and achieve the economies of scale and expected efficiency gains that often drive such acquisitions, and failure to do so could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. This involvement, as well as Brazilian political and economic conditions, could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our ADSs and our common shares. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policy and regulations. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and other policies and regulations have often involved, among other measures, increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in policy or regulations at the federal, state or municipal levels involving or affecting factors such as: 11 Table of Contents · interest rates; · monetary policy; · currency fluctuations; · inflation; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; · tax policies; · changes in labor laws; · regulatory environment of our sector; · exchange rates and exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad, such as those that were briefly imposed in 1989 and early 1990; and · other political, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. We cannot assure you that the Brazilian government will continue with the current economic policies, or that any changes implemented by the Brazilian government will not, directly or indirectly, affect our business and results of operations. Exchange rate instability may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. The Brazilian currency has during the last decades experienced frequent and substantial variations in relation to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies. Between 2000 and 2002, the real depreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar, reaching an exchange rate of R$3.53 per US$1.00 at the end of 2002. Between 2003 and mid-2008, the real appreciated significantly against the U.S. dollar due to the stabilization of the macro-economic environment and a strong increase in foreign investment in Brazil, with the exchange rate reaching R$1.56 per US$1.00 in August 2008. In the context of the crisis in the global financial markets after mid-2008, the real depreciated against the U.S. dollar over the year 2008 and reached R$2.337 per US$1.00 at year end 2008. During 2009, the real appreciated against the U.S. dollar 25.5% in the context of the economic recovery and reached R$1.741 per US$1.00 at year end 2009. On December 31, 2010, the exchange rate of the real against the U.S. dollar was R$1.666 per US$1.00. On June 3, 2011, the exchange rate was R$1.574 per US$1.00. Although the real has appreciated against the U.S. dollar recently, reaching R$1.56 per US$1.00 in April 2011, we cannot assure that the real will not depreciate against the U.S. dollar in the future. Depreciation of the real increases the cost of servicing our foreign currency denominated debt and the cost of purchasing electricity from the Itaipu power plant, a hydroelectric facility that is one of our major suppliers and that adjusts electricity prices based in part on its U.S. dollar costs. Depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar could create inflationary pressures in Brazil and cause increases in interest rates, which could negatively affect the growth of the Brazilian economy as a whole and harm our financial condition and results of operations, may curtail access to foreign financial markets and may prompt government intervention, including recessionary governmental policies. Depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar can also lead to decreased consumer spending, deflationary pressures and reduced growth of the economy as a whole. On the other hand, appreciation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies could lead to a deterioration of the Brazilian foreign exchange current accounts, as well as dampen export-driven growth. Depending on the circumstances, either depreciation or appreciation of the real could materially and adversely affect the growth of the Brazilian economy and our business, financial condition and results of operations. Depreciation of the real also reduces the U.S. dollar value of distributions and dividends on the ADSs and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our common shares and, as a result, the ADSs. 12 Table of Contents Government efforts to combat inflation may hinder the growth of the Brazilian economy and could harm our business. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation and has therefore followed monetary policies that have resulted in one of the highest real interest rates in the world. Between 2005 and 2010, the base interest rate (“SELIC”) in Brazil varied between 9.8% p.a. and 19.1% p.a. Inflation and the Brazilian government’s measures to fight it, principally through the Central Bank, have had and may have significant effects on the Brazilian economy and our business. Tight monetary policies with high interest rates may restrict Brazil’s growth and the availability of credit. Conversely, more lenient government and Central Bank policies and interest rate decreases may trigger increases in inflation, and, consequently, growth volatility and the need for sudden and significant interest rate increases, which could negatively affect our business. In addition, if Brazil again experiences high inflation, we may not be able to adjust the rates we charge our consumers to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structure. Developments and the perception of risk in other countries, including the United States and emerging market countries, may adversely affect the market price of Brazilian securities, including the ADSs and our common shares. The market value of securities of Brazilian issuers is affected by economic and market conditions in other countries, including the United States, the European Union and emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in those countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, investor’s reactions to developments in other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Crises in the United States, the European Union or emerging market countries may diminish investor interest in securities of Brazilian issuers, including ours. This could adversely affect the trading price of the ADSs or our common shares, and could also make it more difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms or at all. The global financial crisis which started during the second half of 2008 has had significant consequences, including in Brazil, such as stock and credit market volatility, unavailability of credit, higher interest rates, a general economic slowdown, volatile exchange rates and inflationary pressure, among others, which may, directly or indirectly, adversely affect us and the market price of Brazilian securities, including the ADSs and our common shares. The Brazilian government has adopted measures to combat the effects of the financial crisis, such as expansion of credit. Although the scenario has improved significantly since the second half of 2009, it is still not clear how these measures will affect Brazilian economy in 2011. Risks Relating to the ADSs and Our Common Shares Holders of our ADSs may encounter difficulties in the exercise of voting rights. Holders of our common shares are entitled to vote on shareholder matters. You may encounter difficulties in the exercise of some of your rights as a shareholder if you hold our ADSs rather than the underlying common shares. For example, you are not entitled to attend a shareholders’ meeting, and you can only vote by giving timely instructions to the depositary in advance of the meeting. If you surrender your ADSs and withdraw common shares, you risk losing the ability to remit foreign currency abroad and certain Brazilian tax advantages. As an ADS holder, you benefit from the electronic certificate of foreign capital registration obtained by the custodian for our common shares underlying the ADSs in Brazil, which permits the custodian to convert dividends and other distributions with respect to the common shares into non‑Brazilian currency and remit the proceeds abroad. If you surrender your ADSs and withdraw common shares, you will be entitled to continue to rely on the custodian’s electronic certificate of foreign capital registration for only five business days from the date of withdrawal. Thereafter, upon the disposition of or distributions relating to the common shares, you will not be able to remit abroad non‑Brazilian currency unless you obtain your own electronic certificate of foreign capital registration or you qualify under Brazilian foreign investment regulations that entitle some foreign investors to buy and sell shares on Brazilian stock exchanges without obtaining separate electronic certificates of foreign capital 13 Table of Contents registration. If you do not qualify under the foreign investment regulations you will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment of dividends and distributions on, and the proceeds from any sale of, our common shares. If you attempt to obtain your own electronic certificate of foreign capital registration, you may incur expenses or suffer delays in the application process, which could delay your ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to our common shares or the return of your capital in a timely manner. The depositary’s electronic certificate of foreign capital registration may also be adversely affected by future legislative changes. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to our common shares. We may not be able to offer our common shares to U.S. holders of ADSs pursuant to preemptive rights granted to holders of our common shares in connection with any future issuance of our common shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such common shares and preemptive rights, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement relating to preemptive rights with respect to our common shares, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. If such a registration statement is not filed and an exemption from registration does not exist, Deutsche Bank, as depositary, will attempt to sell the preemptive rights, and you will be entitled to receive the proceeds of such sale. However, these preemptive rights will expire if the depositary does not sell them, and U.S. holders of ADSs will not realize any value from the granting of such preemptive rights. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may substantially limit your ability to sell the common shares underlying the ADSs at the price and time you desire. Investing in securities that trade in emerging markets, such as Brazil, often involves greater risk than investing in securities of issuers in the United States, and such investments are generally considered to be more speculative in nature. The Brazilian securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and can be more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. Accordingly, although you are entitled to withdraw the common shares underlying the ADSs from the depositary at any time, your ability to sell the common shares underlying the ADSs at a price and time at which you wish to do so may be substantially limited. There is also significantly greater concentration in the Brazilian securities market than in major securities markets in the United States. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented 54,9% of the aggregate market capitalization of the BM&FBOVESPA S.A., Bolsa de Valores, Mercadorias & Futuros (“BM&FBOVESPA”), as of December 31, 2010. The top ten stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for 58.3%, 53.7% and 50.0% of all shares traded on the BM&FBOVESPA in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively. 