D. Risk Factors Much of the information included in this annual report includes or is based upon estimates, projections or other "forward looking statements". Such forward looking statements include any projections or estimates made by our Company and our management in connection with our business operations. While these forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are made in good faith and reflect our current judgment regarding the direction of our business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes materially, from any estimates, predictions, projections, assumptions or other future performance suggested herein. - 11 - Such estimates, projections or other forward looking statements involve various risks and uncertainties as outlined below. We caution the reader that important factors in some cases have affected and, in the future, could materially affect actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in any such estimates, projections or other forward looking statements. The common shares of our Company are considered speculative. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties in addition to other information in this annual report in evaluating our Company and our business before purchasing shares of our Company's common stock. Our business, operating and financial condition could be harmed due to any of the following risks. Risks Associated with Mining As our properties are in exploration, development and mining stages there is no assurance as to the full extent that we will be establishing commercial discoveries on our properties. Despite a 48-year history of continuous production at the Topia Mine, extensive exploration work on our mineral claims and current commercially profitable operations there, the full extent of the ore bodies has yet to be established in accordance with Canadian NI 43-101. Similarly, at the Guanajuato Mine Complex, with its estimates of historic production ranging from 700 million ounces to 1.5 billion ounces of silver and 4 to 7 million ounces of gold since 1548, with extensive exploration work done to date, with current physical mining and with the production of increasing quantities of silver and gold concentrates, it is nevertheless too early to determine the full extent of the ore bodies in accordance with Canadian NI 43-101. Mineral operations are subject to government regulations which could have the effect of reducing or preventing us from exploiting any possible mineral reserves on our properties. Mining and exploration activities are also subject to national and local laws and regulations governing prospects, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and others which currently or in the future may have a substantial adverse impact on our Company. In order to comply with applicable laws, we may be required to make capital expenditures until a particular problem is remedied. Existing and possible future environmental legislation, regulation and action could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restriction and delays in the activities of our Company, the extent of which cannot be reasonably predicted. Violators may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of our mining activities and may be fined if convicted of an offence under such legislation. Mining and mineral exploration has substantial operational risks, which could prevent us from achieving profitable operations. Mining and mineral exploration involves many risks, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which we have an interest will be subject to all of the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of base, precious and other metals, any of which could result in damage to or destruction of mines and other producing facilities, damage to life and property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for any or all damage. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities could exceed policy limits of our insurance coverage, in which case we could incur significant costs that could prevent us from becoming profitable. Most exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable ore deposits and no assurance can be given that any anticipated level of recovery of ore reserves will be realized or that any identified mineral deposit will ever qualify as a commercially viable ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. - 12 - Our projects are located in Mexico where mining and exploration activities may be affected in varying degrees by political and government regulations, which could have a negative impact on our ability to continue our operations. Mining and exploration activities in Mexico may be affected in varying degrees by political instabilities and government regulations relating to the mining industry. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business. Our operations may also be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriations of property, environmental legislation and mine safety. The status of Mexico as a developing country may make it more difficult for us to obtain any required financing for our projects. The effect of all these factors cannot be accurately predicted. Notwithstanding the progress achieved in restructuring Mexican political institutions and revitalizing its economy, the present administration, or any successor government, may not be able to sustain the progress achieved. While the Mexican economy has experienced growth in recent years, such growth may not continue in the future at similar rates or at all. If the economy of Mexico fails to continue its growth or suffers a recession, we may not be able to continue our operations in that country. We do not carry political risk insurance. Our operations may be subject to environmental regulations which may result in the imposition of fines and penalties. Our operations may be subject to environmental regulations promulgated by government agencies from time-to-time. There is no assurance that environmental regulations will not change in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our Company's financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. Environmental legislation is constantly expanding and evolving in ways that impose stricter standards and more rigorous enforcement, with higher fines and more severe penalties for non-compliance, and increased scrutiny of proposed projects. There is an increased level of responsibility for companies, and trends towards criminal liability for officers and directors for violations of environmental laws, whether inadvertent or not. The cost of compliance with changes in governmental regulations has a potential to reduce the profitability of our operations. While we maintain appropriate insurance for liability and property damage, we may become subject to liability for hazards that cannot be insured against, which if such liabilities arise, could reduce or eliminate profitability for our Company. Our operations may involve the use of dangerous and hazardous substances. While extensive measures are taken to prevent discharges of pollutants in the ground water and the environment, and it is anticipated that we will maintain appropriate insurance for liability and property damage in connection with our business, we may become subject to liability for hazards that cannot be insured against or which we may elect not to insure ourselves against due to high premium costs or other reasons. Should such liabilities arise, they could reduce or eliminate the profitability of us resulting in a decline in the value of our securities. In the course of mining and exploration of our mineral properties, certain risks and, in particular, unexpected or unusual geological operating conditions including rock bursts, cave-ins, fires, flooding and earthquakes may occur. It is not always possible to fully insure against such risks and we may decide not to take out insurance against such risks as a result of high premiums or other reasons. Should such liabilities arise, they could reduce or eliminate any future profitability and result in increasing costs and a decline in the value of our securities. There can be no assurance that title to any property interest acquired by us or our subsidiary is secured. Although we have taken reasonable precaution to ensure that legal title to our properties is properly documented, there can be no assurance that our Company's, or our subsidiaries’, property interests may not be challenged or impugned. Such property interests may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers or other land claims, and title may be affected by undetected defects and adverse laws and regulations. - 13 - We have a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects. Since we have only recently begun mining and further development of our mining properties, we only have a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our future prospects. Our operating activities from 2004 through 2006, consisted primarily of locating and acquiring the interest in the properties that we currently hold. In the first part of 2006, we commenced production at the Topia Mine and limited production at the Guanajuato Mine Complex, and only increased production at both locations in the second half of 2006. 2007 was the first year in which both mines were in full production. For the year ended 2007, we generated $17,487,070 in revenue, compared to $7,069,442 and $0 for the twelve month periods ending December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Although we have prepared internal mining plans and cash flow analyses for the Topia Mine and Guanajuato Mine Complex, we have no way to evaluate the likelihood that we will be able to operate our business successfully or that our properties contain a sufficient amount of recoverable reserves. We recognize that if we are unable to generate significant revenues from our mining operations and any dispositions of our properties, we will not be able to earn profits or continue operations, potentially resulting in significant losses in the foreseeable future. At this early stage of our operation, we also expect to face the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies at the early stage of their business development. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in addressing these risks and uncertainties and our failure to do so could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition. Aside from the professional track record of our Company’s management team, there is no history upon which to base any assumption as to the likelihood that our Company will prove successful and we can provide investors with no assurance that we will generate any net operating revenues or achieve profitable operations. The fact that we have generated significant revenues for only two years raises some doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have generated revenues for two years since beginning our mining and exploration activities in Mexico. We may continue to incur greater operating expenses than revenues until all our mining properties are sufficiently developed to sustain commercial production and as a result, we may need to undertake further financing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully mine, develop and explore our mining properties or that viable reserves exist on our properties for extraction. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash inflow to support our business activities during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008, we may be forced to delay, scale back, or eliminate our mining and exploration activities. Because we have only recently begun to earn revenue from our business, we may need to raise additional funds for the further exploration and development of our mining claims and to respond to unanticipated requirements or expenses. We do not currently have any arrangements for financing and we can provide no assurance to investors that we will be able to find such financing if it is required. The most likely source of future funds presently available to our Company is through the sale of equity capital. All of these circumstances raise some doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. The report of the independent registered public accounting firm on our 2007 annual financial statements includes an additional explanatory paragraph that states that conditions or events exist, which raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of that uncertainty. - 14 - Our properties are in the production, development and exploration stages; however, they have not all been proven commercially viable at this time and there is no assurance that commercially viable quantities of ore will continue to be discovered. Our mineral properties are in the early production, development, and/or exploration stages and are not all commercially viable at this time. Despite extensive exploration work on our mineral properties and a long history of continuous production at both the Topia and Guanajuato mines, no known bodies of commercial ore or economic deposits have been established to the satisfaction of National Instrument 43-101 on any of the mineral properties. Mineral exploration involves a high degree of risk. There is no assurance that commercially viable quantities of ore will be discovered at our exploration sites, or that our exploration properties will be brought into commercial production. If we are not able to continue to locate sufficient quantities of commercially viable ore and bring our exploration properties into commercial production, we may not be able to continue operations and, as a result, our shareholders may lose any investment in our Company. There is substantial risk that no commercially exploitable minerals will be found at our exploration properties and our business may fail. The search for valuable minerals as a business is extremely risky. We can provide investors with no assurance that the mineral claims that we have an option to acquire contain commercially exploitable reserves. Exploration for minerals is a speculative venture necessarily involving substantial risk. The probability of an individual prospect having reserves and being commercially profitable is remote and, if a property does not contain any reserves, the funds we have spent or will spend on exploration of such property will be lost. We are subject to environmental protection legislation with which we must comply or suffer sanctions from regulatory authorities. If the results of our geological exploration program indicate commercially exploitable reserves and we decide to pursue commercial production of our mineral claims, we may be subject to an environmental review process under environmental assessment legislation. Compliance with an environmental review process may be costly and may delay commercial production. Furthermore, there is the possibility that we would not be able to proceed with commercial production upon completion of the environmental review process if government authorities do not approve our mine or if the costs of compliance with government regulation adversely affect the commercial viability of the proposed mine. Mineral prices are subject to dramatic and unpredictable fluctuations. The market price of precious metals and other minerals is volatile and cannot be controlled. If the price of precious metals and other minerals should drop significantly, the economic prospects of the projects in which we have an interest could be significantly reduced or rendered uneconomic. There is no assurance that, even if commercial quantities of ore are discovered, a profitable market may exist for the sale of same. Factors beyond our control may affect the marketability of any minerals discovered. Mineral prices have fluctuated widely, particularly in recent years. The marketability of minerals is also affected by numerous other factors beyond our control, including government regulations relating to royalties, allowable production and importing and exporting of minerals, the effect of which cannot be accurately predicted. If we cannot locate qualified personnel, we may have to suspend or cease operations which will result in the loss your investment. Not all of our directors and officers have direct training or experience in metals exploration or mining and as a result, they may not be fully aware of any of the specific requirements related to working within the industry. Their decisions and choices may not take into account standard engineering or managerial - 15 - approaches that mineral exploration companies commonly use. Consequently, our operations, earnings and ultimate financial success could suffer irreparable harm. As a result, we may have to suspend or cease operations which would result in the loss of your investment. Risks Associated with our Business We have limited financial resources and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate financing in the future. Failure to obtain such financing may result in a delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration, development and mining of our projects. We have limited financial resources and we have no assurances that additional funding will be available to be used for working capital, to further develop the Company’s mines and exploration properties, to fulfil certain contractual obligations and to fund corporate overhead costs. Although we have been successful in the past in obtaining financing through the sale of equity securities and, recently, through the sale of minerals, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be favourable, or that our sale of minerals will generate sufficient revenues. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in a delay or indefinite postponement of mining activities, exploration and development of our projects and the possibility of loss of such properties. Fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our results. Virtually all of the goods and services required by us in connection with our operations in Mexico and costs for the further acquisition of interests in our properties, will be paid for in Mexican pesos or United States dollars. Prices for goods and services offered to members of the mining industry in Mexico, when quoted in Mexican pesos, are, for the most part, adjusted so as to remain competitive with prices offered in respect of the same goods and services in the United States and Canada. Nonetheless, an increase in the value of the Mexican pesos or of the United States dollar relative to the Canadian dollar, which is not followed by such an adjustment, may affect the ability of our Company to carry out our exploration and development programs and may substantially increase the costs of such programs. Variations in the market prices of metals may affect our ability to raise funding to continue exploration, development and mining of our properties. In addition, any significant fluctuations in metal prices will impact on our decision to accelerate or reduce our exploration activities. Factors beyond our control may affect the marketability of any substances discovered. The prices of various metals have experienced significant movement over the last two years, and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates and global or regional consumption patterns, speculative activities and increased production due to improved mining and production methods. The supply of and demand for metals are affected by various factors, including political events, economic conditions and production costs in major mineral producing regions. Variations in the market prices of metals may affect our ability to raise funding to continue exploration of our properties. In addition, any significant fluctuations in metal prices will impact on our decision to accelerate or reduce our exploration activities. We are dependant on the services of certain key officers, namely Robert Archer, Kaare Foy and Charles Brown, and the loss of these certain key personnel may have a materially adverse effect on our Company. While engaged in the business of mining and exploring mineral properties in Mexico, the nature of our business, our ability to continue our exploration of potential projects, and to develop a competitive edge in the marketplace, depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and maintain qualified key management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain such personnel. Our growth has depended, and in the future will continue to depend, on the efforts of our key - 16 - management personnel such as Robert A. Archer, our President, CEO and a director, Kaare G. Foy, Executive Chairman and Charles Brown, our Chief Operating Officer. The loss of any of these people would have a material adverse effect on us. Currently, we have contracts with these key employees. We do not have key-man life insurance. Conflicts of interest may arise as a result of our directors and officers being directors and officers of other natural resource companies. Certain of our directors and officers may continue to be involved in a wide range of business activities through their direct and their indirect participation in corporations, partnerships or joint ventures. Situations may arise in connection with potential acquisitions and investments where the other interests of these director and officers may conflict with the interests of our Company. Our directors and officers with conflicts of interest will be subject to and will follow the procedures set out in the applicable corporate legislation. Risks Relating to an Investment in our Securities Trading in our common shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) is limited and any sporadic trading may make it difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares or liquidate their investments. The trading price of our shares has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Trading prices of our shares may fluctuate in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for gold and silver exploration companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Our By-laws indemnify our officers and directors against all costs, charges and expenses incurred by them. Our By-laws contain provisions limiting the liability of our officers and directors for all acts, receipts, neglects or defaults of themselves and all of our other officers or directors or for any other loss, damage or expense incurred by our Company which shall happen in the execution of the duties of such officers or directors, as do indemnification agreements between us and our directors. Such limitations on liability may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against our officers and directors and may discourage or deter our shareholders from suing our officers and directors based upon breaches of their duties to our Company, though such an action, if successful, might otherwise benefit our Company and our shareholders. Investors' interests in our Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share if we issue incentive stock options to our employees, directors, officers and consultants. We have granted, and in the future may grant, to directors, officers, insiders, and key employees options to purchase our common shares as non-cash incentives to those persons. Such options have been and may in future, be granted at exercise prices equal to market prices, or at prices as allowable under the policies of the TSX. The issuance of additional shares will cause our existing shareholders to experience dilution of their ownership interests. - 17 - Investors' interests in our Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share if we issue additional shares or raise funds through the sale of equity securities. As our operating expenses currently exceed our revenue from mineral sales, we may be required to issue additional shares to finance our operations and, depending on the outcome of our exploration programs and mining operations, may issue additional shares to finance additional programs and mining operations or to acquire additional properties. In the event that we are required to issue additional shares or decide to enter into joint ventures with other parties in order to raise financing through the sale of equity securities, investors' interests in our Company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. As at December 31, 2007, there are also outstanding common share purchase warrants and options exercisable into 10,378,074 common shares which, if exercised, would represent approximately 11.4% of our issued and outstanding shares. If all of these shares are exercised and issued, such issuance also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other shareholders. The dilution may result in a decline in the market price of our shares. We have a history of net losses and there is no assurance that we can reach profitability in the future. We have a history of losses and there is no assurance that we can reach profitability in the future. We may require significant additional funding to meet our business objectives which include expanding our current mining facilities and operations, further developing our existing exploration properties and acquiring additional mineral properties. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all, depending on market conditions and the market sentiment towards the Company. If equity financing is required, then such financings could result in significant dilution to existing shareholders. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing, we might have to dramatically reduce mining and exploration activities, and/or lose control of our projects. We have historically obtained the preponderance of our financing through the issuance of equity as there is no limit to the number of authorized common shares. There are no other plans to obtain financing, if needed, other than through equity financing. U.S. investors may not be able to enforce their civil liabilities against us or our directors, controlling persons and officers. It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against us. We were incorporated under the Company Act (British Columbia) and continued in the Yukon Territory under the Business Corporations Act (Yukon), and then continued to British Columbia under the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia) on July 9, 2004. All of our directors and officers are residents of countries other than the United States and all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult for United States investors to affect service of process in the United States upon those directors or officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States upon judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. There is substantial doubt whether an original action could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or us predicated solely upon such civil liabilities. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC's "Penny Stock" regulations which may limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors". The term "accredited investor" refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. - 18 - The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in, and limit the marketability of, our common stock. U.S. investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes during the 2008 tax year or in subsequent years. We may be deemed a PFIC because previous financings combined with proceeds of future financings may produce, or be deemed to be held to produce, passive income. Additionally, U.S. citizens should review the section entitled "Taxation-U.S. Federal Income Taxation - Passive Foreign Investment Companies" contained in this annual report for a more detailed description of the PFIC rules and how those rules may affect their ownership of our capital shares. If we are or become a PFIC, many of the U.S. shareholders will be subject to the following adverse tax consequences: - They will be taxed at the highest ordinary income tax rates in effect during their holding period on certain distributions on our capital shares, and gains from the sale or other disposition of our capital shares; - They will be required to pay interest on taxes allocable to prior periods; and - The tax basis of our capital shares will not be increased to fair market value at the date of their date. We do not expect to declare or pay any dividends. We have not declared or paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception, and we do not anticipate paying any such dividends for the foreseeable future. ITEM 