Item 1A. Risk Factors Statements made by us in this annual report and in other reports and statements released by us that are not historical facts constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are necessarily estimates reflecting the best judgment of senior management and include comments that express our opinions about trends and factors that may impact future operating results. Disclosures that use words such as we “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “could,” “plan,” “expect” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements rely on a number of assumptions concerning future events, many of which are outside of our control, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from opinions and expectations. Any such forward-looking statements, whether made in this annual report or elsewhere, should be considered in context of the various disclosures made by us about our businesses including, without limitation, the risk factors discussed below. We do not plan to update any such forward-looking statements and expressly disclaim any duty to update the information contained in this annual report, except as required by law. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this annual report. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Activities Our business requires a significant amount of cash, and if it is not available, our business and financial performance will be significantly harmed. We require substantial amounts of cash to fund our loan originations and to pay loan origination expenses. By holding our loans pending sale or securitization, we may also require cash as our warehouse facilities may not fund the entire principal balance of our loans, or if our loans are financed past the permitted term under our warehouse lines, or decline in value, we may need cash to reduce our borrowing under the warehouse facilities to the permitted level. We also need cash to satisfy our working capital, minimum REIT distribution requirements, financial covenants in our warehouse facilities and other needs. We finance the majority of the loans we make by borrowing from our warehouse facilities and pledging the loans made as collateral. If the value of the loans we pledged as collateral declines, we may need cash to offset any decline in value. In addition, if our minimum distribution requirements to maintain our REIT status become large relative to our cash flow as a result of our income exceeding our cash flow, we may be forced to borrow to raise capital on unfavorable terms in order to maintain our REIT qualification. Our primary sources of cash consist of: • borrowings, including under our warehouse facilities; • our net interest income; • the proceeds from the sale of our loans; and • net proceeds from the sale of our securities. Pending the sale or securitization of a pool of mortgage loans, we originate mortgage loans that we finance through borrowings from our warehouse facilities. It is possible that our warehouse lenders could experience changes in their ability to advance funds to us, independent of our performance or the performance of our loans. In addition, if the regulatory capital requirements imposed on our lenders change, our lenders may be required to increase significantly the cost of the lines of credit that they provide to us. 20 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2005, we financed substantially all of our loan originations through warehouse facilities. Each of these facilities may be terminated by the lender upon an event of default, subject in some cases to cure periods. As of December 31, 2005, the aggregate balance outstanding under these facilities was approximately $2.7 billion. The warehouse facilities mature between April 2006 and November 2006. If we are not able to renew any of these warehouse facilities or arrange for new financing on terms acceptable to us, or if we default on our covenants or are otherwise unable to access funds under any of these facilities, we may not be able to originate new loans or continue to fund our operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We determined that we were not in compliance with certain of these financial covenants (primarily profitability covenants) and we received waivers concerning the non-compliance with these covenants from the applicable lenders. If we fail to comply with financial covenants in any of our warehouse facilities in the future and are not able to cure the non-compliance or obtain the necessary waiver, these facilities may be terminated by the lender. We generally fund less than 100% of a loan balance with warehouse debt, requiring us to invest cash to the extent the originated balance is not funded by the warehouse facility. This funding shortfall ranges from 0% to 2% on newly originated loans. The longer loans remain funded by a warehouse facility the more our warehouse lenders require us to advance against the loans. In addition, our warehouse lenders may require us to have on deposit a cash margin against funded loans based upon the loan’s estimated market value. The market for any senior or subordinate securities we issue through securitizations could become temporarily illiquid or trade at steep discounts, thereby reducing the cash flow we receive over time from our loans subject to the securities. In addition, our operating cash flow could be reduced if we sell more loans at a discount than at a premium or at lower premiums. Cash flows from principal repayments could be reduced should prepayments slow or should credit quality trends deteriorate (in the latter case since, for certain of our assets, credit tests must be met for us to receive cash flows). In the event that our liquidity needs exceed our access to liquidity, we may need to sell assets at an inopportune time, thus reducing our earnings. Adverse cash flow could threaten our continued ability to satisfy the income and asset tests necessary to maintain our status as a REIT or our solvency. Our warehouse and repurchase facilities contain covenants that restrict our operations and our ability to make distributions if we are not in compliance with certain financial and other covenants. Our warehouse and repurchase facilities contain restrictions and covenants that, among other things, require us to satisfy specified financial, asset quality and loan performance tests. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants, we would be in default under these agreements and our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under such agreements and restrict our ability to make additional borrowings. The covenants and restrictions in our warehouse and repurchase facilities may restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • make certain investments and other restricted payments; • pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • grant liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • engage in mergers or consolidations, transfer substantially all of our assets or other events constituting a change in control; 21 Table of Contents • finance loans with certain attributes; • reduce liquidity below certain levels; and • hold loans for longer than established time periods. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing, to engage in other business activities or to make distributions if we are not in compliance with these covenants, which may materially harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Warehouse and Repurchase Facilities.” We face intense competition that could adversely affect our market share and our revenues. We face intense competition from finance and mortgage banking companies, other mortgage REITs and other Internet-based lending companies where entry barriers are relatively low. In addition, certain government-sponsored entities, such as the Federal National Mortgage Association or Fannie Mae and the Federal Home Mortgage Corporation or Freddie Mac, are also expanding their participation in the nonconforming residential mortgage industry. These government-sponsored entities have a size and cost-of-funds advantage that allows them to purchase loans with lower rates or fees than we are willing to offer. While the government-sponsored entities presently do not have the legal authority to originate mortgage loans, including nonconforming loans, they do have the authority to buy loans. A material expansion of their involvement in the market to purchase nonconforming loans could change the dynamics of the industry by virtue of their sheer size, pricing power and the inherent advantages of a government charter. In addition, if as a result of their purchasing practices, these government-sponsored entities experience significantly higher-than-expected losses, such experience could adversely affect the overall investor perception of the nonconforming residential mortgage industry. The intense competition in the nonconforming residential mortgage industry has also led to rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and frequent releases of new products and enhancements. Our inability to continue enhancing our current Internet capabilities, or to adapt to other technological changes in the industry, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Competition in the industry can take many forms, including interest rates and costs of a loan, less stringent underwriting standards, convenience in obtaining a loan, customer service, amount and term of a loan and marketing and distribution channels. The need to maintain mortgage loan volume in this competitive environment creates a risk of price and quality competition in the mortgage industry. In fact, we have recently experienced significant price competition from other industry participants. Price competition could cause us to lower the interest rates that we charge borrowers, which could lower the value of our loans for either sale or our portfolio. If our competitors in the nonconforming residential mortgage market adopt less stringent underwriting standards, we will be pressured to do so as well, which would result in greater loan risk without compensating pricing. If we do not relax underwriting standards in response to our competitors, we may lose market share. Any increase in these pricing and underwriting pressures could reduce the volume of our loan originations and sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify investors if we breach representations and warranties, which could adversely impact our earnings. When we sell loans, we are required to make customary representations and warranties about such loans to the loan purchaser. Our whole-loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute loans in the event we breach a representation or warranty given to the loan purchaser or make a misrepresentation during the mortgage loan origination process. In the case of securitized loans, we may be required to replace them with substitute loans or cash. In addition, we may be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default on a mortgage loan. The remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans are generally 22 Table of Contents broader than those available to us against the originating broker. Further, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to enforce the remedies we have against the broker. The repurchased loans typically can only be financed at a steep discount to their repurchase price, if at all. Even if we are able to resell the repurchased loans, repurchased loans are typically sold at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance. Significant repurchase activity could negatively affect our cash flow and results of operations. If we do not maintain the appropriate state licenses we will not be allowed to originate and purchase mortgage loans in some states, which would adversely affect our operations. State mortgage finance licensing laws vary considerably. Most states and the District of Columbia require a license in order to originate first and/or subordinate residential mortgage loans. In most of these states, the required license covers both first mortgage and subordinate mortgage loans. In some states, a separate license or additional license is needed to originate subordinate mortgage loans. In some of the states that require a license to originate residential mortgage loans, a license is also required to purchase closed mortgage loans. If we are unable to obtain and maintain the appropriate state licenses, our operations may be adversely affected. The residential mortgage origination business is a cyclical industry and has recently entered a period of declining origination volume, which could adversely impact our business. The residential mortgage origination business has historically been a cyclical industry, enjoying periods of strong growth and profitability followed by periods of shrinking volumes and industry-wide losses. During periods of rising interest rates, refinancing originations decrease, as higher interest rates provide reduced economic incentives for borrowers to refinance their existing mortgages. We expect the currently occurring rise in interest rates to result in a decreased volume of originations in the foreseeable future. Our results of operations may be materially adversely affected if interest rates rise. Declining real estate values could harm our operations. We believe the risks associated with our business will be more acute during periods of declining real estate values. While periods of rapidly increasing real estate values can increase the level of new mortgage loan originations as borrowers use increases in the value of their existing homes to support the refinancing of their existing mortgage loans or the purchase of new homes at higher levels of borrowings, declining real estate values can reduce our level of mortgage loan originations. Furthermore, declining real estate values will likely reduce our volume of cash-out refinancings and debt consolidation loans as the level of home equity available to secure such loans will be reduced. For the year ended December 31, 2005, approximately 72% of our loan originations were cash-out refinancings and debt consolidation loans. In addition, declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on our loans in the event of default. Therefore, any sustained period of declining real estate values could adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our mortgage loan portfolio, as well as our ability to originate, sell and securitize loans, which would significantly harm our revenues, results of operations, financial condition, business prospects and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Adverse changes in the securitization and whole-loan markets could harm our financial performance. In order for us to continue originating mortgage loans, we must be able to sell or securitize the loans we originate in the securitization and whole-loan markets on an ongoing basis. We use the cash proceeds from these sales to pay down warehouse facilities and originate new mortgage loans. The value of the mortgage loans we originate depends on a number of factors, including general economic conditions, interest rates and governmental regulations. In addition, we rely on institutional purchasers, such as investment banks, financial institutions and other mortgage lenders, to purchase bonds issued in securitization transactions and mortgage loans in the whole-loan market. We cannot be sure that we can sell or securitize our mortgage loans on at least a quarterly basis. Adverse changes in the securitization and whole-loan markets may affect our ability to securitize or sell our mortgage loans for acceptable prices within a reasonable period of time, which would negatively affect our earnings. 23 Table of Contents The use of securitizations with credit enhancement requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow and could adversely impact our business. In connection with our securitizations, we generally provide credit enhancement designed to improve the price at which we sell the securities. We may provide this credit enhancement by providing over-collateralization, paying for financial guaranty insurance policies for the loans, or both. If we use over-collateralization, we will either be required to use cash to fund the over-collateralization amount up front or we may fund the over-collateralization amount through the net interest spread, which would result in us not receiving cash flows from the transaction until the over-collateralization balance reaches certain predefined levels. If we use financial guaranty insurance policies and the expense of these insurance policies increases or the policy insurers are unable to pay claims presented by us, the net interest income we receive will be reduced. While we plan to use credit enhancement features in the future, we cannot assure you that these features will be available at costs that would allow us to achieve the desired level of net interest income from the securitizations of our mortgage loans that we anticipate being able to achieve. In addition, if the performance of our loans pledged to collateralize the securities were worse than certain parameters defined in the securitization documents, then the net interest income we otherwise would have received would be held to build up over-collateralization reserves to provide additional credit enhancements for the senior securities still outstanding at that time. Our securitizations may restrict our cash flow if loan delinquencies or losses exceed certain levels. The terms of securitizations generally provide that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses exceed specified levels, the required level of additional collateral provided as a credit enhancement for the benefit of the investors, or over-collateralization, may be increased or may be prevented from being released as would otherwise be permitted if losses and/or delinquencies did not exceed those levels. An increase in the level of over-collateralization required may restrict our ability to receive cash from net interest income from securitization transactions and could adversely impact our business. Our inability to realize cash proceeds from loan sales in excess of the loan acquisition cost could adversely affect our financial position and business. We sell our loans through Encore Credit, our TRS. The net cash proceeds received from loan sales consist of the premiums received on sales of loans in excess of the outstanding principal balance, minus the discounts on loans sold for less than the outstanding principal balance. The proceeds received on loan sales depend in part on demand for consumer credit. Economic slowdowns or recessions may be accompanied by decreased real estate values and an increased rate of delinquencies, defaults and foreclosures. Potential purchasers might reduce the premiums they pay for the loans during these periods to compensate for any increased risks. Any sustained decline in demand for loans or increase in delinquencies, defaults or foreclosures is likely to significantly harm the pricing of future loan sales such that it falls below the cost to originate loans. If we are unable to originate loans at a cost lower than the cash proceeds realized from loan sales, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and business prospects could be materially adversely affected. The limited specific loan performance data on the loans we have originated and sold previously makes it difficult to predict the performance of loans we retain and any revenues from future securitizations. Prior to 2005, we sold substantially all of the loans that we originated on a whole-loan basis, and, until recently, we did not receive loan performance data on these loans from the servicers. As a result, we have limited default, delinquency, loss, and prepayment experience on these loans. Consequently, the historical delinquency, bankruptcy, foreclosure, default or prepayment experience that may be referred to for purposes of estimating future default, delinquency, loss and prepayment experience of our originated loans may not be representative of actual performance. In view of the limited historical loan performance data available to us, it is extremely difficult to validate our loss or prepayment assumptions used to calculate assumed net interest income in future securitizations of our loans, which could cause us to receive less favorable pricing terms on the mortgage-backed securities we issue than more seasoned issuers with a proven performance record receive. Differences between our assumptions and actual performance may have a material adverse effect on the pricing, interest rates and 24 Table of Contents over-collateralization levels of our mortgage-backed securities and could have a material adverse effect on the timing and receipt of our future revenues, the value of the residual interests held on our balance sheet and our cash flow. We depend on a limited number of purchasers of our loans, and the inability or unwillingness of these purchasers to purchase our loans could have a material adverse impact on our financial position and business. Our ability to continue to originate and purchase loans depends, in part, upon our ability to securitize and sell loans in the whole-loan market in order to generate cash proceeds for new originations and purchases. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we sold approximately 66% of our loans to four customers, EMC Mortgage Corporation, Countrywide Securities Corporation, DLJ Mortgage Capital, Inc., and Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co., Inc., to whom we sold approximately 27%, 13%, 12%, and 14%, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2004, we sold approximately 72% of our loans to two customers, Countrywide Securities Corporation and Bear Stearns, to whom we sold approximately 39% and 33%, respectively. If these purchasers become unable or unwilling to purchase our loans and we are not able to find alternative purchasers, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to fund future originations and purchases, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and business prospects. In a period of rising interest rates, our earnings may decrease. We expect our primary interest rate exposure to relate to our mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and variable-rate debt, as well as the exchange of a fixed amount per payment period for a payment that is not fixed, or interest rate swaps, and option contracts which put an upper limit on a floating exchange rate, or caps, that we utilize for risk management purposes. Changes in interest rates may affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning investments and the interest expense we incur in financing these investments. Changes in the level of interest rates also can affect our ability to originate or acquire mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase while the interest we earn on our assets might not change as rapidly due to our strategy of funding hybrid/adjustable-rate or fixed-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. In addition, while the interest we earn on the hybrid/adjustable rate loans we hold for investment is often capped at predetermined maximums, the rate payable on liabilities such as the notes issued in our securitization transactions may be uncapped. These changes would adversely affect our profitability. Although interest rates have been low over the past few years, the federal funds rate has risen 15 times or 375 basis points during the past two years. The corresponding increase in interest rates may discourage potential borrowers from refinancing mortgages, borrowing to purchase homes or seeking subordinate mortgages. This may decrease the number of mortgages available to be originated or acquired by our mortgage operations, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, borrowers with adjustable rate loans may experience “payment shock” when their initial fixed payment adjusts upwards to reflect the increased interest rate, which may result in the borrowers’ income being unable to support the monthly payment and potentially leading to increased defaults. We originate a significant amount of our mortgage loans in California, Illinois, Florida and New York, and our operations could be harmed by economic downturns or natural disasters in these states. During the year ended December 31, 2005, we originated approximately 46%, 9%, 8% and 6% of our mortgage loans in California, Illinois, Florida and New York, respectively. Declines in the economy generally or residential real estate markets in any of these states may reduce the demand for mortgage loans or increase losses in the event of foreclosure, either of which would hurt our earnings. 25 Table of Contents The occurrence of a natural disaster may cause a sudden decrease in the value of real estate in any of these states and would likely reduce the value of the properties collateralizing the mortgage loans we made. Historically, California has been vulnerable to earthquakes, erosion-caused mudslides and wildfires, and Florida has been vulnerable to tropical storms, hurricanes and tornadoes. Since such natural disasters are not typically covered by the standard hazard insurance policies maintained by many borrowers, the borrowers have to pay for repairs due to such disasters. If the property is damaged, uninsured borrowers may not repair the property or may stop paying their mortgage loans. This would cause the number of foreclosures to increase and decrease our ability to recover losses on properties affected by the disasters. In addition, California has been the focal point for class action and “private attorney general” litigation against nonconforming residential mortgage lenders over the past few years. The litigation typically has been brought under the California Unfair Competition Law, a statute creating liability for “unfair” business practices even if those practices are not otherwise unlawful. New legislative restrictions impacting telemarketing activities may harm our ability to market our loan products. Federal and state laws regulate telemarketing practices, and may adversely impact our business. Enacted in 1991 and 1994, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and Telemarketing Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act, respectively, are designed to restrict unsolicited advertising using the telephone and facsimile machine. Since they were enacted, however, telemarketing practices have changed significantly due to new technologies that make it easier to target potential customers while at the same time making it more cost effective to do so. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, and the United States Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, have responsibility for regulating various aspects of these laws, such as regulating unwanted telephone solicitations and the use of automated telephone dialing systems, prerecorded or artificial voice messages, and telephone facsimile machines. In 2003, both agencies adopted “do-not-call” registry requirements, which, in part, mandate that companies such as us maintain and regularly update lists of consumers who have chosen not to be called. These requirements also mandate that we do not call consumers who have chosen to be on the list. During the same time, many states have also adopted similar laws, with which we believe we also comply at this time. As with other regulatory requirements, these provisions impose additional regulatory and compliance costs on us and reduce the effectiveness of our marketing programs. If many of our borrowers become subject to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003, our cash flows and interest income may be adversely affected. Under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, which in 2003 re-enacted the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, or the Civil Relief Act, members of the military services on active duty receive certain protections and benefits. Under the Civil Relief Act, a borrower who enters active military service after the origination of his or her mortgage loan generally may not be required to pay interest above an annual rate of 6%, and the lender is restricted from exercising certain enforcement remedies, including foreclosure, during the period of the borrower’s active duty status. The Civil Relief Act also applies to a borrower who was on reserve status and is called to active duty after origination of the mortgage loan. Considering the large number of U.S. Armed Forces personnel on active duty and likely to be on active duty in the future, compliance with the Civil Relief Act could reduce our cash flow and the interest payments collected from those borrowers, and in the event of default or delay, prevent us from exercising the remedies for default that otherwise would be available to us. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our financial performance could be harmed. We have grown from 355 employees at December 31, 2002 to 1,667 employees at December 31, 2005, or an increase of more than 370% in staffing in three years. This rapid increase in staffing places constraints on our ability to find and retain qualified employees, train our new employees to use our technology-based process and integrate them into our culture. The failure to manage growth effectively would significantly impair our ability to 26 Table of Contents grow and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. Since we originated our first mortgage loan in March 2002, we have experienced rapid growth that has placed, and will continue to place, certain pressures on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. On January 6, 2006, we announced a cost savings initiative that included a reduction from seven regional processing centers down to three. In addition, 440 employees or approximately 26% of our workforce was terminated, including 108 loan officers. Beginning in the second quarter, our retail operations will be conducted solely out of Irvine. On April 11, 2006, we announced an additional reduction in workforce of approximately 170 employees. Loan prepayment rates may increase, adversely affecting yields on our planned investments. The value of the assets we plan to acquire may be affected by prepayment rates on mortgage loans. Prepayment rates on mortgage loans are influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control, and consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty. In periods of declining mortgage loan interest rates, prepayments on mortgage loans generally increase and the proceeds of such prepayments are likely to be reinvested by us in assets with lower yields than the yields on the assets that were prepaid. In addition, the market value of any mortgage assets may, because of the risk of prepayment, benefit less than other fixed-income securities from declining interest rates. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios we may fail to recoup fully our cost of acquisition of certain investments. The nonconforming mortgage loans we originate generally have higher delinquency and default rates than prime mortgage loans, which could result in losses on loans that we retain or are required to repurchase. The nonconforming mortgage loans we originate generally have higher delinquency and default rates than prime mortgage loans. Delinquency interrupts the flow of projected interest income from a mortgage loan, and default can ultimately lead to a loss if the net realizable value of the real property securing the mortgage loan is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the loan. Also, our cost of financing and servicing a delinquent or defaulted loan is generally higher than for a performing loan. We bear the risk of delinquency and default on loans at the time we originate them. In whole-loan sales, our risk of delinquency typically only extends to the first or second payment due to the purchaser of the loan, but when we securitize we continue to bear some exposure to delinquencies and losses through our residual interests and the loans underlying our on-balance sheet securitization transactions. We will need to establish allowances based on our anticipated delinquencies and losses. We also re-acquire the risks of delinquency and default for loans that we are obligated to repurchase. We attempt to manage these risks with risk-based loan pricing and appropriate underwriting policies and loan collection methods. However, if such policies and methods are insufficient to control our delinquency and default risks and do not result in appropriate loan pricing and appropriate loss allowances, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be harmed. Our adjustable rate mortgage products expose us to greater credit risk. For the year ended December 31, 2005, originations of adjustable rate mortgages or ARM loans totaled $11.5 billion, or 85% of our total originations. Since the payment is subject to adjustment at some future point in time, if interest rates increase, the borrower’s income may not be able to support the monthly payment on the loan when the formerly fixed payment adjusts upward to reflect the increased interest rate. This may lead to increased default rates. In addition, already one rating agency (Standard & Poor’s) has required greater credit enhancements for securitization pools that are backed by ARMs. Our interest-only loans may have a higher risk of default than our fully-amortizing loans. For the year ended December 31, 2005, originations of interest-only loans totaled $3.6 billion, or 26% of total originations. These interest-only loans require the borrowers to make monthly payments only of accrued 27 Table of Contents interest for the first 24, 36 or 120 months following origination. After such interest-only period, the borrower’s monthly payment is recalculated to cover both interest and principal so that the mortgage loan will amortize fully prior to its final payment date. The interest-only feature may reduce the likelihood of prepayment during the interest-only period due to the smaller monthly payments relative to a fully-amortizing mortgage loan. If the monthly payment increases, the related borrower may not be able to pay the increased amount and may default or may refinance the related mortgage loan to avoid the higher payment. Because no principal payments may be made on such mortgage loans for an extended period following origination, if the borrower defaults, the unpaid principal balance of the related loans would be greater than otherwise would be the case for a fully-amortizing loan, increasing the risk of loss on these loans. Our internal underwriting standards may not provide adequate protection against the risks inherent in nonconforming residential mortgage loans and as a result, our cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, including any net interest income from securitizations, could be materially harmed. A substantial portion of the loans we originate are underwritten generally in accordance with our underwriting guidelines that are intended to provide for nonconforming residential mortgages. The mortgage industry often refers to mortgage loans that are eligible for sale to government-sponsored entities, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, under both size and credit characteristics, as conforming or prime loans, while those mortgage loans that do not satisfy the credit, documentation or other underwriting standards prescribed by those government sponsored entities are often referred to as nonconforming loans. Accordingly, mortgage loans underwritten under our underwriting standards are likely to experience rates of delinquency, foreclosure and loss that are higher, and may be substantially higher, than mortgage loans originated in accordance with Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines. We cannot be certain that our underwriting criteria will afford adequate protection against the higher risks associated with loans made to such borrowers. If we are unable to mitigate these risks, our cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, including any net interest income from securitizations, could be materially harmed. We may change our investment strategy without your consent, which may result in our investing in riskier investments than our currently planned investments. We may change our investment strategy at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described under the caption “Business” in Item 1, Part I of this annual report. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to, among other things, credit risk, interest rate risk and real estate market fluctuations. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. We use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. When rates change, we expect to record a gain or loss on derivatives, which would be offset by an inverse change in the value of loans or residual interests. Our hedging activities may include entering into interest rate swaps, caps and floors, options to purchase these items, and futures and forward contracts. Currently, we use primarily Eurodollar futures contracts to manage interest rate risk on loans held-for-sale and interest rate cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk on loans held-for-investment; however, our actual hedging decisions will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time and may differ from our currently anticipated hedging strategy. Any significant decrease in interest rates could result in a significant margin call on our Eurodollar positions, which would require us to provide the counterparty with additional cash collateral. Any such margin call could harm our liquidity, results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. We cannot assure you that our use of derivatives will offset the risks related to changes in interest rates. The derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. In addition, 28 Table of Contents the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. We cannot assure you that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses, and such losses could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. New legislation and regulations directed at curbing predatory lending practices could restrict our ability to originate, purchase or price nonconforming residential mortgage loans, which could adversely impact our earnings. HOEPA identifies a category of residential mortgage loans and subjects such loans to restrictions not applicable to other residential mortgage loans. Loans subject to HOEPA consist of loans on which certain points and fees or the annual percentage rate, known as the interest rate, exceed specified levels. Laws, rules and regulations have been adopted, or are under consideration, at the state and local levels that are similar to HOEPA in that they impose certain restrictions on loans that exceed certain cost parameters. These state and local laws generally have lower thresholds and broader prohibitions than under the federal law. The restrictions include prohibitions on steering borrowers into loans with high interest rates and away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, flipping or repeatedly refinancing loans and originating loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans without regard to the value of the mortgaged property. At this time we believe we are adhering to all city, county, state and federal restrictions. Compliance with some of these restrictions requires lenders to make subjective judgments, such as whether a loan will provide a “net tangible benefit” to the borrower. These restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a loan is underwritten and impact the way in which a loan is underwritten. The remedies for violations of these laws are not based on actual harm to the consumer and can result in damages that exceed the loan balance. Liability for violations of HOEPA, as well as violations of many of the state and local equivalents, would extend not only to us, but to assignees, which may include our warehouse lenders, whole-loan buyers and securitization trusts, regardless of whether such assignee knew of or participated in the violation. It is our policy not to originate or purchase loans that are subject to HOEPA or are defined by state and local laws as being predatory or high-cost, because the institutional purchasers of our loans and/or the warehouse lenders that provide financing for our loan origination operations do not wish to purchase or finance such loans. Rating agencies often refuse to rate any securitization including loans subject to these laws or may rate such transactions based on higher over-collateralization levels. If we miscalculate the numerical thresholds regulated by these loans, we may mistakenly originate or purchase such loans and bear the related marketplace and legal risks. The thresholds below which we try to originate loans may create artificial barriers to production and may limit the price at which we can offer loans to borrowers and our ability to underwrite, originate, sell and finance mortgage loans. Prior to our initial public offering, we ceased doing business for a period of time in Georgia, New Jersey and certain cities within Ohio because we believed compliance with these requirements could not be assured at a reasonable cost with the degree of certainty that we required, and we may cease doing business in additional jurisdictions in the future where we, or our counterparties, make similar determinations with respect to anti-predatory lending laws. We may decide to make a loan that is covered by one of these laws, rules or regulations if, in our judgment, the loan is made in accordance with our strict legal compliance standards and without undue risk relative to litigation or to the enforcement of the loan according to its terms. If we decide to relax our self-imposed restrictions on originating loans subject to these laws, rules and regulations, we will be subject to greater risks for actual or perceived non-compliance with the laws, rules and regulations, including demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from the parties to whom we broker or sell loans, class action lawsuits, increased defenses to foreclosure of individual loans in default, individual claims for significant monetary damages, and administrative enforcement actions. Any of the foregoing could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Some of our competitors that are national banks or federally chartered thrifts and their operating subsidiaries may not be subject to these state and local laws and may as a consequence be able to capture market share from us and other lenders. Federal regulators have expressed their position that these preemption provisions benefit mortgage subsidiaries of federally chartered institutions as well. In January 2004, the Comptroller of the Currency finalized preemption rules that confirm and expand the scope of this federal preemption for national banks and their operating subsidiaries. Such federal preemption rules and interpretations generally have been upheld in the courts. At least one national rating agency has announced, that in recognition of the benefits of federal preemption, it will not require additional credit enhancement by federal institutions when they issue securities backed by mortgages from a state that it deems to have anti-predatory lending laws with clear and objective standards. As a non-federal entity, we will continue to be subject to such rating agency requirements arising from state or local lending-related laws or regulations. Accordingly, as a mortgage lender that is generally subject to the laws of each state in which we do business, except as may specifically be provided in federal rules applicable to all lenders, we may be subject to state legal requirements and legal risks under state laws to which these federally regulated competitors are not subject, and this disparity may have the effect of giving those federal entities legal and competitive advantages. Passage of additional laws in other jurisdictions could increase compliance costs, lower fee income and lower origination volume, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. The United States Congress has recently considered legislation, such as the Ney-Kanjorski Responsible Lending Act introduced in 2005, which, among other provisions, would limit fees that a lender is permitted to charge, including prepayment fees, restrict the terms lenders are permitted to include in their loan agreements and increase the amount of disclosure required to be given to potential borrowers. We cannot predict whether or in what form Congress or the various state and local legislatures may enact legislation affecting our business. We are continually evaluating the potential impact of these initiatives, if enacted, on our lending practices and operations. As a consequence of these and other initiatives, we are unable to predict whether federal, state, or local authorities will require changes in our lending practices in the future, including reimbursement of fees charged to borrowers, or the possible imposition of fines. These changes, if required, could adversely affect our profitability, particularly if we make such changes in response to new or amended laws, regulations or ordinances in California, Illinois, Florida, Massachusetts, New Jersey, or New York, or any other state where we originate a significant portion of our mortgage loans. We are also seeing an evolution in the regulatory use of alternative means to impact the behavior of mortgage lenders as evidenced by the settlement announced in January 2006, between the retail subsidiaries of ACC Capital Holdings Corporation and 49 State Attorney’s General and the District of Columbia. It is plausible that the entire mortgage lending industry may be subject to additional evolving standards of conduct addressing the broad category of ethical behavior by way of state unfair and deceptive trade practices, which may increase our cost of production and subject us to additional regulatory oversight. Certain state laws restrict or prohibit the imposition of prepayment fees on mortgage loans. The value of a mortgage loan depends, in part, upon the expected period of time that the mortgage loan will be outstanding. If a borrower pays off a mortgage loan in advance of this expected period, the holder of the mortgage loan does not realize the full value expected to be received from the loan. A prepayment fee payable by a borrower who repays a loan earlier than expected helps offset the reduction in value resulting from the early payoff. Consequently, the value of a mortgage loan is enhanced to the extent the loan includes a prepayment fee, and a mortgage lender can offer a lower interest rate and/or lower loan fees on a loan that has a prepayment penalty. Prepayment fees are an important feature, which we rely upon to obtain a higher value on the loans we originate. Certain state laws restrict or prohibit the imposition of prepayment fees on mortgage loans. These restrictions prohibit us from charging any prepayment fee on first or subordinate mortgages in several states, and restrict the amount or duration of prepayment fees that we may impose in several states, as well. State laws 30 Table of Contents regulating prepayment fees vary widely from state to state. Generally speaking, these laws fall into the following four categories: (a) prohibiting prepayment fees for all mortgage loans or certain mortgage loans; (b) authorizing prepayment fees subject to certain conditions, such as the creditor being licensed for certain loans, or pursuant to a certain formula for a certain period of time; (c) prohibiting or restricting prepayment fees for mortgage loans covered under the state’s anti-predatory lending law, but not for other mortgage loans; and (d) including prepayment fees in the calculation of points and fees for purposes of determining whether a loan is covered by an anti-predatory lending law. Prohibited Prepayment Fees Blanket prohibitions on imposing prepayment fees may arise under one of two types of laws. First, some state licensing laws prohibit licensees from charging prepayment fees on loans that they originate. Alabama’s Consumer Finance Act is one such licensing law. Second, in the limited number of states that have enacted a version of the Uniform Consumer Credit Code, prepayment fees for mortgage loans covered by such laws are often prohibited, but prepayment fees for mortgage loans that are not covered by such laws may not be prohibited. Colorado is one such example. Authorized Prepayment Fees Subject to Certain Restrictions California’s Civil Code is an example of a law of general applicability that authorizes fees subject to certain conditions. The Civil Code permits most lenders to contract for a prepayment fee within the first five years of the loan’s repayment as long as the transaction is not subject to the provision of the state’s “covered loan” statute (in which case the “covered loan” must not include a prepayment penalty after the first 36 months). A prepayment fee may be imposed on any amount prepaid in any twelve month period in excess of 20% of the original principal amount of the loan, which charge must not exceed an amount equal to the payment of six months’ advance interest on the amount prepaid in excess of 20% of the original principal amount. Prepayment Fee Provisions Under State Anti-Predatory Lending Laws (i) Prohibiting or Restricting such Fees or (ii) Including such Fees in the Points and Fees Test Over the past few years, states have begun to adopt anti-predatory lending laws. These anti-predatory lending laws typically address prepayment fees in one of two ways: (i) in definitions of loans covered by the law; or (ii) in the prohibited terms and practices for such loans. With respect to defining the loans covered by the law, several laws include prepayment fees in the calculation of “points and fees” for purposes of determining whether a loan is covered by the anti-predatory loan provisions. For example, in New Jersey, lenders must include in the calculation: (i) the maximum amount of prepayment fees and penalties that may be charged or collected under the terms of the loan documents; and (ii) all prepayment fees or penalties that are incurred by the borrower if the loan refinances a previous loan made or currently held by the same creditor or an affiliate of the creditor. With respect to regulated practices, some predatory lending laws prohibit or severely restrict a lender’s ability to contract for a prepayment fee on loans covered by the law. For example, in Georgia, for any loan that constitutes a “high cost home loan,” a lender may not include a prepayment fee after two years or that exceeds in the aggregate: (i) in the first 12 months of the loan, more than 2% of the loan amount prepaid; or (ii) in the second 12 months of the loan, more than 1% of the loan amount prepaid. This may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to financial institutions such as national banks and federally-chartered thrifts that will continue to enjoy federal preemption of such state restrictions. Such institutions generally may be able to charge prepayment penalties without regard to state restrictions and, as a result, may be able to offer loans with interest rate and fee structures that are more attractive than the interest rate and fee structures that we are able to offer. 31 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed if courts in other jurisdictions take a course similar to that of the Appellate Court of Illinois by determining that certain federal laws do not preempt certain state statutes, which could expose us to litigation for fees charged in connection with loans we originated in their jurisdiction. On March 31, 2004, the Appellate Court of Illinois held, contrary to the understanding of many in the industry, that Section 501(a) of the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act, or DIDMCA, does not preempt the limitations on loan-related charges and fees contained in Section 4.1a of the Illinois Interest Act. If the Illinois Supreme Court had not overturned the Appellate Court’s decision, we might have reduced our operations in Illinois to reduce our exposure to litigation concerning fees we charged in connection with Illinois loans. Any such litigation, if decided against us, could have had a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If courts in other jurisdictions follow the Appellate Court of Illinois, we could be exposed to similar litigation in those jurisdictions, which may cause us to limit our operations in those locations. The broad scope of our operations exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. Because we may originate and purchase mortgage loans in all 50 states, we must comply with the laws and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, of all of these jurisdictions, as well as an extensive body of federal laws and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years, and, in addition, individual cities and counties have begun to enact laws that restrict nonconforming loan origination activities in those cities and counties. State and local governmental authorities have focused on the lending practices of companies in the nonconforming mortgage lending industry, sometimes seeking to impose sanctions for practices such as charging excessive fees, imposing interest rates higher than warranted by the credit risk of the borrower, failing to adequately disclose the material terms of loans and abusive servicing and collection practices. The laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions are different, complex and, in some cases, in direct conflict with each other. As our operations continue to grow, it may be more difficult to comprehensively identify and to accurately interpret applicable laws and regulations and to employ properly our policies, procedures and systems and effectively train our personnel with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with this regulatory regimen can lead to: • civil and criminal liability, including potential monetary penalties; • loss of lending licenses or approved status required for continued lending and servicing operations; • demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from purchasers of our loans; • legal defenses causing delay and expense; • adverse effects on the servicer’s ability to enforce loans; • the borrower having the right to rescind, void, or cancel the loan transaction; • adverse publicity; • individual and class action lawsuits; • administrative enforcement actions; • damage to our reputation in the industry; • inability to sell or securitize our loans; • loss of the ability to obtain ratings on our securitizations by rating agencies; or • inability to obtain credit to fund our operations. 32 Table of Contents Although we have systems and procedures directed to compliance with these legal requirements and believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations, we cannot assure you that more restrictive laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that governmental bodies will not interpret existing laws or regulations in a more restrictive manner, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive. These applicable laws and regulations are subject to administrative or judicial interpretation, but some of these laws and regulations have been enacted only recently or may be interpreted infrequently. As a result of infrequent or sparse interpretations, ambiguities in these laws and regulations may leave uncertainty with respect to permitted or restricted conduct under them. Any ambiguity under a law to which we are subject may lead to regulatory investigations, governmental enforcement actions or private causes of action, such as class action lawsuits, with respect to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Furthermore, judicial resolution of regulatory issues related to our industry, even where we are not involved directly, could impose additional regulations or standards upon us that may materially increase our costs of doing business or restrict our ability to conduct our business as we currently operate. If financial institutions face exposure stemming from legal violations committed by the companies to which they provide financing or underwriting services, this could increase our borrowing costs and negatively affect the market for whole-loans and mortgage-backed securities. In June 2003, a California jury found a warehouse lender and securitization underwriter liable in part for fraud on consumers committed by a lender to whom it provided financing and underwriting services. The jury found that the investment bank was aware of the fraud and substantially assisted the lender in perpetrating the fraud by providing financing and underwriting services that allowed the lender to continue to operate, and held it liable for 10% of the plaintiff’s damages. This is the first case we know of in which an investment bank was held partly responsible for violations committed by a mortgage lender customer. Shortly after the announcement of the jury verdict in the California case, the Florida Attorney General filed suit against the same financial institution, seeking an injunction to prevent it from financing mortgage loans within Florida, as well as damages and civil penalties, based on theories of unfair and deceptive trade practices and fraud. The suit claims that this financial institution aided and abetted the same lender involved in the California case in its commission of fraudulent representations in Florida. As of the date of this annual report, there has been no ruling in this case. If other courts or regulators adopt this “aiding and abetting” theory, investment banks may face increased litigation as they are named as defendants in lawsuits and regulatory actions against the mortgage companies with which they do business. Some investment banks may exit the business, charge more for warehouse lending and reduce the prices they pay for whole-loans in order to build in the costs of this potential litigation. This could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. If we are unable to maintain and expand our network of independent brokers, our loan origination business will decrease. Substantially all of our originations of mortgage loans comes from independent brokers in our wholesale operation. In 2005, 50 brokers originated approximately 24% of our mortgage loans. The brokers with whom we associate are not contractually obligated to do business with us. Further, our competitors also have relationships with the same brokers with whom we associate and actively compete with us in our efforts to obtain loans from these brokers and to expand our broker network. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in maintaining our existing relationships or expanding our broker network, the failure of which could negatively affect the volume and pricing of our loans, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. If our servicers fail to adequately service the loans we originate and sell, this could negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We currently outsource the servicing of all the loans we originate. For the loans we originate and hold for sale and loans we securitize, we enter into servicing agreements with a third party. If a servicer were to terminate 33 Table of Contents the agreement or refuse or be unable to provide the necessary service, our choices for a new servicer may be limited and we may not be able to identify another servicer at the same cost or at all. With respect to the loans we securitize, if we are unable to engage another servicer, in addition to providing the servicing of the loans, we may be obligated to make advances for delinquent payments and other servicing-related costs may be increased, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Poor servicing and collections for which we are reliant on third-party servicers or a transfer of servicing could adversely affect the amount or value of the cash flow received from our securitized portfolio, the value of our residual interests, our ability to sell or securitize loans and increase the likelihood that repurchase obligations are triggered, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, other vendors and our employees. When we originate mortgage loans, we rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal, title information, and employment and income documentation. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the actual value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsaleable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. Entities making misrepresentations are often difficult to locate, and it is often difficult to collect any monetary losses we have suffered from them. We cannot assure you that we have detected or will detect all misrepresented information in our loan originations. We may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent brokers. The mortgage brokers from which we obtain loans have parallel and separate legal obligations to which they are subject. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders responsible for the legal violations of mortgage brokers, increasingly federal and state agencies have sought to impose such assignee liability. For example, the FTC entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender where the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its loan production with a single lender as the “agent” of the lender; the FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as “principal,” the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage broker’s unfair and deceptive acts and practices. In the past, the United States Department of Justice has sought to hold a mortgage lender responsible for the pricing practices of its mortgage brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender was directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage broker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent mortgage broker customers. Stockholder, director and officer refusal to comply with regulatory requirements may interfere with our ability to do business in certain states. Some states in which we operate may impose regulatory requirements on our officers and directors and persons holding certain amounts, usually 10% or more (but in some cases 5%), of our common stock. If any such person fails to meet or refuses to comply with a state’s applicable regulatory requirements for mortgage lending, we could lose our authority to conduct business in that state. In many states, unless waived, certain officers, directors and/or securityholders of a license applicant are required to provide certain personal background and/or financial disclosures. In some states, unless waived, certain officers, directors or securityholders of a license applicant are required to submit fingerprint cards for 34 Table of Contents processing by law enforcement agencies. Failure to submit the required personal background or financial disclosures or fingerprint cards could lead to the denial of a license application. We have made the required submissions, in connection with applying for the state licenses required for us to originate, purchase, and/or table fund mortgage loans, in all states except for New York. As new officers or directors are appointed, or as additional investors acquire the requisite shares of stock, the background or financial disclosures or fingerprint card submissions may need to be filed in some states, which may be done as part of the license renewal process in some of these states. Failure to submit required background, financial disclosures, or fingerprint cards could lead to a fine or license suspension or revocation. We are subject to significant legal and reputational risks and expenses under federal and state laws concerning privacy, use and security of customer information. The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley financial reform legislation imposes significant privacy obligations on us in connection with the collection, use and security of financial and other nonpublic information provided to us by applicants and borrowers. To date, thirty states have either enacted or are considering enacting even more stringent privacy or customer-information-security breach legislation. Because laws and rules concerning the use and protection of customer information are continuing to develop at the federal and state levels, we expect to incur increased costs in our effort to be and remain in full compliance with these requirements. Nevertheless, despite our efforts we will be subject to legal and reputational risks in connection with our collection and use of customer information, and we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to lawsuits or compliance actions under such state or federal privacy requirements. To the extent that a variety of inconsistent state privacy rules or requirements are enacted, our compliance costs could substantially increase. The inability to attract and retain qualified employees could significantly harm our business. We depend on our account executives to attract borrowers by, among other things, developing relationships with other financial institutions, mortgage companies, real estate agents and brokers, and others. These relationships lead to repeat and referral business. The market for skilled account executives and loan officers is highly competitive. Competition for qualified account executives and loan officers may lead to increased hiring and retention costs. If we are unable to attract or retain a sufficient number of skilled account executives and loan officers at manageable costs, it could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We must continue to motivate employees and keep them focused on our strategies and goals, which may be particularly difficult due to morale challenges posed by workforce reductions and general uncertainty. The success and growth of our business will depend upon our ability to adapt to and implement technological changes to remain competitive and any failure to do so could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Our mortgage loan origination business is currently dependent upon our ability to interface effectively with our brokers, borrowers and other third parties and to process loan applications and closings efficiently. The origination process is becoming more dependent upon technological advancement, such as our continued ability to process applications over the Internet, accept electronic signatures, provide process status updates instantly and other customer-expected conveniences that are cost-efficient to our process. Maintaining and improving this new technology and becoming proficient with it may also require significant capital expenditures. As these requirements increase in the future, we will have to develop fully these technological capabilities to remain competitive and any failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our automated underwriting system and data centers against damage. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our computer equipment and the information stored in our data centers against damage that may be caused by fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses and disabling devices, natural disasters and other similar events. We 35 Table of Contents cannot assure you that a fire or other natural disaster would not result in a prolonged disruption of our automated underwriting system or permanently impair some of our operations. A prolonged service disruption or other impairment of operations could damage our reputation with customers, expose us to liability, cause us to lose existing customers or increase our difficulty in attracting new ones. We may also incur significant costs for using alternative off-site equipment. We are exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to residential properties, and, if we do take title, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. In such a circumstance, we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we make any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may attempt to acquire businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. We currently have no agreements to consummate any material acquisitions. Any such acquisitions that are material to us would generally require the prior approval of our stockholders. If we pursue any such transaction, the process of negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired business may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our charter prohibits certain entities from owning our shares, which might reduce the demand for our shares by limiting the potential purchasers of our shares. If certain types of entities hold our shares, then a tax will be imposed on us if we hold a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC, and, although the law on the matter is unclear, a tax might be imposed on us if we hold an interest in a taxable mortgage pool. To prevent us from being required to pay this tax in that event, our charter prohibits our shares from being held by the entities that might cause this tax to be imposed on us. These entities include: the United States; any state or political subdivision thereof; any foreign government; any international organization; any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing; any other tax-exempt organization, other than a farmer’s cooperative described in section 521 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”), as amended, that is both exempt from income taxation and exempt from taxation under the unrelated business taxable income provisions of the Code; and any rural electrical or telephone cooperative. Provisions of our charter and Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% 36 Table of Contents or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special super majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares; and • “unsolicited takeover” provisions of Maryland law that permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to implement possible takeover defenses, such as a classified board or two-third vote requirement for removal of a director that we are not yet eligible to have. We have opted out of the control share provisions of the MGCL pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, we may, by amendment to our bylaws, become subject to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. We have also, by resolution of our board of directors, excluded any business combination with us from the business combination provisions of the MGCL. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. There can also be no assurance that the “unsolicited takeover” provisions that we are not yet eligible to have will not be implemented by our board of directors in the future. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our board of directors. These provisions include the following: • There are ownership limits and restrictions on transferability in our charter. Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and to limit any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 5.6% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock and no more than 5.6% in value of our outstanding capital stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from these ownership limits. However, our board of directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose actual or constructive ownership, of in excess of 5.6% of the value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock could jeopardize our status as a REIT. Steven G. Holder and Shabi S. Asghar, together with each of their respective affiliates, will each be permitted to own up to 19.58% and 12.92%, respectively, of our common stock. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if our board of directors determines that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. These ownership limits may delay or impede a transaction or a change of control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. • Our charter permits our board of directors to issue common stock or preferred stock, without any action by our stockholders, with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption of the classified shares. As a result, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of common stock or preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price of our shares. • Our charter and bylaws contain other possible anti-takeover provisions. Our charter and bylaws contain other provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of us or the removal of existing directors and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their common stock over the then prevailing market price. 37 Table of Contents • Removal of Directors. Under our charter, subject to the rights of one or more future classes or series of preferred stock to elect or remove one or more directors, a director may be removed only for cause and then only by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all votes entitled to be cast by our stockholders generally in the election of directors. • Stockholder-Requested Special Meetings. Our bylaws provide that our stockholders have the right to call a special meeting only upon the written request of the stockholders entitled to cast not less than a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders at such meeting. • Number of Directors, Board Vacancies, Term of Office. Our charter and bylaws provide a majority of the entire board of directors with the right to determine the number of directors; however, the number of directors may not be fewer than one, as required by Maryland law, or more than fifteen. Vacancies on the board may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, whether or not constituting a quorum. In addition, a vacancy on the board of directors resulting from the removal of a director may also be filled by the stockholders. We have provided in our charter that, once we have a class of equity securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and have at least three independent directors, the board of directors has the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, to fill all vacancies on the board of directors, including those resulting from the removal of a director or an increase in the number of directors, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum, and any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor is elected and qualifies. • Advance Notice Provisions for Stockholder Nominations and Proposals. Our bylaws require advance written notice for stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of stockholders. This bylaw provision limits the ability of stockholders to make nominations of individuals for election as directors or to introduce other proposals unless we are notified in a timely manner prior to the meeting. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter, in the case of directors and officers, will require us to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the full extent permitted by Maryland law. Maryland law permits us to include in our charter a provision limiting the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for monetary damages, except for liability resulting from (a) actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services, or (b) active and deliberate dishonesty established by final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. Our charter contains a provision that eliminates directors and officers’ liability to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act. The Investment Company Act exempts entities that are primarily engaged in the business of purchasing or otherwise acquiring mortgages and other liens on and interests in real estate. To qualify for this exemption, we must maintain at least 55% of our assets directly in mortgages, qualifying pass-through certificates and certain other qualifying interests in real estate. Our ownership of certain mortgage assets may be limited by the provisions of the Investment Company Act. If the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, adopts a contrary interpretation with respect to these securities or 38 Table of Contents otherwise believes we do not satisfy the above exception, we could be required to restructure our activities or sell certain of our assets. To insure that we continue to qualify for the exemption, we may be required at times to adopt less efficient methods of financing certain of our mortgage assets and we may be precluded from acquiring certain types of higher-yielding mortgage assets. The net effect of these factors will be to lower our net interest income. If we fail to qualify for exemption from registration as an investment company, we will need to restructure our business to qualify for exemption from registration or register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we are required to register as an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would not be able to conduct our business as described. Messrs. Holder and Asghar, together with their respective affiliates, own in the aggregate approximately 29% of our outstanding common stock and there may be circumstances under which the interests of Messrs. Holder and Asghar and the interests of the holders of the remainder of our common stock will not be aligned. Messrs. Holder and Asghar, together with their respective affiliates, own in the aggregate approximately 29% of our outstanding common stock. This may enable them to exercise substantial influence over the management of our company and on the outcome of any matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Circumstances may arise in which the interests of Messrs. Holder and Asghar could be in conflict with the interests of our stockholders. The concentration of ownership of our company may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our company, may discourage bids for our stock at a premium over the market price and may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Qualification and Operation as a REIT Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our common stock. We currently operate in a manner that is intended to enable us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2005. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, that we qualify as a REIT, and the statements in this annual report are not binding on the IRS or any court. If we were to lose our REIT status, we would face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: • we would not be required to make, nor would we be entitled to a deduction for, any distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be required to pay federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • we could be required to pay the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to our stockholders. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the ownership of our shares, the composition of our assets and a requirement that at least 95% of our gross income in any year be derived from qualifying sources, such as interest on mortgage loans. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding capital gains. 39 Table of Contents Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be required to pay some federal, state and local taxes on our income or property and, in certain cases, a 100% penalty tax in the event we sell property, including mortgage loans, as a dealer or if a taxable REIT subsidiary of ours, including Encore Credit, Encore Credit Corporation of Minnesota or Bravo Credit, enters into an agreement with us on a basis that is determined to be other than arm’s-length. In addition, any taxable REIT subsidiary we own will be required to pay federal, state and local income taxes on its taxable income, as well as any other applicable taxes. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income each year, excluding capital gains, and we will be required to pay regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we will be required to pay a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. We intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid currently corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. However, differences in timing between the recognition of REIT taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures could require us to (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow funds on unfavorable terms, or (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt in order to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund investment activities. We expect to fund our investments, initially, by raising capital and, subsequently, through borrowings from financial institutions, along with securitization financings. Our failure to obtain debt or equity capital in the future could limit our ability to grow, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Recognition of excess inclusion income by us could have adverse tax consequences to us or our stockholders. We may recognize excess inclusion income and our stockholders may be required to treat a portion of the distributions they receive as excess inclusion income. Excess inclusion income may not be offset with net operating losses, represents unrelated business taxable income in the hands of an otherwise tax-exempt shareholder, and is subject to withholding tax, without regard to otherwise applicable exemptions or rate reductions, to the extent such income is allocable to a shareholder who is not a U.S. person. Generally, excess inclusion income is the income allocable to a REMIC residual interest in excess of the income that would have been allocable to such interest if it were a bond having a yield to maturity equal to 120% of the long-term applicable federal rate, which is a rate based on the weighted average yields of treasury securities and is published monthly by the IRS for use in various tax calculations. If a REIT holds 100% of the sole class of equity interest in a non-REMIC multi-class mortgage-backed securities offering that qualifies as a borrowing for federal income tax purposes, the equity interest retained by the REIT, under regulations that have not yet been issued, will be subject to rules similar to those applicable to a REMIC residual interest. We believe we have structured our securitization transactions to qualify as non-REMIC financing transactions for federal income tax purposes. As a result, from time to time, we may recognize excess inclusion income attributable to the equity interests we retain in those securitization transactions. If we recognize excess inclusion income, we may, under regulations that have not yet been issued, have to allocate the excess inclusion income to the distributions we make to our stockholders to the extent our REIT taxable income (taking into account the dividends paid deduction) is less than the sum of our excess inclusions for the taxable year. If a portion of the distributions we distribute to you are characterized as excess inclusion income, then you will be taxed with respect to that excess inclusion income in the same manner that you would be taxed if you held a REMIC residual interest directly. 40 Table of Contents Generally, to maintain our REIT status, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gains) in each year. To the extent the sum of our excess inclusion income is less than 10% of our total taxable income, we may elect to pay tax on such excess inclusion income rather than treating a portion of our distributions as comprising excess inclusion income. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. At the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must satisfy four tests relating to the nature and composition of our assets. First, at least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets, cash, cash items and government securities. For purposes of this test, real estate assets include stock or debt instruments that are purchased with the proceeds of a stock offering or a public offering of debt with a term of at least five years, but only for the one-year period beginning on the date we receive such proceeds. Second, not more than 25% of our total assets may be represented by securities, other than those securities includable in the 75% asset test. Third, of the investments included in the 25% asset class, and except for investments in REITs, qualified REIT subsidiaries and taxable REIT subsidiaries, the value of any one issuer’s securities may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets, and we may not own more than 10% of the total vote or value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer except, in the case of the 10% value test, certain “straight debt” and other excluded securities, as described in the Code. Fourth, not more than 20% of the value of our total assets may be represented by the securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to satisfy an asset test because we acquire securities or other property during a quarter, we may cure this failure by disposing of sufficient non-qualifying assets within 30 days after the close of that quarter. In addition, other cure provisions may be available to us in the event we fail to meet the REIT qualifications tests. Although we plan to take steps to ensure that we satisfy such tests for any quarter with respect to which testing is to occur, there can be no assurance that such steps will always be successful, or will not require a reduction in our overall interest in an issuer. If we fail to timely cure any noncompliance with the asset tests and certain relief provisions do not apply, we could cease to qualify as a REIT. U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs and investments in REITs may change, which may cause us to lose the tax benefits of operating as a REIT. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of a REIT and an investment in a REIT may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time. Revisions to U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations of these laws could adversely affect us and the tax consequences of an investment in our securities. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 