Item 1A. Risk Factors Statements made by us in this annual report and in other reports and statements released by us that are not historical facts constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, Section 21 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are necessarily estimates reflecting the best judgment of senior management and include comments that express our opinions about trends and factors that may impact future operating results. Disclosures that use words such as we “believe,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “intend,” “could,” “plan,” “expect” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Such statements rely on a number of assumptions concerning future events, many of which are outside of our control, and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from opinions and expectations. Any such forward-looking statements, whether made in this annual report or elsewhere, should be considered in context of the various disclosures made by us about our businesses including, without limitation, the risk factors discussed below. We do not plan to update any such forward-looking statements and expressly disclaim any duty to update the information contained in this annual report, except as required by law. We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks. The following discussion highlights some of these risks and others are discussed elsewhere in this annual report. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, operating results and cash flows. Risks Related to Our Business Activities We are limited in our future operations since we agreed not to compete in wholesale subprime lending until February 2009 in connection with selling our wholesale lending operations to Bear Stearns. Substantially all of our mortgage loans that we securitized were originated through our wholesale mortgage operations. When we sold the wholesale mortgage operations to Bear Stearns in February 2007, we agreed not to compete in the wholesale subprime mortgage brokerage or correspondent business for two years. As a result, we are significantly limited in our ability to originate the subprime mortgage loans we would use to further build our loan portfolio and securitize. This limitation could negatively impact our cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The nonconforming mortgage loans we hold in our securitizations and in inventory generally have higher delinquency and default rates than prime mortgage loans, which could result in losses on loans that we retain or are required to repurchase. The nonconforming mortgage loans we hold generally have higher delinquency and default rates than prime mortgage loans. Delinquency interrupts the flow of projected interest income from a mortgage loan, and default can ultimately lead to a loss if the net realizable value of the real property securing the mortgage loan is insufficient to cover the principal and interest due on the loan. Also, our cost of financing and servicing a delinquent or defaulted loan is generally higher than for a performing loan. When we securitize we bear exposure to delinquencies and losses through our residual interests and the loans underlying our on-balance sheet securitization transactions. We have established allowances based on our anticipated delinquencies and losses. We also re-acquire the risks of delinquency and default for loans that we are obligated to repurchase. We attempted to manage these risks with risk-based loan pricing and appropriate underwriting policies and loan collection methods. However, if such policies and methods are insufficient to control our delinquency and default risks and do not result in appropriate loss allowances, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be harmed. 8 Table of Contents Our prior internal underwriting standards used to qualify loans which we hold for investment may not provide adequate protection against the risks inherent in nonconforming residential mortgage loans and as a result, our cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, including any net interest income from securitizations, could be materially harmed. A substantial portion of the loans we originated were underwritten generally in accordance with our underwriting guidelines that are intended to provide for nonconforming residential mortgages. The mortgage industry often refers to mortgage loans that are eligible for sale to government-sponsored entities, such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, under both size and credit characteristics, as conforming or prime loans, while those mortgage loans that do not satisfy the credit, documentation or other underwriting standards prescribed by those government sponsored entities are often referred to as nonconforming loans. Accordingly, mortgage loans underwritten under our underwriting standards are likely to experience rates of delinquency, foreclosure and loss that are higher, and may be substantially higher, than mortgage loans originated in accordance with Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac underwriting guidelines. We cannot be certain that our underwriting criteria will afford adequate protection against the higher risks associated with loans made to such borrowers. If we are unable to mitigate these risks, our cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, including any net interest income from securitizations, could be materially harmed. Our adjustable rate mortgage products expose us to greater credit risk. Through our securitizations, as of December 31, 2006, we hold interests in adjustable rate mortgages or ARM loans totaling $1.8 billion, or 76.0% of our total portfolio. Since the payment is subject to adjustment at some future point in time, if interest rates increase, the borrower’s income may not be able to support the monthly payment on the loan when the formerly fixed payment adjusts upward to reflect the increased interest rate. During 2007, we expect that the initial fixed interest rate periods for a majority of the ARM loans we securitized in 2005 will expire. As they expire, it is likely that the interest rate on the loans will increase, thereby increasing the monthly payment amounts. This increase in the monthly payment amounts may lead to increased default rates and losses. Our interest-only loans may have a higher risk of default than our fully-amortizing loans. Through our securitizations, as of December 31, 2006, we hold interests in interest-only loans totaling $0.5 billion, or 20.0% of our total portfolio. These interest-only loans require the borrowers to make monthly payments only of accrued interest for the first 24, 36, 120 or 160 months following origination. After such interest-only period, the borrower’s monthly payment is recalculated to cover both interest and principal so that the mortgage loan will amortize fully prior to its final payment date. The interest-only feature may reduce the likelihood of prepayment during the interest-only period due to the smaller monthly payments relative to a fully-amortizing mortgage loan. If the monthly payment increases, the related borrower may not be able to pay the increased amount and may default or may refinance the related mortgage loan to avoid the higher payment. Because no principal payments may be made on such mortgage loans for an extended period following origination, if the borrower defaults, the unpaid principal balance of the related loans would be greater than otherwise would be the case for a fully-amortizing loan, increasing the risk of loss on these loans. Declining real estate values and tightening credit standards could harm our operations. Declining real estate values and tightening credit standards significantly increase the likelihood that we will incur increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures and losses on loans we own or in our securitization portfolio or in inventory in the event of default. During periods of declining real estate values borrowers may be less likely to make payments if they feel their home is losing value. In addition, if credit standards tighten, borrowers who have financial difficulty and need cash quickly may not be able to access equity in their home and, as a result, may forgo making their mortgage payment to obtain cash. Therefore, any sustained period of declining real estate values or tightening credit standards could adversely affect both our net interest income from loans in our 9 Table of Contents securitized mortgage loan portfolio and loan inventory which would significantly harm the cash flows we receive from our securitizations, results of operations and value of loans in inventory, availability of credit, financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to our stockholders. Our business requires a significant amount of cash, and if it is not available, our business and financial performance will be significantly harmed. We need cash to satisfy our working capital and minimum REIT distribution requirements and to maintain solvency. Although we do not currently fund new loans or have any warehouse agreements, it is possible that we may obtain warehouse facilities and fund loans that subject us to financial covenants. We may also require cash to fund any future retail loan originations and to pay loan origination expenses. We may finance any loans we make in the future in our retail business with cash on hand or by borrowing from a warehouse facility and pledging the loans made as collateral. If the value of the loans we pledged as collateral declines, we may need cash to offset any decline in value. In addition, if our minimum distribution requirements to maintain our REIT status become large relative to our cash flow as a result of our income exceeding our cash flow, we may be forced to borrow to raise capital in order to maintain our REIT qualification. Any borrowings may be on unfavorable terms or may not be available at all. Our primary sources of cash consist of our net interest income and net proceeds from the sale of our securities. Should we choose to acquire pools of loans in the future pending the sale or securitization of these mortgage loans, they may be financed through borrowings from warehouse facilities. It is possible that these warehouse lenders could experience changes in their ability to advance funds to us, independent of our performance or the performance of our loans. In addition, if the regulatory capital requirements imposed on our future warehouse lenders change, these lenders may be required to increase significantly the cost of the lines of credit that they provide to us. If we fail to comply with financial covenants in any of our warehouse facilities in the future and are not able to cure the non-compliance or obtain the necessary waiver, these facilities may be terminated by the lender. The covenants and restrictions in any future warehouse facilities may restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • make certain investments and other restricted payments; • pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • grant liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • engage in mergers or consolidations, transfer substantially all of our assets or other events constituting a change in control; • finance loans with certain attributes; • reduce liquidity below certain levels; and • hold loans for longer than established time periods. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing, to engage in other business activities or to make distributions if we are not in compliance with these covenants, which may materially harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents If we use a warehouse facility we generally will fund less than 100% of a loan balance with warehouse debt, requiring us to invest cash to the extent the originated balance is not funded by the warehouse facility. This funding shortfall generally ranges from 0% to 2% or greater on newly originated loans. The longer loans remain funded by a warehouse facility the more our warehouse lenders require us to advance against the loans. In addition, warehouse lenders may require us to have on deposit a cash margin against funded loans based upon the loan’s estimated market value. The market for any senior or subordinate securities we issue through securitizations could become temporarily illiquid or trade at steep discounts, thereby reducing the cash flow we receive over time from our loans subject to the securities. In addition, our operating cash flow could be reduced if we sell more loans at a discount than at a premium. Cash flows from principal repayments could be reduced should prepayments slow or should credit quality trends deteriorate (in the latter case since, for certain of our assets, credit tests must be met for us to receive cash flows). In the event that our liquidity needs exceed our access to liquidity, we may need to sell assets at an inopportune time, thus reducing our earnings. Adverse cash flow could threaten our continued ability to satisfy the income and asset tests necessary to maintain our status as a REIT or our solvency. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify investors if we breach representations and warranties, which could adversely impact our earnings. In order to sell loans we have been required and may be required in the future to make customary representations and warranties about such loans to the loan purchaser. These whole-loan sale agreements require us to repurchase or substitute loans in the event we breach a representation or warranty given to the loan purchaser or make a misrepresentation during the mortgage loan origination process. In the case of securitized loans, we may be required to replace them with substitute loans or cash. In addition, we may be required to repurchase loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default on a mortgage loan. The remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans are generally broader than those available to us against the originating broker. Further, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to enforce the remedies we have against the broker. The repurchased loans typically can only be financed at a steep discount to their repurchase price, if at all. Even if we are able to resell the repurchased loans, repurchased loans are typically sold at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance. Significant repurchase activity could negatively affect our cash flow and results of operations. If we do not maintain the appropriate state licenses we will not be allowed to originate, purchase and service mortgage loans in some states, which would adversely affect our operations. State mortgage finance licensing laws vary considerably. Most states and the District of Columbia require a license in order to originate first and/or subordinate residential mortgage loans. In most of these states, the required license covers both first mortgage and subordinate mortgage loans. In some states, a separate license or additional license is needed to originate subordinate mortgage loans. In some of the states that require a license to originate residential mortgage loans, a license is also required to purchase closed mortgage loans. If we are unable to obtain and maintain the appropriate state licenses, our operations may be adversely affected. In some states a license is also required to service or act as the master servicer of loans held in a securitization. The use of securitizations with credit enhancement requirements may have a negative impact on our cash flow and could adversely impact our business. In connection with our securitizations, we generally provided credit enhancement designed to improve the price at which we sell the securities. We may provide this credit enhancement by providing over- collateralization, paying for financial guaranty insurance policies for the loans, or both. If we use over-collateralization, we will either be required to use cash to fund the over-collateralization amount up front or we may fund the over-collateralization amount through the net interest spread, which would result in us not 11 Table of Contents receiving cash flows from the transaction until the over-collateralization balance reaches certain predefined levels. If we use financial guaranty insurance policies and the expense of these insurance policies increases or the policy insurers are unable to pay claims presented by us, the net interest income we receive will be reduced. While we plan to use credit enhancement features in the future, we cannot assure you that these features will be available at costs that would allow us to achieve the desired level of net interest income from the securitizations of mortgage loans that we anticipate being able to achieve. In addition, if the performance of our loans pledged to collateralize the securities were worse than certain parameters defined in the securitization documents, then the net interest income we otherwise would have received would be held to build up over-collateralization reserves to provide additional credit enhancements for the senior securities still outstanding at that time. Our securitizations may restrict our cash flow if loan delinquencies or losses exceed certain levels. The terms of securitizations generally provide that, if certain delinquencies and/or losses exceed specified levels, the required level of additional collateral provided as a credit enhancement for the benefit of the investors, or over-collateralization, may be increased or may be prevented from being released as would otherwise be permitted if losses and/or delinquencies did not exceed those levels. An increase in the level of over-collateralization required may restrict our ability to receive cash from net interest income from securitization transactions and could adversely impact our business. The limited specific loan performance data on the loans we have originated and sold previously makes it difficult to predict the performance of loans we retain and any revenues from future securitizations. Prior to 2005, we sold substantially all of the loans that we originated on a whole-loan basis, and, until recently, we did not receive loan performance data on these loans from the servicers. As a result, we have limited default, delinquency, loss, and prepayment experience on these loans. Consequently, the historical delinquency, bankruptcy, foreclosure, default or prepayment experience that may be referred to for purposes of estimating future default, delinquency, loss and prepayment experience of our originated loans may not be representative of actual performance. In view of the limited historical loan performance data available to us, it is extremely difficult to validate our loss or prepayment assumptions used to calculate assumed net interest income in existing and future securitizations of our loans, which could cause us to receive less favorable pricing terms on the mortgage-backed securities we issue than more seasoned issuers with a proven performance record receive. However, general industry loan performance data shows an increase in delinquency rates and we anticipate that our delinquency rates will increase accordingly. Differences between our assumptions and actual performance may have a material adverse effect on the pricing, interest rates and over-collateralization levels of our mortgage-backed securities and could have a material adverse effect on the timing and receipt of our future revenues, the value of the residual interests held on our balance sheet and our cash flow. In a period of rising interest rates, our earnings may decrease. We expect our primary interest rate exposure to relate to our mortgage loans, mortgage-backed securities and variable-rate debt, as well as the exchange of a fixed amount per payment period for a payment that is not fixed, or interest rate swaps, and option contracts which put an upper limit on a floating exchange rate, or caps, that we utilize for risk management purposes. Changes in interest rates may affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning investments and the interest expense we incur in financing these investments. Changes in the level of interest rates also can affect our ability to originate or acquire mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase while the interest we earn on our assets might not change as rapidly due to our strategy of funding hybrid/adjustable-rate or fixed-rate assets with floating-rate liabilities. In addition, while the interest we earn on the hybrid/adjustable rate loans we hold for investment is often capped at predetermined maximums, the rate payable on liabilities such as the notes issued in our securitization transactions may be uncapped. These changes would adversely affect our profitability. 12 Table of Contents A significant amount of the mortgage loans in our securitizations are secured by property in California, Florida, Illinois and New York, and our operations could be harmed by economic downturns or natural disasters in these states. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 37%, 12%, 7% and 6% of the mortgage loans in our securitizations are secured by property in California, Florida, Illinois and New York, respectively. Declines in the economy generally or residential real estate markets in any of these states may increase losses in the event of foreclosure, which would hurt our earnings. The occurrence of a natural disaster may cause a sudden decrease in the value of real estate in any of these states and would likely reduce the value of the properties collateralizing the mortgage loans in our securitizations. Historically, California has been vulnerable to earthquakes, erosion-caused mudslides and wildfires, and Florida has been vulnerable to tropical storms, hurricanes and tornadoes. Since such natural disasters are not typically covered by the standard hazard insurance policies maintained by many borrowers, the borrowers have to pay for repairs due to such disasters. If the property is damaged, uninsured borrowers may not repair the property or may stop paying their mortgage loans. This would cause the number of foreclosures to increase and decrease our ability to recover losses on properties affected by the disasters. New legislative restrictions impacting telemarketing activities may harm our ability to market our loan products. Federal and state laws regulate telemarketing practices, and may adversely impact our business. Enacted in 1991 and 1994, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act and Telemarketing Consumer Fraud and Abuse Prevention Act, respectively, are designed to restrict unsolicited advertising using the telephone and facsimile machine. Since they were enacted, however, telemarketing practices have changed significantly due to new technologies that make it easier to target potential customers while at the same time making it more cost effective to do so. The Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, and the United States Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, have responsibility for regulating various aspects of these laws, such as regulating unwanted telephone solicitations and the use of automated telephone dialing systems, prerecorded or artificial voice messages, and telephone facsimile machines. In 2003, both agencies adopted “do-not-call” registry requirements, which, in part, mandate that companies such as us maintain and regularly update lists of consumers who have chosen not to be called. These requirements also mandate that we do not call consumers who have chosen to be on the list. During the same time, many states have also adopted similar laws, with which we believe we also comply at this time. As with other regulatory requirements, these provisions impose additional regulatory and compliance costs on us and reduce the effectiveness of our marketing programs. They would also subject us to fines and penalties for failure to adhere to these requirements. If many of our borrowers become subject to the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act of 2003, our cash flows and interest income may be adversely affected. Under the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, which in 2003 re-enacted the Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Civil Relief Act of 1940, or the Civil Relief Act, members of the military services on active duty receive certain protections and benefits. Under the Civil Relief Act, a borrower who enters active military service after the origination of his or her mortgage loan generally may not be required to pay interest above an annual rate of 6%, and the lender is restricted from exercising certain enforcement remedies, including foreclosure, during the period of the borrower’s active duty status. The Civil Relief Act also applies to a borrower who was on reserve status and is called to active duty after origination of the mortgage loan. Considering the large number of U.S. Armed Forces personnel on active duty and likely to be on active duty in the future, compliance with the Civil Relief Act could reduce our cash flow and the interest payments collected from those borrowers, and in the event of default or delay, prevent us from exercising the remedies for default that otherwise would be available to us. 13 Table of Contents Should we expand into other lending operations or diversify portfolio investments, we will need to manage our growth effectively, or our financial performance will be harmed. We have exited the subprime wholesale origination business and our operations and portfolio have been reduced. Should we expand our business in the future, our ability to manage any type of rapid growth may have a material adverse effect on our future performance. Any significant growth will place certain pressures on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Loan prepayment rates may increase, adversely affecting yields on our current and planned investments. The value of the assets we hold may be affected by prepayment rates on mortgage loans. Prepayment rates on mortgage loans are influenced by changes in current interest rates and a variety of economic, geographic and other factors beyond our control, and consequently, such prepayment rates cannot be predicted with certainty. In periods of declining mortgage loan interest rates, prepayments on mortgage loans generally increase and the proceeds of such prepayments are likely to be reinvested by us in assets with lower yields than the yields on the assets that were prepaid. In addition, the market value of any mortgage assets may, because of the risk of prepayment, benefit less than other fixed-income securities from declining interest rates. Under certain interest rate and prepayment scenarios we may fail to recoup fully our cost of acquisition of certain investments. We may change our investment strategy without your consent, which may result in our investing in riskier investments than our currently planned investments. We may change our investment strategy at any time without the consent of our stockholders, which could result in our making investments that are different from, and possibly riskier than, the investments described under the caption “Business” in Item 1, Part I of this annual report. A change in our investment strategy may increase our exposure to, among other things, credit risk, interest rate risk and real estate market fluctuations. Our hedging strategies may not be successful in mitigating our risks associated with interest rates. We use various derivative financial instruments to provide a level of protection against interest rate risks, but no hedging strategy can protect us completely. When rates change, we expect to record a gain or loss on derivatives, which would be offset by an inverse change in the value of loans or residual interests. Our hedging activities may include entering into interest rate swaps, caps and floors, options to purchase these items, and futures and forward contracts. Currently, we use primarily interest rate cap agreements and interest rate swap agreements to manage interest rate risk on loan portfolio; however, our actual hedging decisions will be determined in light of the facts and circumstances existing at the time and may differ from our currently anticipated hedging strategy. We cannot assure you that our use of derivatives will offset the risks related to changes in interest rates. The derivative financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk. In addition, the nature and timing of hedging transactions may influence the effectiveness of these strategies. Poorly designed strategies or improperly executed transactions could actually increase our risk and losses. In addition, hedging strategies involve transaction and other costs. We cannot assure you that our hedging strategy and the derivatives that we use will adequately offset the risk of interest rate volatility or that our hedging transactions will not result in losses, and such losses could harm our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. New legislation and regulations directed at curbing predatory lending practices could cause a credit tightening that may eliminate refinance options and restrict our ability to originate, purchase or price nonconforming residential mortgage loans which could adversely impact our earnings. HOEPA identifies a category of residential mortgage loans and subjects such loans to restrictions not applicable to other residential mortgage loans. Loans subject to HOEPA consist of loans on which certain points and fees or the annual percentage rate, known as the interest rate, exceed specified levels. Laws, rules and regulations have been adopted, or are under consideration, at the state and local levels that are similar to HOEPA 14 Table of Contents in that they impose certain restrictions on loans that exceed certain cost parameters. These state and local laws generally have lower thresholds and broader prohibitions than under the federal law. The restrictions include prohibitions on steering borrowers into loans with high interest rates and away from more affordable products, selling unnecessary insurance to borrowers, flipping or repeatedly refinancing loans and originating loans without a reasonable expectation that the borrowers will be able to repay the loans without regard to the value of the mortgaged property. At this time we believe we are adhering to all city, county, state and federal restrictions. Compliance with some of these restrictions requires lenders to make subjective judgments, such as whether a loan will provide a “net tangible benefit” to the borrower. These restrictions expose a lender to risks of litigation and regulatory sanction no matter how carefully a loan is underwritten and impact the way in which a loan is underwritten. The remedies for violations of these laws are not based on actual harm to the consumer and can result in damages that exceed the loan balance. Liability for violations of HOEPA, as well as violations of many of the state and local equivalents, would extend not only to us, but to assignees, which may include our warehouse lenders, whole-loan buyers and securitization trusts, regardless of whether such assignee knew of or participated in the violation. It is our policy not to originate or purchase loans that are subject to HOEPA or are defined by state and local laws as being predatory or high-cost, because the institutional purchasers of our loans and/or the warehouse lenders that provide financing for our loan origination operations do not wish to purchase or finance such loans. Rating agencies often refuse to rate any securitization including loans subject to these laws or may rate such transactions based on higher over-collateralization levels. If we miscalculated the numerical thresholds regulated by these loans, we may have mistakenly originated or purchased such loans and bear the related marketplace and legal risks. The thresholds below which we try to originate loans may create artificial barriers to production and may limit the price at which we can offer loans to borrowers and our ability to underwrite, originate, sell and finance mortgage loans. Prior to our initial public offering, we ceased doing business for a period of time in Georgia, New Jersey and certain cities within Ohio because we believed compliance with these requirements could not be assured at a reasonable cost with the degree of certainty that we required, and we may cease doing business in additional jurisdictions in the future where we, or our counterparties, make similar determinations with respect to anti-predatory lending laws. We may decide to make a loan that is covered by one of these laws, rules or regulations if, in our judgment, the loan is made in accordance with our strict legal compliance standards and without undue risk relative to litigation or to the enforcement of the loan according to its terms. If we decide to relax our self-imposed restrictions on originating loans subject to these laws, rules and regulations, we will be subject to greater risks for actual or perceived non-compliance with the laws, rules and regulations, including demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from the parties to whom we broker or sell loans, class action lawsuits, increased defenses to foreclosure of individual loans in default, individual claims for significant monetary damages, and administrative enforcement actions. Any of the foregoing could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our competitors that are national banks or federally chartered thrifts and their operating subsidiaries may not be subject to these state and local laws and may as a consequence be able to offer loans that we cannot offer. Federal regulators have expressed their position that these preemption provisions benefit mortgage subsidiaries of federally chartered institutions as well. In January 2004, the Comptroller of the Currency finalized preemption rules that confirm and expand the scope of this federal preemption for national banks and their operating subsidiaries. Such federal preemption rules and interpretations generally have been upheld in the courts. At least one national rating agency has announced, that in recognition of the benefits of federal preemption, it will not require additional credit enhancement by federal institutions when they issue securities backed by mortgages from a state that it deems to have anti-predatory lending laws with clear and objective standards. As a non-federal entity, we will continue to be subject to such rating agency requirements arising from state or local lending-related laws or regulations. Accordingly, as a mortgage lender that is generally subject to the laws of each state in which we do business, except as may specifically be provided in federal rules applicable to all lenders, we may be subject to state legal requirements and legal risks under state laws to which these federally regulated competitors are not subject, and this disparity may have the effect of giving those federal 15 Table of Contents entities legal and competitive advantages. Passage of additional laws in other jurisdictions could increase compliance costs, lower fee income and lower origination volume, all of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. The United States Congress has recently considered legislation, such as the Ney-Kanjorski Responsible Lending Act introduced in 2005, which, among other provisions, would limit fees that a lender is permitted to charge, including prepayment fees, restrict the terms lenders are permitted to include in their loan agreements and increase the amount of disclosure required to be given to potential borrowers. We cannot predict whether or in what form Congress or the various state and local legislatures may enact legislation affecting our business. We are continually evaluating the potential impact of these initiatives, if enacted, on our lending practices and operations. As a consequence of these and other initiatives, we are unable to predict whether federal, state, or local authorities will require changes in our lending practices in the future, including reimbursement of fees charged to borrowers, or the possible imposition of fines. These changes, if required, could adversely affect our profitability, particularly if we make such changes in response to new or amended laws, regulations or ordinances in California, Illinois, Florida, Massachusetts, New Jersey, or New York, or any other state where we originate a significant portion of our mortgage loans. We are also seeing an evolution in the regulatory use of alternative means to impact the behavior of mortgage lenders as evidenced by the settlement announced in January 2006, between the retail subsidiaries of ACC Capital Holdings Corporation and 49 State Attorney’s General and the District of Columbia. It is plausible that the entire mortgage lending industry may be subject to additional evolving standards of conduct addressing the broad category of ethical behavior by way of state unfair and deceptive trade practices, which may increase our cost of production and subject us to additional regulatory oversight. Our business could be harmed if courts in other jurisdictions take a course similar to that of the Appellate Court of Illinois by determining that certain federal laws do not preempt certain state statutes, which could expose us to litigation for fees charged in connection with loans we originated in their jurisdiction. On March 31, 2004, the Appellate Court of Illinois held, contrary to the understanding of many in the industry, that Section 501(a) of the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act, or DIDMCA, does not preempt the limitations on loan-related charges and fees contained in Section 4.1a of the Illinois Interest Act. If the Illinois Supreme Court had not overturned the Appellate Court’s decision, we might have reduced our operations in Illinois to reduce our exposure to litigation concerning fees we charged in connection with Illinois loans. Any such litigation, if decided against us, could have had a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If courts in other jurisdictions follow the Appellate Court of Illinois, we could be exposed to similar litigation in those jurisdictions, which may cause us to limit our operations in those locations. The broad scope of our prior and current operations exposes us to risks of noncompliance with an increasing and inconsistent body of complex laws and regulations at the federal, state and local levels. Because we originated and purchased mortgage loans in many states and may continue to do so in the future, we must comply with the laws and regulations, as well as judicial and administrative decisions, of all of these jurisdictions, as well as an extensive body of federal laws and regulations. The volume of new or modified laws and regulations has increased in recent years, and, in addition, individual cities and counties have begun to enact laws that restrict nonconforming loan origination activities in those cities and counties. State and local governmental authorities have focused on the lending practices of companies in the nonconforming mortgage lending industry, sometimes seeking to impose sanctions for practices such as charging excessive fees, imposing interest rates higher than warranted by the credit risk of the borrower, failing to adequately disclose the material terms of loans and abusive servicing and collection practices. For example California has been the focal point for class action and “private attorney general” litigation against nonconforming residential mortgage lenders over the past few years. The litigation typically has been brought under the California Unfair Competition Law, a statute creating liability for “unfair” business practices even if those practices are not otherwise unlawful. 16 Table of Contents The laws and regulations of each of these jurisdictions are different, complex and, in some cases, in direct conflict with each other. As we continue our operations, it may be more difficult to comprehensively identify and to accurately interpret applicable laws and regulations and to employ properly our policies, procedures and systems and effectively train our personnel with respect to all of these laws and regulations, thereby potentially increasing our exposure to the risks of noncompliance with these laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with this regulatory regimen can lead to: • civil and criminal liability, including potential monetary penalties; • loss of lending licenses or approved status required for continued lending and servicing operations; • demands for indemnification or loan repurchases from purchasers of our loans; • legal defenses causing delay and expense; • adverse effects on the servicer’s ability to enforce loans; • the borrower having the right to rescind, void, or cancel the loan transaction; • adverse publicity; • individual and class action lawsuits; • administrative enforcement actions; • damage to our reputation in the industry; • inability to sell or securitize our loans; • loss of the ability to obtain ratings on our securitizations by rating agencies; or • inability to obtain credit to fund our operations. Although we had systems and procedures directed to compliance with these legal requirements for our prior originations and believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local statutes, rules and regulations, we cannot assure you that more restrictive laws and regulations will not be adopted in the future, or that governmental bodies will not interpret existing laws or regulations in a more restrictive manner, which could make compliance more difficult or expensive. Although our current Retail business relies on other lenders to comply with a majority of laws governing the funding of mortgage loans, if we decide to fund some or all of these loans in the future we will be required to comply with these changing requirements. These applicable laws and regulations are subject to administrative or judicial interpretation, but some of these laws and regulations have been enacted only recently or may be interpreted infrequently. As a result of infrequent or sparse interpretations, ambiguities in these laws and regulations may leave uncertainty with respect to permitted or restricted conduct under them. Any ambiguity under a law to which we are subject may lead to regulatory investigations, governmental enforcement actions or private causes of action, such as class action lawsuits, with respect to our compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Furthermore, judicial resolution of regulatory issues related to our industry, even where we are not involved directly, could impose additional regulations or standards upon us that may materially increase our costs of doing business or restrict our ability to conduct our business as we currently operate. If our servicers fail to adequately service the loans we originated and sold, this could negatively affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. For the loans we own, we enter into servicing agreements with a third party. If a servicer were to terminate the agreement or refuse or be unable to provide the necessary service, our choices for a new servicer may be limited and we may not be able to identify another servicer at the same cost or at all. If we are unable to engage another servicer, in addition to providing the servicing of the loans, we may be obligated to make advances for delinquent payments and other servicing-related costs may be increased, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Poor servicing and collections for which we are reliant on third-party servicers or a transfer of servicing could adversely affect the amount or value of the cash flow received from our securitized portfolio, the value of our residual interests, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We are subject to losses due to fraudulent and negligent acts on the part of loan applicants, mortgage brokers, other vendors and our employees. For the mortgage loans we originated in the past, and any future retail mortgage loans we may originate, we have and will rely heavily upon information supplied by third parties, including the information contained in the loan application, property appraisal, title information, and employment and income documentation. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the actual value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected. Whether a misrepresentation is made by the loan applicant, the mortgage broker, another third party or one of our employees, we generally bear the risk of loss associated with the misrepresentation. A loan subject to a material misrepresentation is typically unsaleable or subject to repurchase if it is sold prior to detection of the misrepresentation. Entities making misrepresentations are often difficult to locate, and it is often difficult to collect any monetary losses we have suffered from them. We cannot assure you that we have detected or will detect all misrepresented information in our loan originations. This may also affect the performance of loans that we have in our portfolio and cause increased losses. We may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent brokers. The mortgage brokers from which we obtained loans have parallel and separate legal obligations to which they are subject. While these laws may not explicitly hold the originating lenders responsible for the legal violations of mortgage brokers, increasingly federal and state agencies have sought to impose such assignee liability. For example, the FTC entered into a settlement agreement with a mortgage lender where the FTC characterized a broker that had placed all of its loan production with a single lender as the “agent” of the lender; the FTC imposed a fine on the lender in part because, as “principal,” the lender was legally responsible for the mortgage broker’s unfair and deceptive acts and practices. In the past, the United States Department of Justice has sought to hold a mortgage lender responsible for the pricing practices of its mortgage brokers, alleging that the mortgage lender was directly responsible for the total fees and charges paid by the borrower under the Fair Housing Act even if the lender neither dictated what the mortgage broker could charge nor kept the money for its own account. Accordingly, we may be subject to fines or other penalties based upon the conduct of our independent mortgage broker customers. Stockholder, director and officer refusal to comply with regulatory requirements may interfere with our ability to do business in certain states. Some states in which we operate may impose regulatory requirements on our officers and directors and persons holding certain amounts, usually 10% or more (but in some cases 5%), of our common stock. If any such person fails to meet or refuses to comply with a state’s applicable regulatory requirements for mortgage lending, we could lose our ability to conduct business in that state. In many states, unless waived, certain officers, directors and/or securityholders of a license applicant are required to provide certain personal background and/or financial disclosures. In some states, unless waived, certain officers, directors or securityholders of a license applicant are required to submit fingerprint cards for processing by law enforcement agencies. Failure to submit the required personal background or financial disclosures or fingerprint cards could lead to the denial of a license application. We have made the required submissions, in connection with applying for the state licenses required for us to originate, purchase, and/or table fund mortgage loans, in all states except for New York. As new officers or directors are appointed, or as additional investors acquire the requisite shares of stock, the background or financial disclosures or fingerprint 18 Table of Contents card submissions may need to be filed in some states, which may be done as part of the license renewal process in some of these states. Failure to submit required background, financial disclosures, or fingerprint cards could lead to a fine or license suspension or revocation. We are subject to significant legal and reputational risks and expenses under federal and state laws concerning privacy, use and security of customer information. The federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley financial reform legislation imposes significant privacy obligations on us in connection with the collection, use and security of financial and other nonpublic information provided to us by applicants and borrowers. Many states have either enacted or are considering enacting even more stringent privacy or customer-information-security breach legislation. Because laws and rules concerning the use and protection of customer information are continuing to develop at the federal and state levels, we expect to incur increased costs in our effort to be and remain in full compliance with these requirements. Nevertheless, despite our efforts we will be subject to legal and reputational risks in connection with our collection and use of customer information, and we cannot assure you that we will not be subject to lawsuits or compliance actions under such state or federal privacy requirements. To the extent that a variety of inconsistent state privacy rules or requirements are enacted, our compliance costs could substantially increase. We are exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties to which we take title. In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to residential properties, and, if we do take title, we could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. In such a circumstance, we may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury, investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Future financing facilities may contain covenants that restrict our operations and our ability to make distributions if we are not in compliance with certain financial and other covenants. We currently have no financing or warehouse facilities with material restrictive covenants. However, any future financing facilities may likely contain restrictions and covenants that, among other things, require us to satisfy specified financial, asset quality and loan performance tests. If we fail to meet or satisfy any of these covenants, we would be in default under these agreements and our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under such agreements and restrict our ability to make additional borrowings. The covenants and restrictions in our future financing facilities may restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt; • make certain investments and other restricted payments; • pay dividends or distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; • issue or sell capital stock of restricted subsidiaries; • grant liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • engage in mergers or consolidations, transfer substantially all of our assets or other events constituting a change in control; • finance loans with certain attributes; 19 Table of Contents • reduce liquidity below certain levels; and • hold loans for longer than established time periods. These restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financing, to engage in other business activities or to make distributions if we are not in compliance with these covenants, which may materially harm our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Warehouse and Repurchase Facilities.” If we make any acquisitions, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize the anticipated benefits. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may attempt to acquire businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. We currently have no agreements to consummate any material acquisitions. Any such acquisitions that are material to us would generally require the prior approval of our stockholders. If we pursue any such transaction, the process of negotiating the acquisition and integrating an acquired business may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for the ongoing development of our business, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have identified numerous material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting and determined that our disclosure controls and procedures are not effective, which could adversely impact our ability to report our results of operations and financial condition accurately and in a timely manner. We have seven material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting (“ICFR”). As required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which we refer to as Section 404, management initiated an assessment of ICFR during the year ended December 31, 2006. Although management was unable to complete its review of ICFR, management identified eleven material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Management is still reviewing and assessing ICFR, but has concluded that ICFR was not effective as of December 31, 2006, given the material weaknesses that have already been identified. Each of our material weaknesses results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement will not be prevented or detected. As a result, we must perform extensive additional work to obtain reasonable assurance regarding disclosure controls and procedures and ICFR. Due to the fact that many of our controls and procedures that were in place before the sale of our mortgage origination business to Bear Sterns are no longer in place and many are no longer needed, management is unable to assess the effectiveness of either disclosure controls and procedures or ICFR now and may not be able to do so in the near or long term future. Given the extensive material weaknesses identified, there is a risk of additional errors not being prevented or detected which could result in a failure to accurately report our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2006 and beyond. Management has extensive work remaining to identify and remediate the material weaknesses in ICFR. We are in the process of developing a plan for remediating all of the identified material weaknesses related to our existing business, however, reconstruction, evaluation and assessment of internal controls that were related to our mortgage origination business can not be practically achieved. As a result, management will concentrate its efforts on improving ICRF for our existing operations during fiscal year 2007 and beyond. There can be no assurance as to when, if ever, the remediation plan will be fully developed and when it will be implemented. Until our remedial efforts are completed, management will continue to devote significant time and attention to these efforts, and management will continue to incur the expenses associated with the manual procedures and resources required to prepare our consolidated financial statements. There will also continue to be an increased risk that we will be unable to timely file future periodic reports with the SEC, and that our future financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected. For additional detailed information on disclosure controls and procedures and ICFR, see Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” in this annual report on Form 10-K. 20 Table of Contents Our securitizations may require us to repurchase mortgage loans or indemnify mortgage loan purchasers as a result of breaches of representations and warranties, borrower fraud, or certain borrower defaults, which could harm our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. When we sold our mortgage loans, pursuant to a securitization, we were required to make customary representations and warranties to the purchaser about the mortgage loans and the manner in which they were originated. In addition, we may be required to repurchase mortgage loans as a result of borrower fraud or in the event of early payment default on a mortgage loan. Likewise, we are required to repurchase or substitute mortgage loans if we breach a representation or warranty in connection with our securitizations. The remedies available to us against the originating broker or correspondent may not be as broad as the remedies available to a purchaser of mortgage loans against us, and we face the further risk that the originating broker or correspondent may not have the financial capacity to perform remedies that otherwise may be available to us. Therefore, if a purchaser enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to recover losses from the originating broker or correspondent. Repurchased loans are typically sold at a significant discount to the unpaid principal balance and, prior to sale, can be financed by us, if at all, only at a steep discount to our cost. As a result, significant repurchase activity could harm our liquidity, cash flow, results of operations, financial condition and business prospects. Our investments in mortgage securities and loans are subject to changes in credit spreads which could adversely affect our ability to realize gains on the sale of such investments and may subject us to margin calls or similar liquidity requirements. The value of mortgage securities is dependent on the yield demanded on these securities by the market based on their credit relative LIBOR. Excessive supply of these securities combined with reduced demand will generally cause the market to require a higher yield on these securities, resulting in the use of a higher, or “wider,” spread over the benchmark rate (usually the applicable LIBOR security yield) to value such securities. Under such conditions, the value of our mortgage securities portfolio would tend to decline. Conversely, if the spread used to value such securities were to decrease, or “tighten,” the value of our mortgage securities portfolio would tend to increase. Differences in our actual experience compared to the assumptions that we use to determine the value of our residual mortgage securities could adversely affect our financial position. Our securitizations of mortgage loans that are structured as sales for financial reporting purposes result in the recording of the residual mortgage securities we retain at fair value. As of December 31, 2006 we had retained residual mortgage securities from our securitizations of mortgage loans with a fair value of $45.9 million on our balance sheet. Delinquency, loss, prepayment and discount rate assumptions have a material impact on the carrying value of our residual mortgage securities. It is extremely difficult to validate the assumptions we use in determining the value of our residual mortgage securities. If our actual experience differs materially from the assumptions that we use to determine the value of these mortgage securities, our future cash flows, our financial condition and our results of operations could be negatively affected. The value of residual interests represents the present value of future cash flows expected to be received by us from the excess cash flows created in the securitization transaction. In general, future cash flows are estimated by taking the coupon rate of the loans underlying the transaction less the interest rate paid to the investors, less contractually specified servicing and trustee fees, and after giving effect to estimated prepayments and credit losses. We estimate future cash flows from these securities and value them utilizing assumptions based in part on projected discount rates, delinquency, mortgage loan prepayment speeds and credit losses. It is extremely difficult to validate the assumptions we use in valuing our residual interests. Even if the general accuracy of the valuation model is validated, valuations are highly dependent upon the reasonableness of our assumptions and the predictability of the relationships which drive the results of the model. Such assumptions are complex as we 21 Table of Contents must make judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. As actual experience differs from our assumptions, we have and will continue to reduce the value of these securities. Furthermore, if our actual experience differs materially from these assumptions, our cash flow, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects may be harmed, including an adverse affect on the amount of dividend payments that are made on our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock We are no longer listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the market in our common stock is highly speculative and may not continue. Our common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange, or the NYSE, on March 19, 2007. Our common stock now trades on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol “ECRO.OB”. Our delisting has reduced the market and liquidity of our common stock and consequently may adversely affect the ability of our stockholders and brokers/dealers to purchase and sell our shares in an orderly manner or at all. Trading in our common stock through market makers and quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board entails other risks. Due in part to the decreased trading price of our common stock and the elimination of analyst coverage, the trading price of our common stock may change quickly, and market makers may not be able to execute trades as quickly as they could when our common stock was listed on the NYSE. The value of our common stock is highly speculative and any investment in our common stock would pose an extremely high degree of risk. Potential investors in our common stock should consider the highly speculative nature of our common stock prior to making any investment decision with respect to our common stock. In addition, the decrease in liquidity of an investment in our common stock could make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future, if at all. Our common stock is classified as a “penny stock” under SEC rules, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to resell our common stock. Because our common stock is not traded on a stock exchange and the market price of the common stock is less than $5.00 per share, the common stock is classified as a “penny stock.” Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that recommend the purchase or sale of penny stocks to persons other than those who qualify as an “established customer” or an “accredited investor.” These include the requirement that a broker-dealer must make a determination that investments in penny stocks are suitable for the customer and must make special disclosures to the customer concerning the risks of penny stocks. Application of the penny stock rules to our common stock could adversely affect the market liquidity of the shares, which in turn may affect the ability of holders of our common stock to resell the stock. We may face deregistration proceedings under Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act. If we are unable to timely file our periodic reports with the SEC for future periods, we believe that the SEC could commence deregistration proceedings under Section 12(j) of the Exchange Act to deregister our common stock under the Exchange Act. If our common stock is deregistered, publicly available information regarding us may be limited and the price of our common stock would likely suffer an immediate and significant decline. Our common stock would no longer be quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board and there can be no assurance that there will be any active trading market for our common stock. Accordingly, investors would likely find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock or obtain accurate quotations for our common stock following any such deregistration. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our charter prohibits certain entities from owning our shares, which might reduce the demand for our shares by limiting the potential purchasers of our shares. If certain types of entities hold our shares, then a tax will be imposed on us if we hold a residual interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit, or REMIC, and, although the law on the matter is unclear, a tax might 22 Table of Contents be imposed on us if we hold an interest in a taxable mortgage pool. To prevent us from being required to pay this tax in that event, our charter prohibits our shares from being held by the entities that might cause this tax to be imposed on us. These entities include: the United States; any state or political subdivision thereof; any foreign government; any international organization; any agency or instrumentality of any of the foregoing; any other tax-exempt organization, other than a farmer’s cooperative described in section 521 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”), as amended, that is both exempt from income taxation and exempt from taxation under the unrelated business taxable income provisions of the Code; and any rural electrical or telephone cooperative. Provisions of our charter and Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of our company. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of our common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter impose special super majority stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of our company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by our stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares; and • “unsolicited takeover” provisions of Maryland law that permit our board of directors, without stockholder approval, to implement possible takeover defenses, such as a classified board or two-third vote requirement for removal of a director that we are not yet eligible to have. We have opted out of the control share provisions of the MGCL pursuant to a provision in our bylaws. However, we may, by amendment to our bylaws, become subject to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. We have also, by resolution of our board of directors, excluded any business combination with us from the business combination provisions of the MGCL. There can be no assurance that this provision will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. There can also be no assurance that the “unsolicited takeover” provisions that we are not yet eligible to have will not be implemented by our board of directors in the future. Our charter and bylaws contain provisions that may have an anti-takeover effect and inhibit a change in our board of directors. These provisions include the following: There are ownership limits and restrictions on transferability in our charter. Our charter, subject to certain exceptions, authorizes our board of directors to take such actions as are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT and to limit any person to actual or constructive ownership of no more than 5.6% in value or number of shares, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of our common stock and no more than 5.6% in value of our outstanding capital stock. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from these ownership limits. However, our board of directors may not grant an exemption from the ownership limit to any proposed transferee whose actual or constructive ownership, of in excess of 5.6% of the value of the outstanding shares of our capital stock could jeopardize our status as a REIT. Steven G. Holder and Shabi S. Asghar, together with each of their respective affiliates, will each be permitted to own up to 20.85% and 11.65%, respectively, of our common stock. These restrictions on transferability and ownership will not apply if our board of directors determines 23 Table of Contents that it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. Our charter authorized our board to reduce ownership limits below 5.6% if it is determined to be in the best interest of our stockholders. These ownership limits may delay or impede a transaction or a change of control that might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue common stock or preferred stock, without any action by our stockholders, with terms that may discourage a third party from acquiring us. Our charter permits our board of directors to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock. In addition, our board of directors may classify or reclassify unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, and limitations as to dividends or other distributions, qualifications and terms or conditions of redemption of the classified shares. As a result, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of common stock or preferred stock with terms and conditions that could have the effect of discouraging a takeover or other transaction in which holders of some or a majority of our shares might receive a premium for their shares over the then-prevailing market price of our shares. • Our charter and bylaws contain other possible anti-takeover provisions. Our charter and bylaws contain other provisions that may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control of us or the removal of existing directors and, as a result, could prevent our stockholders from being paid a premium for their common stock over the then prevailing market price. • Removal of Directors. Under our charter, subject to the rights of one or more future classes or series of preferred stock to elect or remove one or more directors, a director may be removed only for cause and then only by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all votes entitled to be cast by our stockholders generally in the election of directors. • Stockholder-Requested Special Meetings. Our bylaws provide that our stockholders have the right to call a special meeting only upon the written request of the stockholders entitled to cast not less than a majority of all the votes entitled to be cast by the stockholders at such meeting. • Number of Directors, Board Vacancies, Term of Office. Our charter and bylaws provide a majority of the entire board of directors with the right to determine the number of directors; however, the number of directors may not be fewer than one, as required by Maryland law, or more than fifteen. Vacancies on the board may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, whether or not constituting a quorum. In addition, a vacancy on the board of directors resulting from the removal of a director may also be filled by the stockholders. We have provided in our charter that, once we have a class of equity securities registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and have at least three independent directors, the board of directors has the exclusive right, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, to fill all vacancies on the board of directors, including those resulting from the removal of a director or an increase in the number of directors, even if the remaining directors do not constitute a quorum, and any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor is elected and qualifies. • Advance Notice Provisions for Stockholder Nominations and Proposals. Our bylaws require advance written notice for stockholders to nominate persons for election as directors at, or to bring other business before, any meeting of stockholders. This bylaw provision limits the ability of stockholders to make nominations of individuals for election as directors or to introduce other proposals unless we are notified in a timely manner prior to the meeting. Our rights and the rights of our stockholders to take action against our directors and officers are limited. Maryland law provides that a director or officer has no liability in that capacity if he or she performs his or her duties in good faith, in a manner he or she reasonably believes to be in our best interests and with the care that an ordinarily prudent person in a like position would use under similar circumstances. Our charter, in the case of directors and officers, will require us to indemnify our directors and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the full extent permitted by Maryland law. 24 Table of Contents Maryland law permits us to include in our charter a provision limiting the liability of our directors and officers to us and our stockholders for monetary damages, except for liability resulting from (a) actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services, or (b) active and deliberate dishonesty established by final judgment and which is material to the cause of action. Our charter contains a provision that eliminates directors and officers’ liability to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. As a result, we and our stockholders may have more limited rights against our directors and officers than might otherwise exist under common law. Maintenance of our Investment Company Act exemption imposes limits on our operations. We conduct our operations so as not to become regulated as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or the Investment Company Act. An entity can be subject to regulation as an investment company if it holds itself out as an investment company. In addition, an entity can be regulated as investment companies even if it does not hold itself out as one, if it engages or proposed to engage in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities, and owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value of 40 per centum or less in total assets (exclusive of cash and government securities) on an unconsolidated basis. We do not hold ourselves out as an investment company, and we organize our business such that less than 40% of our assets, on an unconsolidated basis, are investment securities. To ensure that we do not qualify as an investment company, we may be required at times to adopt less efficient methods of financing certain of our assets and we may be precluded from acquiring certain types of higher-yielding assets. If the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, adopts a contrary interpretation with respect to these assets or otherwise believes we should be classified as an investment company, we could be required to restructure our activities or sell certain of our assets in order to qualify for an exemption from registration as an investment company. The net effect of these factors would be to lower our net interest income or to realize a lower price on the sale of assets than might be realized if the assets were held to maturity. If we fail to qualify for an exemption and are required to register as an investment company, our ability to use leverage would be substantially reduced, and we would not be able to conduct our business as described. Mr. Holder, together with his respective affiliate, own in the aggregate approximately 17.77% of our outstanding common stock and there may be circumstances under which the interests of Mr. Holder and the interests of the holders of the remainder of our common stock will not be aligned. Mr. Holder, together with his respective affiliate, own in the aggregate approximately 17.77% of our outstanding common stock. This may enable him to exercise substantial influence over the management of our company and on the outcome of any matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders. Circumstances may arise in which the interests of Mr. Holder could be in conflict with the interests of our stockholders. The concentration of ownership of our company may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our company, may discourage bids for our stock at a premium over the market price and may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Qualification and Operation as a REIT Our failure to qualify as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and the value of our common stock. We currently operate in a manner that is intended to enable us to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes under the Code commencing with our taxable year ending December 31, 2006. We have not requested and do not plan to request a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, that we qualify as a REIT, and the statements in this annual report are not binding on the IRS or any court. If we were to lose our REIT status, we would face serious tax consequences that would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders for each of the years involved because: • we would not be required to make, nor would we be entitled to a deduction for, any distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be required to pay federal income tax at regular corporate rates; 25 Table of Contents • we could be required to pay the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under applicable statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified. In addition, if we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will not be required to make distributions to our stockholders. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital, and would adversely affect the value of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. In order to qualify as a REIT, we must satisfy a number of requirements, including requirements regarding the ownership of our shares, the composition of our assets and a requirement that at least 95% of our gross income in any year be derived from qualifying sources, such as interest on mortgage loans. Also, we must make distributions to stockholders aggregating annually at least 90% of our net taxable income, excluding capital gains. Even if we qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, we may be required to pay some federal, state and local taxes on our income or property and, in certain cases, a 100% penalty tax in the event we sell property, including mortgage loans, as a dealer or if a taxable REIT subsidiary of ours, including Performance Credit Corporation, Encore Credit Corporation of Minnesota or PerformanceOne Financial, Inc., enters into an agreement with us on a basis that is determined to be other than arm’s-length. In addition, any taxable REIT subsidiary we own will be required to pay federal, state and local income taxes on its taxable income, as well as any other applicable taxes. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our liquidity. To qualify as a REIT, we generally must distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our net taxable income each year, excluding capital gains, and we will be required to pay regular corporate income taxes to the extent that we distribute less than 100% of our net taxable income each year. In addition, we will be required to pay a 4% nondeductible excise tax on the amount, if any, by which distributions paid by us in any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. We currently intend to make distributions to our stockholders to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. However, differences in timing between the recognition of REIT taxable income and the actual receipt of cash or the effect of non-deductible capital expenditures could require us to (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow funds on unfavorable terms, or (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt in order to comply with the 90% distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the nondeductible excise tax. Further, amounts distributed will not be available to fund investment activities. We expect to fund our investments, initially, by raising capital and, subsequently, through borrowings from financial institutions, along with securitization financings. Our failure to obtain debt or equity capital in the future could limit our ability to grow, which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Recognition of excess inclusion income by us could have adverse tax consequences to us or our stockholders. We may recognize excess inclusion income and our stockholders may be required to treat a portion of the distributions they receive as excess inclusion income. Excess inclusion income may not be offset with net operating losses, represents unrelated business taxable income in the hands of an otherwise tax-exempt shareholder, and is subject to withholding tax, without regard to otherwise applicable exemptions or rate reductions, to the extent such income is allocable to a shareholder who is not a U.S. person. 26 Table of Contents Generally, excess inclusion income is the income allocable to a REMIC residual interest in excess of the income that would have been allocable to such interest if it were a bond having a yield to maturity equal to 120% of the long-term applicable federal rate, which is a rate based on the weighted average yields of treasury securities and is published monthly by the IRS for use in various tax calculations. If a REIT holds 100% of the sole class of equity interest in a non-REMIC multi-class mortgage-backed securities offering that qualifies as a borrowing for federal income tax purposes, the equity interest retained by the REIT, under regulations that have not yet been issued, will be subject to rules similar to those applicable to a REMIC residual interest. We believe we have structured our securitization transactions to qualify as non-REMIC financing transactions for federal income tax purposes. As a result, from time to time, we may recognize excess inclusion income attributable to the equity interests we retain in those securitization transactions. If we recognize excess inclusion income, we may, under regulations that have not yet been issued, have to allocate the excess inclusion income to the distributions we make to our stockholders to the extent our REIT taxable income (taking into account the dividends paid deduction) is less than the sum of our excess inclusions for the taxable year. If a portion of the distributions we distribute to you are characterized as excess inclusion income, then you will be taxed with respect to that excess inclusion income in the same manner that you would be taxed if you held a REMIC residual interest directly. Generally, to maintain our REIT status, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and by excluding any net capital gains) in each year. To the extent the sum of our excess inclusion income is less than 10% of our total taxable income, we may elect to pay tax on such excess inclusion income rather than treating a portion of our distributions as comprising excess inclusion income. Complying with REIT requirements may force us to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. At the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must satisfy four tests relating to the nature and composition of our assets. First, at least 75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets, cash, cash items and government securities. For purposes of this test, real estate assets include stock or debt instruments that are purchased with the proceeds of a stock offering or a public offering of debt with a term of at least five years, but only for the one-year period beginning on the date we receive such proceeds. Second, not more than 25% of our total assets may be represented by securities, other than those securities includable in the 75% asset test. Third, of the investments included in the 25% asset class, and except for investments in REITs, qualified REIT subsidiaries and taxable REIT subsidiaries, the value of any one issuer’s securities may not exceed 5% of the value of our total assets, and we may not own more than 10% of the total vote or value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer except, in the case of the 10% value test, certain “straight debt” and other excluded securities, as described in the Code. Fourth, not more than 20% of the value of our total assets may be represented by the securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If we fail to satisfy an asset test because we acquire securities or other property during a quarter, we may cure this failure by disposing of sufficient non-qualifying assets within 30 days after the close of that quarter. In addition, other cure provisions may be available to us in the event we fail to meet the REIT qualifications tests. Although we plan to take steps to ensure that we satisfy such tests for any quarter with respect to which testing is to occur, there can be no assurance that such steps will always be successful, or will not require a reduction in our overall interest in an issuer. If we fail to timely cure any noncompliance with the asset tests and certain relief provisions do not apply, we could cease to qualify as a REIT. U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs and investments in REITs may change, which may cause us to lose the tax benefits of operating as a REIT. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of a REIT and an investment in a REIT may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time. Revisions to U.S. federal income tax laws and interpretations of these laws could adversely affect us and the tax consequences of an investment in our securities. 27 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 