D. Risk Factors Much of the information included in this annual report includes or is based upon estimates, projections or other "forward looking statements". Such forward looking statements include any projections or estimates made by our company and our management in connection with our business operations. While these forward-looking statements, and any assumptions upon which they are based, are made in good faith and reflect our current judgment regarding the direction of our business, actual results will almost always vary, sometimes materially, from any estimates, predictions, projections, assumptions or other future performance suggested herein. Such estimates, projections or other forward looking statements involve various risks and uncertainties as outlined below. We caution the reader that important factors in some cases have affected and, in the 8 future, could materially affect actual results and cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in any such estimates, projections or other forward looking statements. The common shares of our company are considered speculative. You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties in addition to other information in this annual report in evaluating our company and our business before purchasing shares of our company's common stock. Our business, operating and financial condition could be harmed due to any of the following risks. Risks Associated with Mining As our properties are in the exploration and development stage there can be no assurance that we will establish commercial discoveries on our properties. Despite exploration work on our mineral claims, no known bodies of commercial ore or economic deposits have been established on any of our mineral properties. In addition, we are in our early stages of exploration and substantial additional work will be required in order to determine if any economic deposits occur on our properties. Even in the event commercial quantities of minerals are discovered, the mining properties might not be brought into a state of commercial production. Finding mineral deposits is dependent on a number of factors, not the least of which is the technical skill of exploration personnel involved. The commercial viability of a mineral deposit once discovered is also dependent on a number of factors, some of which are particular attributes of the deposit, such as size, grade and proximity to infrastructure, as well as metal prices. Most of these factors are beyond the control of the entity conducting such mineral exploration. We are an exploration stage company with no history of revenues. There can be no assurance that our operations will be profitable in the future. Mineral operations are subject to government regulations which could have the effect of reducing or preventing us from exploiting any possible mineral reserves on our properties. Exploration activities are also subject to national and local laws and regulations governing prospects, taxes, labour standards, occupational health, land use, environmental protection, mine safety and others which currently or in the future may have a substantial adverse impact on our company. In order to comply with applicable laws, we may be required to make capital expenditures until a particular problem is remedied. Existing and possible future environmental legislation, regulation and action could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restriction and delays in the activities of our company, the extent of which cannot be reasonably predicted. Violators may be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of our mining activities and may be fined if convicted of an offence under such legislation. The mining industry is highly competitive and there is no assurance that we will be successful in acquiring mineral claims, as a result of which we may be required to cease operations. The mineral industry is intensely competitive in all phases. We compete with many companies possessing greater financial resources and technical facilities than ourselves. The market price of precious metals and other minerals is volatile and cannot be controlled. If the price of base or precious metals should drop significantly, the economic prospects of operations in which we have an interest could be significantly reduced or rendered uneconomic. There is no assurance that our mineral exploration and development activities will be successful and if we are not successful in these activities our business will fail. 9 Mining and mineral exploration has substantial operational risks which could prevent us from achieving profitable operations. Mineral exploration involves many risks, which even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome. Operations in which we have an interest will be subject to all the hazard and risks normally incidental to exploration, development and production of base, precious and other metals, any of which could result in damage to or destruction of mines and other producing facilities, damage to life and property, environmental damage and possible legal liability for any or all damage. The nature of these risks is such that liabilities could exceed policy limits, in which we could incur significant costs that could prevent us from becoming profitable. Our projects are located in Mexico where mining exploration activities may be affected in varying degrees by political and government regulations which could have a negative impact on our ability to continue our operations. The projects in which we have interests are located in Mexico. Mineral exploration activities in Mexico may be affected in varying degrees by political instabilities and government regulations relating to the mining industry. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond our control and may adversely affect our business. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, export controls, income taxes, expropriations of property, environmental legislation and mine safety. The status of Mexico as a developing country may make it more difficult for us to obtain any required financing for our projects. The effect of all these factors cannot be accurately predicted. Notwithstanding the progress achieved in restructuring Mexican political institutions and revitalizing its economy, the present administration, or any successor government, may not be able to sustain the progress achieved. While the Mexica n economy has experienced growth in recent years, such growth may not continue in the future at similar rates or at all. If the economy of Mexico fails to continue its growth or suffers a recession, we may not be able to continue our operations in that country. We do not carry political risk insurance. Our operations may be subject to environmental regulations which may result in the imposition of fines and penalties. Our operations may be subject to environmental regulations promulgated by government agencies from time to time. Environmental legislation provides for restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with certain mining industry operations, such as seepage from tailings disposal areas, which would result in environmental pollution. A breach of such legislation may result in the imposition of fines and penalties. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which means stricter standards, and enforcement; fines and penalties for non-compliance are more stringent. Environmental assessments of proposed projects carry a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and directors, officers and employees. The cost of compliance with changes in governmental regulations has a potential to reduce the profitability of operations. While we maintain appropriate insurance for liability and property damage, we may become subject to liability for hazards that cannot be insured against, which if such liabilities arise, they could reduce or eliminate profitability for our company. Our operations may involve the use of dangerous and hazardous substances. While extensive measures are taken to prevent discharges of pollutants in the ground water and the environment, and it is anticipated that we will maintain appropriate insurance for liability and property damage in connection with our business, we may become subject to liability for hazards that cannot be insured against or which we may elect not to insure ourselves against due to high premium costs or other reasons. Should such liabilities 10 arise, they could reduce or eliminate the profitability of us resulting in a decline in the value of our securities. In the course of exploration, development and production of mineral properties, certain risks and, in particular, unexpected or unusual geological operating conditions including rock bursts, cave-ins, fires, flooding and earthquakes may occur. It is not always possible to fully insure against such risks and we may decide not to take out insurance against such risks as a result of high premiums or other reasons. Should such liabilities arise, they could reduce or eliminate any future profitability and result in increasing costs and a decline in the value of our securities. There can be no assurance that title to any property interest acquired by us or our subsidiary is secured. Although we have taken reasonable precaution to ensure that legal title to our properties is properly documented, there can be no assurance of title to any property interest acquired by us or our subsidiary that such title will ultimately be secured. Such property interests may be subject to prior unregistered agreements or transfers or other land claims, and title may be affected by undetected defects and adverse laws and regulations. We have a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects. Since we have only recently begun the acquisition and exploration of mineral resource properties, we have a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our prospects. Our operating activities since our inception have consisted primarily of identifying prospective properties and acquiring the interest in those properties that we currently hold through systematic exploration programs. As a result, we have not earned any revenues to date. We have no way to evaluate the likelihood that we will be able to operate our business successfully or that our properties contain any recoverable reserves. We anticipate that we will incur increased operating costs without realizing any revenues during the period when we are exploring our properties. For the year ending December 31, 2005, we expect to spend approximately $2 million on the exploration of the properties in which we hold our interests and $1,200,000 to $1,500,000 in the operation of our company. We therefore expect to incur significant los ses into the foreseeable future. We recognize that if we are unable to generate significant revenues from mining operations and any dispositions of our properties, we will not be able to earn profits or continue operations. At this early stage of our operation, we also expect to face the risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies at the start up stage of their business development. We cannot be sure that we will be successful in addressing these risks and uncertainties and our failure to do so could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition. There is no history upon which to base any assumption as to the likelihood that we will prove successful and we can provide investors with no assurance that we will generate any operating revenues or ever achieve profitable operations. The report of independent registered public accounting firm on our 2004 annual financial statements includes an additional explanatory paragraph that states that conditions or even ts exist which raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of that uncertainty. The fact that we have not earned any revenues since our incorporation raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have not generated any operating revenues since our incorporation and we will, in all likelihood, continue to incur operating expenses without revenues until our mining properties are fully developed and in commercial production. We had cash and short-term investments in the amount of $1,923,972 as of December 31, 2004, and approximately $881,434 as of May 31, 2005. We estimate our average monthly operating expenses to be approximately $100,000 each month. As a result, we need to generate significant revenues from our operations or acquire financing. We cannot assure that we will be able to 11 successfully explore and develop our mining properties or assure that viable reserves exist on the properties for extraction. These circumstances raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. It is unlikely that we will generate any funds internally until we discover commercially viable mineral deposits. If we are unable to generate revenue from our business during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2005, we may be forced to delay, scale back, or eliminate our exploration activities. If any of these actions were to become necessary, we may not be able to continue to explore our properties or operate our business and if either of those events happen, then there is a substantial risk our business would fail. Our properties are in the pre-exploration stage, are not commercially viable at this time and there is no assurance that commercially viable quantities of ore will be discovered. Our mineral properties are in the early exploration stage and are not commercially viable at this time. Mineral exploration involves a high degree of risk. There is no assurance that commercially viable quantities of ore will be discovered. There is also no assurance that if found, commercially viable properties will be brought into commercial production. If we are not able to locate sufficient quantities of commercially viable ore and bring our properties into commercial production, we will not be able to continue operations and as a result our shareholders may lose any investment in our company. There is substantial risk that no commercially exploitable minerals will be found and our business will fail. The search for valuable minerals as a business is extremely risky. We can provide investors with no assurance that the minerals claims that we have an option to acquire contain commercially exploitable reserves. Exploration for minerals is a speculative venture necessarily involving substantial risk. The probability of an individual prospect having reserves and being commercially profitable is remote and, if a property does not contain any reserves, the funds we have spent or will spend on exploration of such property will be lost. We are subject to environmental protection legislation with which we must comply or suffer sanctions from regulatory authorities. If the results of our geological exploration program indicate commercially exploitable reserves and we decide to pursue commercial production of our mineral claim, we may be subject to an environmental review process under environmental assessment legislation. Compliance with an environmental review process may be costly and may delay commercial production. Furthermore, there is the possibility that we would not be able to proceed with commercial production upon completion of the environmental review process if government authorities do not approve our mine or if the costs of compliance with government regulation adversely affect the commercial viability of the proposed mine. Mineral prices are subject to dramatic and unpredictable fluctuations. The market price of precious metals and other minerals is volatile and cannot be controlled. If the price of precious metals and other minerals should drop significantly, the economic prospects of the projects which we have an interest in could be significantly reduced or rendered uneconomic. There is no assurance that, even if commercial quantities of ore are discovered, a profitable market may exist for the sale of same. Factors beyond our control may affect the marketability of any minerals discovered. Mineral prices have fluctuated widely, particularly in recent years. The marketability of minerals is also affected by numerous other factors beyond our control, including government regulations relating to royalties, allowable production and importing and exporting of minerals, the effect of which cannot be accurately predicted. 12 If we cannot locate qualified personnel, we may have to suspend or cease operations which will result in the loss your investment. Not all of our directors and officers have direct training or experience in metals exploration or mining and as a result, they may not be fully aware of any of the specific requirements related to working within the industry. Their decisions and choices may not take into account standard engineering or managerial approaches that mineral exploration companies commonly use. Consequently, our operations, earnings and ultimate financial success could suffer irreparable harm. As a result, we may have to suspend or cease operations which will result in the loss of your investment. Financing Risks We have limited financial resources and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate financing in the future. Failure to obtain such financing may result in a delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of our projects. We have limited financial resources and have no assurances that additional funding will be available to us for further exploration and development of our projects or to fulfil our obligations under any applicable agreements. Although we have been successful in the past in obtaining financing through the sale of equity securities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate financing in the future or that the terms of such financing will be favourable. Failure to obtain such additional financing could result in a delay or indefinite postponement of further exploration and development of our projects with the possible loss of such properties. Fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates may affect our results. Virtually all of the goods and services required by us in connection with our operations in Mexico and costs for the further acquisition of interests in our properties, will be paid for in Mexican pesos or United States dollars. Prices for goods and services offered to members of the mining industry in Mexico, when quoted in Mexican pesos, are, for the most part, adjusted so as to remain competitive with prices offered in respect of the same goods and services in the United States and Canada. Nonetheless, an increase in the value of the Mexican pesos or of the United States dollar relative to the Canadian dollar, which is not followed by such an adjustment, may affect the ability of our company to carry out our exploration and development programs and may substantially increase the costs of such programs. Variations in the market prices of metals may impact on our ability to raise funding to continue exploration of our properties. In addition, any significant fluctuations in metal prices will impact on our decision to accelerate or reduce our exploration activities. Factors beyond our control may affect the marketability of any substances discovered. The prices of various metals have experienced significant movement over short periods of time, and are affected by numerous factors beyond our control, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates and global or regional consumption patterns, speculative activities and increased production due to improved mining and production methods. The supply of and demand for metals are affected by various factors, including political events, economic conditions and production costs in major mineral producing regions. Variations in the market prices of metals may impact on our ability to raise funding to continue exploration of our properties. In addition, any significant fluctuations in metal prices will impact on our decision to accelerate or reduce our exploration activities. 13 We are dependant on the services of certain key officers, namely Robert Archer, Kaare Foy and Ing. Francisco Ramos Sanchez, and the loss of these certain key personnel may have a materially adverse effect on our company. While engaged in the business of exploiting mineral properties, the nature of our business, our ability to continue our exploration of potential projects, and to develop a competitive edge in the marketplace, depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and maintain qualified key management personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain such personnel. Our growth has depended, and in the future will continue to depend, on the efforts of our key management personnel. Loss of any of these people would have a material adverse effect on us. Currently we do not have any contracts with our key employees and we do not have key-man life insurance. Conflicts of interest may arise as a result of our directors and officers being directors and officers of other natural resource companies. Certain of our directors and officers may continue to be involved in a wide range of business activities through their direct and their indirect participation in corporations, partnerships or joint ventures. Situations may arise in connection with potential acquisitions and investments where the other interests of these director and officers may conflict with the interests of our company. Our directors and officers with conflicts of interest will be subject to and will follow the procedures set out in the applicable corporate legislation. Risks Relating to an Investment in our Securities Trading in our common shares on the TSX Venture Exchange is limited and sporadic making it difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares or liquidate their investments. The trading price of our shares has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. Trading prices of our shares may fluctuate in response to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for gold and silver exploration companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our shares, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted. Such litigation, if instituted, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. Our by-laws indemnify our officers and directors against all costs, charges and expenses incurred by them. Our By-laws contain provisions limiting the liability of our officers and directors for all acts, receipts, neglects or defaults of themselves and all of our other officers or directors or for any other loss, damage or expense incurred by our company which shall happen in the execution of the duties of such officers or directors, as do indemnification agreements between us and our directors. Such limitations on liability may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against our officers and directors and may discourage or deter our shareholders from suing our officers and directors based upon breaches of their duties to our company, though such an action, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and our shareholders. 14 Investors' interests in our company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share if we issue incentive stock options to our employees, directors, officers and consultants. We are currently without a source of revenue and will most likely be required to issue additional shares to finance our operations and, depending on the outcome of our exploration programs, may issue additional shares to finance additional exploration programs of any or all of our projects or to acquire additional properties. We have also granted, and in the future may grant, to directors, officers, insiders, and key employees options to purchase our common shares as non-cash incentives to those persons. Such options have been and may in future be granted at exercise prices equal to market prices, or at prices as allowable under the policies of the TSX Venture Exchange, when the public market is depressed. The issuance of additional shares will cause our existing shareholders to experience dilution of their ownership interests. Investors' interests in our company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share if we issue additional shares or raise funds through the sale of equity securities. In the event that we are required to issue additional shares or decide to enter into joint ventures with other parties in order to raise financing through the sale of equity securities, investors' interests in our company will be diluted and investors may suffer dilution in their net book value per share depending on the price at which such securities are sold. There are also outstanding common share purchase warrants and options exercisable into 4,585,714 common shares which, if exercised, would represent approximately 20.21% of our issued and outstanding shares. If all of these shares are exercised and issued, such issuance also will cause a reduction in the proportionate ownership and voting power of all other shareholders. The dilution may result in a decline in the market price of our shares. We have a history of net losses and there is no assurance that we can reach profitability in the future. We have a history of losses and there is no assurance that we can reach profitability in the future. We will require significant additional funding to meet our business objectives. Capital will need to be available to help maintain and to expand exploration on our principal exploration property. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on reasonable terms, or at all. If equity financing is required, as expected, then such financings could result in significant dilution to existing shareholders. If we are unable to obtain sufficient financing, we might have to dramatically slow exploration efforts and/or lose control of our projects. We have historically obtained the preponderance of our financing through the issuance of equity, there is no limit to the number of authorized common shares, and we have no current plans to obtain financing through means other than equity financing. U.S. investors may not be able to enforce their civil liabilities against us or our directors, controlling persons and officers. It may be difficult to bring and enforce suits against us. We were incorporated under the Company Act (British Columbia) and continued in the Yukon Territory under the Business Corporations Act (Yukon), and then continued to British Columbia on July 9, 2004. All of our directors and officers are residents of countries other than the United States and all of our assets are located outside of the United States. Consequently, it may be difficult for United States investors to effect service of process in the United States upon those directors or officers who are not residents of the United States, or to realize in the United States upon judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. There is substantial doubt whether an original action could be brought successfully in Canada against any of such persons or us predicated solely upon such civil liabilities. 15 Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC's "Penny Stock" regulations which may limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted regulations which generally define "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors". The term "accredited investor" refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock m arket. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in, and limit the marketability of, our common stock. U.S. investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. We may be treated as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes during the 2004 tax year or in subsequent years. We may be deemed a PFIC because previous financings combined with proceeds of future financings may produce, or be deemed to be held to produce, passive income. Additionally, U.S. citizens should review the section entitled "Taxation-U.S. Federal Income Taxation - Passive Foreign Investment Companies" contained in this annual report for a more detailed description of the PFIC rules and how those rules may affect their ownership of our capital shares. If we are or become a PFIC, many of the U.S. shareholders will be subject to the following adverse tax consequences: - they will be taxed at the highest ordinary income tax rates in effect during their holding period on certain distributions on our capital shares, and gains from the sale or other disposition of our capital shares; - they will be required to pay interest on taxes allocable to prior periods; and - the tax basis of our capital shares will not be increased to fair market value at the date of their date. 16 We do not expect to declare or pay any dividends We have not declared or paid any dividends on our common stock since our inception, and we do not anticipate paying any such dividends for the foreseeable future. 