ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS We have described below a number of uncertainties and risks which, in addition to uncertainties and risks presented elsewhere in this Annual Report, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The uncertainties and risks enumerated below as well as those presented elsewhere in this Annual Report should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business and the value of our securities. The following important factors, among others, could cause our actual business, financial condition and future results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. We are in default of our 8% Senior Secured Debentures. We are in default of our debt agreements entered into in January 2008 and April 2008 in connection with the sale of our 8% Senior Secured Debentures. In September 2008, we agreed to defer a portion of the interest payments due October 1, 2008 and January 1, 2009. Such deferral resulted in those payments, plus a ten percent (10%) deferral charge being added to the principal balance of those debentures. In February 2009, we were delisted from the NASDAQ National Market, constituting a default on the entire debenture balance. We are currently negotiating waivers for this default. However, as a result of the default, investors can call the debentures and demand immediate repayment. Our inability to repay the outstanding balance can result in our debenture holders exercising their remedies under the accompanying security agreements and foreclosing on substantially all of our assets. In such instance, we could be forced to seek bankruptcy protection or the debenture holders could take our assets as satisfaction of their indebtedness. In either instance, this will result in a total loss of our common shareholders’ investment. Our independent registered public accounting firm has raised concerns about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our auditors have added an explanatory paragraph to their opinion on our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2008 because of concerns about our ability to continue as a going concern. These concerns arise from the fact that we have not yet established an ongoing source of revenues sufficient to cover our operating costs and we must raise additional capital in order to continue to operate our business. If we fail to generate positive cash flows or obtain additional financing when required, we may have to modify, delay or abandon some or all of our business and expansion plans. 4 The Company has a history of recurring losses from operations and has an accumulated deficit of $36,996,720 as of December 31, 2008. Sales of the InCard DisplayCard, the Company’s main product, are not expected to generate positive cash flow until the fourth quarter of 2009. As a result, there is substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plan regarding these matters is to raise additional debt and/or equity financing to allow it the ability to cover its current cash flow requirements and meet its obligations as they become due. There can be no assurances that funds will be available to the Company when needed or, if available, that such funds would be available under favorable terms. In the event that the Company is unable to generate adequate revenues to cover expenses and cannot obtain additional funds in the near future, the Company may seek protection under bankruptcy laws. Our common shares were delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. On February 20, 2009, our common shares were delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. As a result of the delisting, our shares now trade on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board and on the Pinksheets. Historically, the volume and liquidity of these two markets has been significantly less than on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Addition, shares listed these markets are unlikely to be followed by any market analysts, and there may be few institutions acting as market makers for our common stock. Either of these factors could adversely affect the liquidity and trading price of our common stock and could result in large fluctuations or market price. Our common stock is subject to the penny stock regulations and restrictions which may create a lack of liquidity and make trading difficult or impossible. The trading of our securities, if any, will be in the OTCBB as maintained by FINRA. As a result, an investor may find it difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of our common stock. Rule 3a51-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a minimum bid price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to a limited number of exceptions which are not available to us. It is likely that our shares will be considered to be penny stocks for the immediately foreseeable future. This classification severely and adversely affects any market liquidity for our common stock. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the penny stock rules require that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks and the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must obtain financial information and investment experience and objectives of the person and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and that that person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form, sets forth: · the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination, and · that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and commissions’ payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Because of these regulations, broker-dealers may not wish to engage in the above-referenced necessary paperwork and disclosures and/or may encounter difficulties in their attempt to sell shares of our common stock, which may affect the ability of selling shareholders or other holders to sell their shares in any secondary market and have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in any secondary market. These additional sales practice and disclosure requirements could impede the sale of our common stock, if and when our common stock becomes publicly traded. In addition, the liquidity for our common stock may decrease, with a corresponding decrease in the price of our common stock. Our shares, in all probability, will be subject to such penny stock rules for the foreseeable future and our shareholders will, in all likelihood, find it difficult to sell their common stock. 5 The market for penny stocks has experienced numerous frauds and abuses which could adversely impact investors perception of our stock. We believe that the market for penny stocks has suffered from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: · Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; · Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; · “Boiler room" practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; · Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and · Wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. As a result, investors may have the perception that penny stock are too risky which will make developing an active market for our common shares more difficult. We are an early stage company with an unproven business strategy. Our limited history of operations makes evaluation of our business and prospects difficult. Our business prospects are difficult to predict because of our limited operating history, early stage of development and unproven business strategy. Since our incorporation, we have primarily been and continue to be involved in development of products using our power inlay technology and marketing these products to industry partners. In 1998, our founder commenced commercialization of our first product, the LensCard, and entered into license agreements with banks and credit card issuers, most of which have terminated. After discovering the possibility of placing power into an International Organization of Standards (ISO) compliant card, we began to focus our efforts on the development of our power inlay technology and not on the marketing of the LensCard. For these reasons, we expect that future orders for the LensCard will be insignificant. We closed our first commercial sale of our InCard DisplayCard, which uses our power inlay technology, in the fourth quarter of 2007. Although we believe that our power inlay technology and products under development have significant profit potential, we may not attain profitable operations and may not succeed in realizing our business objectives. We may currently be operating in the “zone of insolvency” and as a result our directors’ fiduciary duty may be to creditors and shareholders. Generally, a corporation’s directors owe a fiduciary duty to the corporation’s shareholders and not to its creditors. The duties of the directors to creditors do not expand beyond the relevant contractual terms. However, when a corporation is operating in the “zone of insolvency,” some courts have concluded that the fiduciary duty of directors shifts to include creditors. Delaware courts have taken the position that directors of a corporation operating in the zone of insolvency continue to owe a fiduciary duty to the corporation’ shareholders but also to its creditors. Accordingly, management and the directors are required to consider their duties with regard to both shareholders and creditors in their decision making process. We have an accumulated deficit of $36,996,720 as of December 31, 2008 and we may never achieve profitability We have incurred significant net losses every year since our inception, including net losses of $8,929,537 and $14,333,622 for the fiscal years ending December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $36,996,720. These losses have resulted principally from expenses incurred in our research and development programs and general and administrative expenses. To date we have not generated significant revenues. We have sustained operations through the issuance of our securities. We anticipate that we will continue to incur substantial operating losses based on projected sales revenues less manufacturing, general and administrative and other operating costs for an indefinite period of time. We cannot assure you that we will ever be profitable and accordingly, will be completely dependent on raising additional capital through the sale of our securities, if possible. To be successful we may require additional capital, which we may be unable to obtain. We believe that our current cash, combined with anticipated revenue collections, will be enough to fund our operations through the end of this year. We currently do not have any binding commitments for, or readily available sources of additional financing, and we cannot assure you that such funding will be available at all or available on terms acceptable to us. If we are unable to raise additional capital we may be forced to file for bankruptcy. We depend on a limited number of suppliers, and we will be unable to manufacture or deliver our products if shipments from these suppliers stop, are late or are otherwise interrupted . We obtain the battery, a key component for our power inlay technology, from a single source on a purchase order basis from Solicore, Inc. In the event of a disruption or discontinuation in supply, we could may not be able to obtain replacement batteries on a timely basis, which would disrupt our operations, delay production and impair our ability to manufacture and sell our products. We obtain the display, a key component for the InCard DisplayCard, from a single source, SmartDisplayer, under a written agreement. In the event of a disruption or discontinuation in supply, we may not be able to obtain replacement displays on a timely basis, which would disrupt our operations, delay production and impair our ability to manufacture and sell our InCard DisplayCard. 6 Our dependence upon outside suppliers exposes us to risks, including: · the possibility that our suppliers will experience major disruptions in production, which is exacerbated by the fact that we are a major customer of our suppliers; · the solvency of our suppliers and the potential that our suppliers will be solely dependent upon us; · the potential inability of our suppliers to obtain required components or products; · reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery, due to the difficulties in switching to alternative suppliers; · the potential delays and expense of seeking alternative sources of suppliers; and · increases in prices of key components. If we are not able to devote adequate resources to product development and commercialization, we may not be able to develop our products. Our business strategy is to develop and market new products using our power inlay technology that can enhance payment and other information-bearing plastic cards. We believe that our revenue growth and profitability, if any, will substantially depend upon our ability to: · mass produce the InCard DisplayCard at significantly lower cost; · continue to fund research and development endeavors; · complete development of new products; and · successfully introduce and commercialize new products. If we do not devote adequate resources to our product development efforts, we may be unable to develop our products, which would adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability. If we or our suppliers fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, third parties could use our technology, or very similar technology, and could reduce our ability to compete in the market, and any proprietary rights litigation could be time-consuming and expensive to prosecute and defend. Establishment of patents and other proprietary rights by us and our suppliers is important to our success and our competitive position. Performance in the payment card industry can depend, among other factors, on patent protection. Our policy is to identify patentable inventions developed by our company, and to seek to acquire patent rights for such inventions. We mainly develop and patent technology in the fields of card enhancements and methods of card manufacturing. We seek to obtain a reasonably broad territorial protection for our patented technologies. We usually file initial patent applications in the United States, and subsequently file corresponding applications in foreign countries depending on the relevant circumstances. We may elect to forego patent protection for some of our proprietary technologies and treat such technologies as trade secrets. Despite our efforts to establish and protect our patents, trade secrets or other proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our technology or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights as much as the laws of the United States protect them. Our means of establishing and protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around our patents or our other proprietary rights. We have limited patent protection for our InCard DisplayCard. Due to the importance of proprietary technology in the payment card industry, our business involves a risk of overlap with third party patents and subsequent litigation with competitors or patent-holders. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, or cause us to enter into licensing agreements 7 We depend on key personnel in a competitive market for skilled employees, and failure to retain and attract qualified personnel could substantially harm our business. We rely to a substantial extent on the management, marketing and product development skills of our key employees and consultants, particularly Richard Nathan, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Craig Nelson, who supervises the manufacturing and testing of the InCard DisplayCard, and Mark Poidomani, our chief technology officer, to formulate and implement our business plan, including the development of our power inlay technology. Our success depends to a significant extent upon our ability to retain and attract key personnel. Competition for employees can be intense in the payment card industry, and the process of locating key personnel with the right combination of skills is often lengthy. The loss of the services of our key personnel may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and could have a material adverse effect on us. If our future products do not achieve a significant level of market acceptance, it is highly unlikely that we ever will become profitable. The commercial success of our future products will depend upon the adoption of our power inlay technology as a preferred method of applying card enhancements to payment cards. In order to be successful, our future products must meet the technical and cost requirements for card enhancements within the payment card industry. Market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: · our ability to convince prospective strategic partners and customers to adopt our products; · the willingness and ability of prospective strategic partners and customers to adopt our products; and · our ability to sell and service sufficient quantities of our products. Because of these and other factors, our products may not achieve market acceptance. If our products do not achieve a significant level of market acceptance, demand for our future products will not develop as expected and it is highly unlikely that we ever will become profitable. We have granted third parties substantial marketing rights to certain of our products and products under development. If the third parties are not successful in marketing our products, we may not be able to commercialize our products. Some of our agreements with our corporate marketing partners contain no minimum purchase requirements in order for them to maintain their exclusive marketing rights. In the future, third-party marketing assistance may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. If marketing partners do not order adequate quantities of our products or if we are unable to procure third-party marketing assistance on reasonable terms, we may not be able to commercialize our products, which could negatively impact our results of operations or substantially limit our ability to execute our business strategy. We may experience customer concentration in the enterprise and on-line banking marketplace, which may expose us to all of the risks faced by our potential material customers. Until and unless we secure multiple customer relationships in the enterprise and on-line banking marketplaces, we may experience periods during which we will be highly dependent on one or a limited number of customers. Dependence on a single or a few customers will make it difficult to satisfactorily negotiate attractive prices for our products and will expose us to the risk of substantial losses if a single dominant customer stops conducting business with us. Moreover, to the extent that we may be dependent on any single customer, we could be subject to the risks faced by that customer to the extent that such risks impede the customer’s ability to stay in business and make timely payments to us. Failure to manufacture in mass production may have a material negative effect on our business strategy and operations. Our power inlay technology has only been produced in limited production quantities. We are applying our own resources and working in cooperation with other companies that have specialized technical expertise related to the power inlay technology for thin, flexible non-payment cards. Failure to secure or maintain exclusive rights or failure to successfully transition to full scale production, without the use of proprietary technology of others, may have a material negative effect on our business strategy and operations. We rely substantially on third-party manufacturers. The loss of any third-party manufacturer could limit our ability to launch our products in a timely manner, or at all. To be successful, we must manufacture, or contract for the manufacture of, our future products in compliance with industry standards and on a timely basis, while maintaining product quality and acceptable manufacturing costs. As discussed in the risk factor above, we are working in cooperation with other companies that have specialized technical expertise related to the manufacturing process of our power inlay technology for the InCard DisplayCard. We also currently use a limited number of sources for most of the supplies and services that we use in the manufacturing of our power inlay technology and prototypes. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following risks: · delays in the quantities needed for product development could delay commercialization of our products in development; · if we need to change to other commercial manufacturers, any new manufacturer would have to be educated in, or develop substantially equivalent processes necessary for, the production of our products; 8 · if market demand for our products increases suddenly, our current manufacturers might not be able to fulfill our commercial needs, which would require us to seek new manufacturing arrangements and may result in substantial delays in meeting market demand; and · we may not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to any improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our products. Any of these factors could delay commercialization of our products under development, entail higher costs and result in our being unable to effectively sell our products. Some of our competitors have significantly greater resources than we do and may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, which could adversely affect our ability to generate or maintain revenues and be profitable. We believe that the principal competitive factors that affect the market for tokens include convenience, price, quality/reliability, ease of use, and distribution cost. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our competitive position against current and potential competitors, especially those with significant marketing, service, support, technical and other competitive resources. Some of our present and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, purchasing and other resources than we do, and as a result, may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products, or to deliver competitive products at a lower end-user price. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of our prospective customers. It is possible that new competitors or alliances may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete successfully against present or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Securities We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, which may reduce your return on an investment in our common stock. We plan to use all of our earnings, to the extent we have earnings, to fund our operations. We do not plan to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We cannot guarantee that we will, at any time, generate sufficient surplus cash that would be available for distribution as a dividend to the holders of our common stock. Therefore, any return on your investment would derive from an increase in the price of our stock, which may or may not occur. Substantial future sales of our common stock in the public market may depress our stock price, which could result in significant losses to you and could limit our ability to raise capital. As of December 31, 2008, we had 28,495,256 shares of common stock outstanding. All of these shares can be traded pursuant to a prospectus or via a transaction pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. On a fully diluted basis, including shares issuable upon exercise of warrants and stock options, we have 40,180,853 shares. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of common stock in the public market, or the market perceives that such sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could fall, which could result in a significant loss on any investment you make in our common stock. The sale of a large number of shares could impair our ability to raise needed capital by depressing the price at which we could sell our common stock. We may be subject to securities litigation as the price of our common stock has drastically decreased over the past nine months. During the past nine months, the price of our common stock has decreased from $1.27 on June 30, 2008 to $0.12 as of March 31, 2009. Although management feels that at all times it has acted in the best interest of the company’s shareholders, such declines in stock price have historically increased the probability of becoming the subject of a securities class action law suit. If we were to become the target of such litigation, we will have to spend considerable time and resources in defending such litigation. This would result in management diverting its focus from the development and sale of our products. Additionally, such litigation can also be extremely costly and deplete our assets. We may raise additional capital through a securities offering that could dilute your ownership interest and voting rights. Our certificate of incorporation currently authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 75,000,000 shares of common stock and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock. As of December 31, 2008, after taking into consideration our outstanding common and preferred shares, our board of directors will be entitled to issue up to 46,504,744 additional common shares and 5,000,000 preferred shares. The power of the board of directors to issue these shares of common stock, preferred stock or warrants or options to purchase shares of our stock is generally not subject to stockholder approval. 9 We may require additional working capital to fund our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-related or convertible debt securities, these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. The issuance of additional common stock or securities convertible into common stock by our board of directors will also have the effect of diluting the proportionate equity interest and voting power of holders of our common stock. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Our incorporation documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also limit the market price of your stock, which may inhibit an attempt by our stockholders to change our direction or management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Some of these provisions: · authorize our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions granted to, or imposed upon, the preferred stock and to fix the number of shares constituting any series and the designation of such series without further action by our stockholders; · prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings; · prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise allow less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; · establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; and · prohibit stockholder action by written consent, requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporate Law. These provisions may prohibit large stockholders, in particular those owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, from merging or combining with us, which may prevent or frustrate any attempt by our stockholders to change our management or the direction in which we are heading. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. New rules, including those contained in and issued under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, may make it difficult for us to retain or attract qualified officers and directors, which could adversely affect the management of our business and our ability to obtain or retain listing of our common stock. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified officers, directors and members of board committees required to provide for our effective management as a result of the recent and currently proposed changes in the rules and regulations that govern publicly held companies, including, but not limited to, certifications from executive officers and requirements for financial experts on the board of directors. The perceived increased personal risk associated with these recent changes may deter qualified individuals from accepting these roles. The enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 has resulted in the issuance of a series of new rules and regulations and the strengthening of existing rules and regulations by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). Further, certain of these recent and proposed changes heighten the requirements for board or committee membership, particularly with respect to an individual’s independence from the corporation and level of experience in finance and accounting matters. We may have difficulty attracting and retaining directors with the requisite qualifications. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified officers and directors, the management of our business could be adversely affected. Our management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2008, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”), has evaluated the effectiveness of the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”)) as of December 31, 2008. Based on such evaluation which disclosed numerous material weaknesses, our CEO and CFO have concluded that, as of December 31, 2008, the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were not effective in recording, processing, summarizing and reporting, on a timely basis, information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act and were not effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company’s management, including the Company’s CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. If we fail to implement new or improved disclosure controls, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. 10 We have identified numerous material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on internal control over financial reporting in their Annual Reports on Form 10-K. This report is required to contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of a company’s internal control over financial reporting. Our non-affiliated market capitalization qualified us as a “Smaller Reporting Company” effective in 2009. As a result, we are required to include our management’s report on internal control over financial reporting in this Annual Report but are not required to include our auditors’ attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting. As discussed in Item 9A to this Annual Report, we have concluded that, as of December 31, 2008, our internal control over financial reporting was not effective and have identified a number of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. While we intend to remedy these weaknesses during the current fiscal year, we may be unable to do so. If we fail to implement required new or improved controls there may be an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 