RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Operations and the Brazilian Power Industry We are subject to extensive governmental legislation and regulation and to major regulatory changes that are still being implemented by the Brazilian government, and we cannot be certain of their effect on our business and results of operations. We are a major Brazilian power company that distributes electricity to customers in the Brazilian states of São Paulo, Paraná and Rio Grande do Sul and generates and commercializes electricity throughout Brazil. In recent years, the Brazilian government has implemented policies that have had a far-reaching impact on the Brazilian power industry and, in particular, the electricity industry. Law No. 10,848 for the New Electric Energy Industry Model (Lei do Novo Modelo do Setor Elétrico, or New Industry Model Law), which governs the operations of companies in the power industry, was enacted on March 16, 2004. The New Industry Model Law was implemented by Decree no. 5,163, dated July 30, 2004 and remains subject to further implementation by resolutions of ANEEL. The constitutionality of the New Industry Model Law is currently being challenged before the Brazilian Supreme Court (“Ações Diretas de Inconstitucionalidade” or “ADIs” No. 3.090, filed by the Social Democratic Brazilian Party (“PSDB”) and No. 3.100, filed by the Liberal Coalition Party (“PFL”)). The Brazilian Supreme Court has not reached a final decision yet and, therefore, the New Industry Model Law is currently in force. If all or part of the New Industry Model Law is considered to be unconstitutional by the Brazilian Supreme Court, the regulatory scheme introduced by the New Industry Model Law may not come into effect, which would create uncertainty as to how and when the Brazilian government will be able to introduce changes to the electricity sector. Reforms under the New Industry Model Law include: (1) the creation of a regulated market for the purchase and sale of electricity, where distributors must contract in advance, through public bids conducted by ANEEL, for 100% of their forecasted electricity needs, (2) a prohibition on distributors carrying out any business other than distribution, including generation or transmission of electricity, or holding equity interests in other companies, except as provided by law or the distributor’s concession agreement, (3) a prohibition on distributors seeking to meet part of their electricity needs by purchasing from affiliated companies and (4) a prohibition on distributors selling electricity at non-regulated prices. In particular, in order to be in full compliance with item (2) above, we were required to implement a corporate reorganization in our distribution subsidiaries. The original deadline for reorganization set by ANEEL was September 16, 2005. We received an extension with respect to CPFL Piratininga until April 14, 2006, and we completed its reorganization by the deadline. We received an extension with respect to RGE until March 14, 2007, and we completed its reorganization by the deadline. The outcome of these reorganizations may have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Additionally, the outcome of the legal proceedings and future reforms in the power industry are difficult to predict, but they could have an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—The Brazilian Power Industry.” We are uncertain as to the renewal of our concessions. We carry out our generation and distribution activities pursuant to concession agreements entered into with the Brazilian federal government. The Brazilian constitution requires that all concessions relating to public services be awarded through a bidding process. In 1995, in an effort to implement these constitutional provisions, the federal government adopted certain laws and regulations, known collectively as the Concessions Law, governing bidding procedures in the electricity industry. In accordance with the Concessions Law, as modified by the New Industry Model Law, upon application by the concessionaire, existing concessions may be renewed by the federal government for additional periods of up to 30 years without being subject to the bidding process, provided that the concessionaire has met minimum performance standards and that the proposal is otherwise acceptable to the Federal Government. In light of the degree of discretion granted to the federal government by the Concessions Law and the concession contracts with respect to renewal of existing concessions, and given the lack of long-standing precedents with respect to the federal government’s exercise of such discretion and interpretation and application of the Concessions Law, we cannot assure you that new concessions will be obtained or that concessions will be renewed on terms as favorable as those currently in effect. In addition, it is possible that our large industrial clients could be authorized by ANEEL to generate electric energy for self consumption or sale to third parties, in which case they may obtain an authorization or concession for the generation of electric power in a given area, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 7 Table of Contents The tariffs that we charge for sales of electricity to captive consumers are determined by ANEEL pursuant to a concession agreement with the Brazilian government, and our operating revenues could be adversely affected if ANEEL makes decisions relating to our tariffs that are not favorable to us. ANEEL has substantial discretion to establish the tariff rates we charge our customers. Our tariffs are determined pursuant to concession agreements with ANEEL, and in accordance with ANEEL’s regulations and decisions. Our concession agreements and Brazilian law establish a price cap mechanism that permits three types of tariff adjustments: (1) the annual adjustment (reajuste anual), (2) the periodic revision (revisão periódica) and (3) the extraordinary revision (revisão extraordinária). We are entitled to apply each year for the annual adjustment, which is designed to offset some effects of inflation on tariffs and pass through to customers certain changes in our cost structure that are beyond our control, such as the cost of electricity we purchase from certain sources and certain regulatory charges, including charges for the use of transmission and distribution facilities. In addition, ANEEL carries out a periodic revision every four or five years that is aimed at identifying variations in our costs as well as setting a factor based on our operational efficiency that will be applied against the index of our ongoing annual tariff adjustments, the objective of which is to share any related gains with our customers. We are also entitled to request an extraordinary revision of our tariffs if unpredictable costs significantly alter our cost structure. We cannot be sure if ANEEL will establish tariffs at rates that are favorable to us, especially in the tariff revision process. In addition, to the extent that any of these adjustments are not granted by ANEEL in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. For more information on ANEEL, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—The Brazilian Power Industry—Principal Regulatory Authorities—ANEEL.” We could be penalized by ANEEL for failing to comply with the terms of our concession agreements, which could result in fines, other penalties and, depending on the gravity of the non-compliance, in our concessions being terminated. We carry out our generation and distribution activities pursuant to concession agreements entered into with the Brazilian government. These concessions range in duration from 30 to 35 years, with the first expiration date in 2027, except for the concession held by our newly acquired subsidiary, Companhia Luz e Força Santa Cruz, or Santa Cruz. Santa Cruz holds a concession agreement to distribute electricity that expires in July 2015, with an option to renew for an additional 20 years. ANEEL may impose penalties on us in the event that we fail to comply with any provision of our concession agreements. Depending on the gravity of the non-compliance, these penalties could include the following: warning notices; fines per breach of up to 2.0% of the concessionaire’s revenues in the year ended immediately prior to the date of the relevant breach; injunctions related to the construction of new facilities and equipment; restrictions on the operation of existing facilities and equipment; temporary suspension from participating in bidding processes for new concessions; intervention by ANEEL in the management of the concessionaire; and termination of the concession. In addition, the Brazilian government has the power to terminate any of our concessions prior to the end of the concession term in the case of bankruptcy or dissolution, or by means of expropriation for reasons related to the public interest. We are currently in compliance with all of the material terms of our concession agreements. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be penalized by ANEEL for breaching our concession agreements or that our 8 Table of Contents concessions will not be terminated in the future. The compensation to which we are entitled upon termination of our concessions may not be sufficient for us to realize the full value of certain assets. If any of our concession agreements is terminated for reasons attributable to us, the effective amount of compensation by the granting authorities could be materially reduced through the imposition of fines or other penalties. Accordingly, the imposition of fines or penalties on us or the termination of any of our concessions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to fully pass through the costs of our electricity purchases and, to meet demand, we could be forced to enter into short-term agreements to purchase electricity at prices substantially higher than under our long-term purchase agreements. Under the New Industry Model Law, an electricity distributor must contract in advance, through public bids, for 100% of its forecasted electricity needs for its distribution concession areas. If our forecasted demand is incorrect and we purchase less or more electricity than we need, we may be prevented from fully passing through the costs of our electricity purchases. For instance, the New Industry Model Law provides, among other restrictions, that if our forecasts fall significantly short of actual electricity demand, we may be forced to make up the shortfall with shorter term electricity purchase agreements. If our acquisitions of electricity in the public auctions are above the Annual Reference Value (Valor Anual de Referência) established by the Brazilian Government, we may not be able to fully pass through the costs of our electricity purchases. We cannot guarantee that our forecasted electricity demand will be accurate. If there are significant variations between our electricity needs and the volume of our electricity purchases, our results of operations may be adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—The Brazilian Power Industry—The New Industry Model Law.” ANEEL may limit distributions that our regulated subsidiaries may make to us. The amounts that our regulated subsidiaries may distribute to us in the form of dividends in any given fiscal year depend on such subsidiaries making a profit, as calculated in accordance with Law No. 6,404 of December 15, 1976, as amended and supplemented, or Brazilian Corporate Law. Despite the significant cash flow generated by our regulated subsidiaries, their results are affected by the amortization of goodwill created upon the acquisition of RGE, Semesa and Nova 4 and by depreciation. As a result, this limitation may eventually prevent some portion of the cash generated by our regulated subsidiaries from being distributed to us as dividends, and we would require ANEEL approval to conduct a capital reduction. We generate a significant portion of our operating revenues from customers that qualify as “potentially free” consumers, and who are allowed to seek alternative electricity suppliers upon the expiration of their contracts with us or by providing at least one year prior notice if their contract with us is for an undetermined period of time. We hold concessions to distribute electricity in 261 of the 645 municipalities in the State of São Paulo and 262 of the 467 municipalities in the State of Rio Grande do Sul. Through our newly acquired subsidiary Santa Cruz, we now also hold concessions to distribute electricity in 24 additional municipalities in the State of São Paulo and 3 of the 399 municipalities in the State of Paraná. Within our concession areas, we do not face competition in the distribution of low voltage electricity to residential, commercial and industrial customers. However, other electricity suppliers are now permitted to compete with us in offering electricity to certain consumers that qualify as “potentially free” consumers, to whom our distribution subsidiaries may supply electricity only at regulated tariffs. Potentially free consumers are those whose demand generally exceeds 3 MW, supplied with electricity at a voltage equal to or higher than 69 kV (or at any other voltage, as long as the service began by July 1995). Such potentially free consumers may elect to opt out of our regulated distribution system upon the expiration of their contracts with us, or by providing one year prior notice if their contract with us is valid for an undetermined period of time. At December 31, 2006, we supplied energy to 59 potentially free consumers, which accounted for approximately 3.2% of our net operating revenues and approximately 4% of the total volume of electricity sold by our distributors during 2006. In addition, customers that consume between 500 kW and 3 MW, as well as those with demand equal to or higher than 3 MW supplied with electricity at a voltage lower than 69 kV, to whom service began before 1995, may become free consumers if they move to energy from renewable energy sources, such as Small Hydroelectric Power Plants or biomass. At December 31, 2006 we had a total of 1,413 of these customers that accounted for approximately 17.9% of our net operating revenues and approximately 21% of the total volume of electricity sold by our distribution subsidiaries during 2006. A decision by our potentially free consumers to become free consumers and purchase electricity from electricity suppliers serving free consumers located in our concession areas could adversely affect our market share and results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our operating results depend on prevailing hydrological conditions. The impact of an electricity shortage and related electricity rationing, as in 2001 and 2002, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent on the prevailing hydrological conditions in the geographic region in which we operate. In 2006, according to data from the National Electrical System Operator, Operador Nacional do Sistema Elétrico, or ONS, more than 91.8% of Brazil’s electricity supply came from hydroelectric generation facilities. Our region is subject to unpredictable hydrological conditions, with non-cyclical deviations from average rainfall. The most recent period of low rainfall was in the years prior to 2001, when the Brazilian government instituted the Rationing Program, a program to reduce electricity consumption that was in effect from June 1, 2001 to February 28, 2002. The Rationing Program established limits for energy consumption for industrial, commercial and residential consumers, which ranged from a 15% to a 25% reduction in energy consumption, and lasted from June 2001 until February 2002. If Brazil experiences another electricity shortage, the Brazilian government may implement similar or other policies in the future to address the shortage that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A recurrence of poor hydrological conditions that result in a low supply of electricity to the Brazilian market could cause, among other things, the implementation of broad electricity conservation programs, including mandated reductions in electricity consumption. We cannot assure you that periods of severe or sustained below-average rainfall will not adversely affect our future financial results. Construction, expansion and operation of our electricity generation and distribution facilities and equipment involve significant risks that could lead to lost revenues or increased expenses. The construction, expansion and operation of facilities and equipment for the generation and distribution of electricity involves many risks, including: the inability to obtain required governmental permits and approvals; the unavailability of equipment; supply interruptions; work stoppages; labor unrest; social unrest; weather and hydrological interferences; unforeseen engineering and environmental problems; increases in electricity losses, including technical and commercial losses; construction and operational delays, or unanticipated cost overruns; and unavailability of adequate funding. If we experience these or other problems, we may not be able to generate and distribute electricity in amounts consistent with our projections, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have insurance for many of these risks. Our equipment, facilities and operations are subject to numerous environmental and health regulations that may become more stringent in the future and may result in increased liabilities and increased capital expenditures. Our distribution and generation activities are subject to comprehensive federal and state legislation as well as supervision by Brazilian governmental agencies that are responsible for the implementation of environmental and 10 Table of Contents health laws and policies. These agencies could take enforcement action against us for our failure to comply with their regulations. These actions could include, among other things, the imposition of fines and revocation of licenses. It is possible that enhanced environmental and health regulations will force us to allocate capital expenditures towards compliance, and consequently, divert funds away from planned investments. Such a diversion could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to complete our proposed capital expenditure program in a timely manner, the operation and development of our business may be adversely affected. We plan to invest approximately R$1,326 million in our generation activities and R$2,444 in our distribution activities during the period from 2007 through 2010. Our ability to carry out this capital expenditure program depends on a variety of factors, including our ability to charge adequate tariffs for our services, our access to domestic and international capital markets and a variety of operating, regulatory and other contingencies. We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources to complete our proposed capital expenditure program, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the operation and development of our business. We are strictly liable for any damages resulting from inadequate rendering of electricity services, and our contracted insurance policies may not fully cover such damages. Under Brazilian law we are strictly liable for direct and indirect damages resulting from the inadequate rendering of electricity distribution services. In addition, our distribution facilities may, together with our generation utilities, be held liable for damages caused to others as a result of interruptions or disturbances arising from the generation, transmission or distribution systems, whenever these interruptions or disturbances are not attributed to an identifiable member of the ONS. We are controlled by a few shareholders acting together, and their interests could conflict with yours. As of December 31, 2006, VBC Energia S.A., or VBC, 521 Participações S.A., or 521, and Bonaire Participações S.A., or Bonaire, owned 28.97%, 31.11% and 12.65%, respectively, of our outstanding common shares. These entities are parties to a shareholders’ agreement, dated as of March 22, 2002 and amended in August 2002 and November 2003, pursuant to which they share the power to control us. Our controlling shareholders may take actions that could be contrary to your interests, and our controlling shareholders will be able to prevent other shareholders, including you, from blocking these actions. In particular, our controlling shareholders control the outcome of decisions at shareholders’ meetings, and they can elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors. Our controlling shareholders can direct our actions in areas such as business strategy, financing, distributions, acquisitions and dispositions of assets or businesses. Their decisions on these matters may be contrary to the expectations or preferences of our minority shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions— Shareholders’ Agreement.” We are exposed to increases in prevailing market interest rates, as well as foreign exchange rate risk. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 86.5% of our total indebtedness was denominated in reais and indexed to Brazilian money-market rates or inflation rates, or bore interest at floating rates. The remaining 13.5% of our total indebtedness was denominated in U.S. dollars and Japanese yen and substantially subject to currency swaps that converted these obligations into reais. Accordingly, if these indexation rates rise or the U.S. dollar/real or Japanese yen/real exchange rates appreciate, our financing expenses will increase. 11 Table of Contents Our substantial leverage and debt service obligations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and make payments on our debt. We are highly leveraged and have significant debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2006, we had debt of R$5,070 million. Our substantial level of indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay when due the principal, interest or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. In addition, we may incur additional debt from time to time to finance strategic acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions applicable to our existing indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our debt, would increase. We may acquire other companies in the electricity business, as we have in the past, and these acquisitions will absorb our management’s time and may not result in increased operational efficiency. We regularly analyze opportunities to acquire other companies engaged in activities along the entire electricity generation, transmission and distribution chain. If we do acquire other electricity companies, it will consume a portion of our management’s focus and could increase our leverage or reduce our profitability. Furthermore, we may not be able to integrate the acquired company’s activities and achieve the economies of scale and expected efficiency gains that often drive such acquisitions, and failure to do so could harm our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully control electricity losses, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We experience two types of electricity losses: technical losses and commercial losses. Technical losses occur in the ordinary course of our distribution of electricity. Commercial losses result from illegal connections, fraud and underbilling. Our total electricity losses in 2006 were 8.50% at CPFL Paulista, 6.31% at CPFL Piratininga and 10.82% at RGE, as compared to losses in 2005 of 8.13% at CPFL Paulista, 6.30% at CPFL Piratininga and 10.78% at RGE, in each case, of total electricity distributed. We cannot assure you that the strategies we have used will be effective in combating electricity losses. An increase in electricity losses could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. This involvement, as well as Brazilian political and economic conditions, could adversely affect our business and the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policy and regulations. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and other policies and regulations have often involved, among other measures, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in policy or regulations involving or affecting exchange controls, as well as factors such as: currency fluctuations; inflation; interest rates; liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; tax policies; and other political, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. A presidential election was held in Brazil in October 2006 and President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva was reelected for a new term of four years. The President of Brazil has considerable power to determine governmental 12 Table of Contents policies and actions that relate to the Brazilian economy and, consequently, affect the operations and financial performance of businesses, such as ours. Uncertainties about future developments in the Brazilian economy may adversely affect us, our business, our results of operations and the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. Fluctuations in the value of the Brazilian real against the U.S. dollar may result in uncertainty in the Brazilian economy and the Brazilian securities market, and they could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flow. The Brazilian real has historically suffered frequent devaluation. In the past, the Brazilian government has implemented various economic plans and exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations, periodic mini-devaluations during which the frequency of adjustments has ranged from daily to monthly, floating exchange rate systems, exchange controls and dual exchange rate markets. Although over long periods depreciation of the real generally is correlated with the differential in the inflation rate in Brazil versus the inflation rate in the U.S., depreciation over shorter periods has resulted in significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the real and the U.S. dollar and other currencies. The real appreciated by 8.7% against the U.S. dollar in 2006, and appreciated by 9.8% during the first five months of 2007. The exchange rate between the real and the U.S. dollar may continue to fluctuate and may rise or decline substantially from current levels. For additional information about historical exchange rates, see “Item 3. Key Information—Exchange Rates.” Depreciation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar increases the cost of servicing our dollar-denominated debt and the cost of purchasing electricity from the Itaipu power plant, a hydroelectric facility that is one of our major suppliers and that adjusts electricity prices based in part on its U.S. dollar costs. Depreciation of the real also creates additional inflationary pressures in Brazil that may negatively affect us. Depreciation generally curtails access to international capital markets and may prompt government intervention, including recessionary governmental policies. It also reduces the U.S. dollar value of distributions and dividends on the ADSs and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our common shares and, as a result, the ADSs. Inflation and efforts by the Brazilian government to combat inflation may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil and could harm our business and the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation. More recently, Brazil’s annual rate of inflation was 12.4% in 2004, 1.2% in 2005 and 3.8% in 2006 as measured by the General Market Price Index (¥ndice Geral de Preços–Mercado, or IGP-M). Inflation, and certain government actions taken to combat inflation, has in the past had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Measures to curb inflation, and speculation about possible future governmental measures, have contributed to economic uncertainty in Brazil and heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets. Future measures taken by the Brazilian government, including interest rate increases, intervention in the foreign exchange market and actions to adjust or fix the value of the real may trigger increases in inflation, and consequently, have adverse economic impacts on our business. If Brazil experiences high inflation in the future, we may not be able to adjust the rates we charge our customers to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structure. Inflationary pressures may also hinder our ability to access foreign financial markets or lead to government policies to combat inflation that could harm our business or adversely affect the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. The perception of risk in other countries, especially emerging market countries, may adversely affect the market price of Brazilian securities, including the ADSs and our common shares. The market value of securities of Brazilian companies is affected to varying degrees by economic and market conditions in other countries, including other Latin American and emerging market countries. Although economic conditions in such countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, investors’ reactions to developments in these other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Crises in other emerging market countries may hamper investor enthusiasm for securities of Brazilian issuers, including ours. This could adversely affect the market price of the ADSs or our common shares. 13 Table of Contents Access to and the cost of borrowing in international capital markets for Brazilian companies are influenced by investor perceptions of risk in Brazil and other emerging economies, which may hurt our ability to finance our operations at an acceptable cost or reduce the trading price of our securities. International investors generally consider Brazil to be an emerging market. As a result, economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries, especially those in Latin America, influence the market for securities issued by Brazilian companies. Economic crises in one or more emerging market countries may reduce overall investor appetite for securities of emerging market issuers. Past economic crises in emerging markets, such as in Southeast Asia, Russia and Argentina, have resulted in significant outflows of U.S. dollars from Brazil and caused Brazilian companies to face higher costs for raising funds, both domestically and abroad, and have effectively impeded the access to international capital markets for extended periods. We cannot assure you that international capital markets will remain open to Brazilian companies or that prevailing interest rates in these markets will be advantageous to us. In addition, future financial crises in emerging market countries may have a negative impact on the Brazilian markets, which could adversely affect the trading price of our securities. Risks Relating to the ADSs and Our Common Shares You may not be able to sell the ADSs at the time or the price you desire because an active or liquid market for our ADSs may not be sustained. Our common ADSs have been listed on New York Stock Exchange since September 29, 2004. Although our ADSs are currently traded on the New York Stock Exchange, we cannot predict whether an active liquid public trading market for our ADSs will be sustained. Active, liquid trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders for investors. Liquidity of a securities market is often a function of the volume of the underlying shares that are publicly held by unrelated parties. Although ADS holders are entitled to withdraw the common shares underlying the ADSs from the depositary at any time, we do not anticipate that a public market for our common shares will develop in the United States. Holders of our ADSs may encounter difficulties in the exercise of voting rights. Holders of our common shares are entitled to vote on shareholder matters. You may encounter difficulties in the exercise of some of your rights as a shareholder if you hold our ADSs rather than the underlying common shares. For example, you are not entitled to attend a shareholders’ meeting, and you can only vote by giving timely instructions to the depositary in advance of the meeting. If you surrender your ADSs and withdraw common shares, you risk losing the ability to remit foreign currency abroad and certain Brazilian tax advantages. As an ADS holder, you will benefit from the electronic certificate of foreign capital registration to be obtained by the custodian for our common shares underlying the ADSs in Brazil, which permits the custodian to convert dividends and other distributions with respect to the common shares into non-Brazilian currency and remit the proceeds abroad. If you surrender your ADSs and withdraw common shares, you will be entitled to continue to rely on the custodian’s electronic certificate of foreign capital registration for only five business days from the date of withdrawal. Thereafter, upon the disposition of or distributions relating to the common shares, you will not be able to remit abroad non-Brazilian currency unless you obtain your own electronic certificate of foreign capital registration or you qualify under Brazilian foreign investment regulations that entitle some foreign investors to buy and sell shares on Brazilian stock exchanges without obtaining separate electronic certificates of foreign capital registration. If you do not qualify under the foreign investment regulations you will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment of dividends and distributions on, and the proceeds from any sale of, the common shares. If you attempt to obtain your own electronic certificate of foreign capital registration, you may incur expenses or suffer delays in the application process, which could delay your ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to our common shares or the return of your capital in a timely manner. The depositary’s electronic certificate of foreign capital registration may also be adversely affected by future legislative changes. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Brazil are different from those in the United States, and may be more difficult to enforce. 14 Table of Contents Under Brazilian law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those in the United States. In particular, the legal framework with respect to shareholder disputes is less developed under Brazilian law than U.S. law and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits, such as shareholder derivative suits. As a result, in practice it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholders than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. Changes in Brazilian tax laws may have an adverse impact on the taxes applicable to a disposition of the ADSs or our common shares. According to Law No. 10,833, enacted on December 29, 2003, the capital gains derived from the disposition of assets located in Brazil by a non-resident to either a Brazilian resident or a non-resident is subject to taxation in Brazil, regardless of whether the disposition occurs outside or within Brazil. If the disposition of assets is interpreted to include a disposition of the ADSs or our common shares, this tax law could result in the imposition of withholding income tax on a disposition in Brazil of the ADSs by a non-resident of Brazil to another non-resident of Brazil. Because no judicial guidance as to the application of Law No. 10,833 yet exists, we are unable to predict whether an interpretation applying withholding income tax to dispositions of the ADSs or our common shares between non-residents could ultimately prevail in the courts of Brazil. See “Taxation—Brazilian Tax Considerations.” Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to our common shares. We may not be able to offer our common shares to U.S. holders of ADSs pursuant to preemptive rights granted to holders of our common shares in connection with any future issuance of our common shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act, is effective with respect to such common shares and preemptive rights, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement relating to preemptive rights with respect to our common shares, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. If such a registration statement is not filed and an exemption from registration does not exist, The Bank of New York, as depositary, will attempt to sell the preemptive rights, and you will be entitled to receive the net proceeds of such sale. However, these preemptive rights will expire if the depositary does not sell them, and U.S. holders of ADSs will not realize any value from the granting of such preemptive rights. 