RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Operations and the Brazilian Power Industry We are subject to comprehensive regulation of our business, which fundamentally affects our financial performance. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by various Brazilian regulatory authorities, particularly the National Electric Energy Agency, Agência Nacional de Energia Elétrica (“ANEEL”). ANEEL regulates and oversees various aspects of our business and establishes our tariffs. If we are obliged by ANEEL to make additional and unexpected capital investments and are not allowed to adjust our tariffs accordingly, or if ANEEL modifies the regulations related to such adjustment, we may be adversely affected. In addition, both the implementation of our strategy for growth and our ordinary business may be adversely affected by governmental actions such as changes to current legislation, the termination of federal and state concession programs, creation of more rigid criteria for qualification in public energy auctions, or a delay in the revision and implementation of new annual tariffs. If regulatory changes require us to conduct our business in a manner substantially different from our current operations, our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. The regulatory framework under which we operate is subject to legal challenge. The Brazilian government implemented fundamental changes in the regulation of the power industry under 2004 legislation known as the Lei do Novo Modelo do Setor Elétrico, or New Industry Model Law. Challenges to the constitutionality of the New Industry Model Law are still pending before the Brazilian Supreme Court. If all or part of the New Industry Model Law were held to be unconstitutional, there would be uncertain consequences for the validity of existing regulation and the further development of the regulatory framework. The outcome of the legal proceedings is difficult to predict, but it could have an adverse impact on the entire energy sector, including our business and results of operations. We are uncertain as to the renewal of our concessions. We carry out our generation and distribution activities pursuant to concession agreements entered into with the Brazilian Federal Government. Our concessions range in duration from 16 to 35 years, with the first expiration date in 2015. Five of our distribution subsidiaries, as well as three Small Hydroelectric Power Plants and six Micro Hydroelectric Power Plants that generate energy exclusively for these distribution subsidiaries, have concessions that expire in July 2015 (originally) and may be renewed for an additional 20 years upon our request but at the discretion of the Federal Government. In 2012, these five distribution subsidiaries represented 5.6% of net operating revenues of our distribution companies and 5.6% of the energy distributed by these companies. The Brazilian constitution requires that all concessions relating to public services be awarded through a bidding process. Under laws and regulations specific to the electric sector, the Federal Government may renew existing concessions for additional periods of up to 30 years without a bidding process, provided that the concessionaire has met minimum performance standards and that the proposal is otherwise acceptable to the Federal Government. The Federal Government has considerable discretion under the Concessions Law and the concession contracts with respect to renewal of concessions. Law No. 12,783, of January 11, 2013, defined the conditions for the renewal of generation, transmission and distribution concessions that have been obtained under the conditions specified in articles 17, 19 or 22 of Law No. 9,074 of July, 7, 1995. These concessions may be extended once at the discretion of the Federal Government, for a period of up to 30 years in order to ensure the continuity and efficiency of the services rendered and low tariffs. Law No. 12,783/13 provided that renewals that would take place in 2015, 2016 or 2017 could be anticipated to 2012. On October 10, 2012, we applied for the renewal of the concession of our distribution subsidiaries CPFL Santa Cruz, CPFL Jaguari, CPFL Mococa, CPFL Leste Paulista and CPFL Sul Paulista. These concessions were granted in 1999 for a 16-year period. The response from the Federal Governement is still pending. We cannot assure that the renewal will be granted, if it will be antecipated or the conditions under which it will be granted. If these concessions are not renewed or renewed subject to conditions that are unfavorable to us, our revenues could be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents The tariffs that we charge for sales of electricity to captive consumers are determined by ANEEL pursuant to concession agreements with the Brazilian government, so our operating revenues could be adversely affected if ANEEL makes decisions relating to our tariffs that are not favorable to us. ANEEL has substantial discretion to establish the tariff rates our distribution companies charge our consumers. Our tariffs are determined pursuant to concession agreements with the Brazilian Federal Government, and in accordance with ANEEL’s regulations and decisions. Our concession agreements and the Brazilian law establish a mechanism that permits three types of tariff adjustments: (i) the annual adjustment (“reajuste tarifário anual”), (ii) the periodic revision (“revisão tarifária periódica”) and (iii) the extraordinary revision (“revisão tarifária extraordinária”). We are entitled to apply each year for the annual adjustment, which is designed to offset some effects of inflation on tariffs and pass through to consumers certain changes in our cost structure that are beyond our control, such as the cost of electricity we purchase from certain sources and certain regulatory charges, including charges for the use of transmission and distribution facilities. In addition, ANEEL carries out a periodic revision every four or five years that is aimed at identifying variations in our costs as well as setting a factor based on our operational efficiency that will be applied against the index of our ongoing annual tariff adjustments, the objective of which is to share any related gains with our consumers. We are also subject to extraordinary revision of our tariffs that may affect (negatively or positively) our results of operations or financial position. We cannot be sure if ANEEL will establish tariffs at rates that are favorable to us, due to changes in the methods in calculating the periodic revision adjustments. In addition, to the extent that any of these adjustments are not granted by ANEEL in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. On November 22, 2011, ANEEL defined the methodology applicable to the third periodic revision cycle (2011 to 2014) through Resolution No. 457/2011. For the third cycle, ANEEL has designated a new method of recognizing which costs we may pass through to our consumers. In addition, ANEEL approved the new methodology for calculating the TUSD and other electricity tariffs, under which Distributors assume all market risk resulting from tariff indicators. As compared to the previous tariff cycle, this new methodology negatively impacts our financial condition and results of operations. We could be penalized by ANEEL for failing to comply with the terms of our concession agreements, which could result in fines, other penalties and, depending on the gravity of the non‑compliance, in our concessions being terminated. ANEEL may impose penalties on us in the event that we fail to comply with any provision of our concession agreements. Depending on the gravity of the non‑compliance, these penalties could include the following: · warning notices; · fines per breach of up to 2.0% of the revenues from the relevant concession in the year ended immediately prior to the date of the relevant breach; · injunctions related to the construction of new facilities and equipment; · restrictions on the operation of existing facilities and equipment; · intervention by ANEEL in the management of the concessionaire; and · termination of the concession. 8 Table of Contents In addition, the Brazilian government has the power to terminate any of our concessions by means of expropriation for reasons related to the public interest. We are currently in compliance with all of the material terms of our concession agreements. However, we cannot assure that we will not be penalized by ANEEL for breaching our concession agreements or that our concessions will not be terminated in the future. The compensation to which we are entitled upon expiration or early termination of our concessions may not be sufficient for us to realize the full value of certain assets. In addition, if any of our concession agreements is terminated for reasons attributable to us, the effective amount of compensation by the granting authorities could be materially reduced through the imposition of fines or other penalties. Accordingly, the imposition of fines or penalties on us or the termination of any of our concessions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to fully pass through the costs of our electricity purchases and, to meet demand, we could be forced to enter into short‑term agreements to purchase electricity at prices substantially higher than under our long‑term purchase agreements. Under the New Industry Model Law, an electricity Distributor must contract in advance, through public bids, for 100% of its forecasted electricity needs for its distribution concession areas. Over- or under-forecasting demand can have adverse consequences. If our forecasted demand is incorrect and we purchase less or more electricity than we need, we may be prevented from fully passing through the costs of our electricity purchases and we may also be forced to enter into short‑term agreements to purchase electricity at prices substantially higher than under our long‑term purchase agreements. For instance, the New Industry Model Law provides, among other restrictions, that if our forecasts fall significantly short of actual electricity demand, we may be forced to make up the shortfall with shorter term electricity purchase agreements. If our acquisitions of electricity in the public auctions are above the Annual Reference Value (Valor Anual de Referência), as defined in “Item 4. Information on the Company—The New Industry Model Law—The Annual Reference Value,” established by the Brazilian government, we may not be able to fully pass through the costs of our electricity purchases. Our forecasted electricity demand may prove inaccurate, including as a result of consumers moving between the different markets (regulated and free). If there are significant variations between our electricity needs and the volume of our electricity purchases, our results of operations may be adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—The Brazilian Power Industry—The New Industry Model Law.” We generate a significant portion of our operating revenues from consumers that qualify as Free Consumers, which are allowed to seek alternative electricity suppliers. We may face other types of competition that could adversely affect our market share and revenues. Within our concession areas, other electricity suppliers are permitted to compete with us in offering electricity to certain consumers that qualify as Free Consumers, to whom our distribution subsidiaries may supply electricity only at regulated tariffs. These consumers qualified as Free Consumers may elect to opt out of our regulated distribution system upon the expiration of their contracts with us, by providing six months’ prior notice, or by providing a year’s prior notice if their contract has no fixed termination date. At December 31, 2012, we supplied energy to 47 consumers qualified as Free Consumers, which accounted for approximately 1.7% of our net operating revenues and approximately 2.4% of the total volume of electricity sold by our Distributors during 2012. In addition, other consumers meeting certain criteria may become Free Consumers if they move to energy from renewable energy sources, such as Small Hydroelectric Power Plants or biomass. At December 31, 2012 we had a total of 1,723 potentially Free Consumers which accounted for approximately 12.2% of our net operating revenues and approximately 14.6% of the total volume of electricity sold by our distribution companies during 2012. Additionally, it is possible that our large industrial clients could be authorized by ANEEL to generate electric energy for own consumption or sale to other parties, in which case they may obtain an authorization or concession for the generation of electric power in a given area, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 9 Table of Contents Our operating results depend on prevailing hydrological conditions. Poor hydrological conditions may require a higher dispatch of thermoelectric generation in Brazilian electric system, which may affect our results of operations. We are dependent on the prevailing hydrological conditions in the geographic region in which we operate. In 2012, according to data from the ONS, approximately 86% of Brazil’s electricity supply came from Hydroelectric Facilities. Our region is subject to unpredictable hydrological conditions, with non‑cyclical deviations from average rainfall. In order to compensate for poor hydrological conditions and to maintain the reservoirs security levels and electricity supply level, the ONS may dispatch Thermoeletric Power Plants, including ours. The replacement of hydroelectricity generation with thermoelectric generation may lead to adverse results in our generation segment as hydro power plants, including ours, may receive in the Energy Reallocation Mechanism, Mecanismo de Realocação de Energia (“MRE”) an amount of energy lower than their assured energy. This deficit of energy will represent an expense valued at the electricity spot price, exposing the hydrogenerator to spot price risk. For the distribution segment, the additional costs of thermoelectric generation will be passed through tariffs in the following annual adjustments or periodical review, as permitted by the regulation. However, there may be a mismatch of costs and revenues for the distribution company, affecting its cash flow at the short term, since distribution companies have to pay the additional thermoelectric cost instantly and this cost will only integrate rates after the following annual adjustments or periodical review. The impact of an electricity shortage and related electricity rationing, as in 2001 and 2002, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. During the low rainfall period of 2000 and 2001, the Brazilian government instituted the Rationing Program, a program to reduce electricity consumption that was in effect from June 1, 2001 to February 28, 2002. The Rationing Program established limits for energy consumption for industrial, commercial and residential consumers, which ranged from a 15.0% to a 25.0% reduction in energy consumption. If Brazil experiences another electricity shortage (a condition which might happen and we are not able to control or anticipate), the Brazilian government may implement similar or other policies in the future to address the shortage that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A recurrence of poor hydrological conditions that result in a low supply of electricity to the Brazilian market could cause, among other things, the implementation of broad electricity conservation programs, including mandated reductions in electricity consumption. We cannot assure you that periods of severe or sustained below-average rainfall will not adversely affect our financial results. Construction, expansion and operation of our electricity generation and distribution facilities and equipment involve significant risks that could lead to lost revenues or increased expenses. The construction, expansion and operation of facilities and equipment for the generation and distribution of electricity involves many risks, including: · the inability to obtain required governmental permits and approvals; · the unavailability of equipment; · supply interruptions; · work stoppages; · labor unrest; · social unrest; · weather and hydrological interferences; · unforeseen engineering and environmental problems; 10 Table of Contents · increases in electricity losses, including technical and commercial losses; · construction and operational delays, or unanticipated cost overruns; · the inability to win electricity auctions promoted by ANEEL; and · unavailability of adequate funding. If we experience these or other problems, we may not be able to generate or distribute electricity in amounts consistent with our projections, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental and health regulations that may become more stringent in the future and may result in increased liabilities and increased capital expenditures. Our distribution and generation activities are subject to comprehensive federal and state legislation as well as supervision by Brazilian governmental agencies that are responsible for the implementation of environmental and health laws and policies. These agencies could take enforcement action against us for our failure to comply with their regulations. These actions could include, among other things, the imposition of fines and revocation of licenses. It is possible that enhanced environmental and health regulations will force us to allocate capital expenditures to compliance, and consequently, divert funds from planned investments. Such a diversion could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to complete our proposed capital expenditure program in a timely manner, the operation and development of our business may be adversely affected. We plan to invest approximately R$2,062 million in our generation activities from conventional and renewable sources, and R$5,981 million in our distribution activities during the period from 2013 through 2017. Our ability to carry out this capital expenditure program depends on a variety of factors, including our ability to charge adequate tariffs for our services, our access to domestic and international capital markets and a variety of operating, regulatory and other contingencies. We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources to complete our proposed capital expenditure program, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the operation and development of our business. We are strictly liable for any damages resulting from inadequate provision of electricity services, and our contracted insurance policies may not fully cover such damages. Under Brazilian law, we are strictly liable for direct and indirect damages resulting from the inadequate provision of electricity distribution services. In addition, our distribution facilities may, together with our generation utilities, be held liable for damages caused to others as a result of interruptions or disturbances arising from the generation, transmission or distribution systems, whenever these interruptions or disturbances are not attributed to an identifiable member of the ONS. We cannot assure you that our contracted insurance policies will fully cover damages resulting from inadequate rendering of electricity services, which may have an adverse effect on us. We may not be able to create the expected benefits and return on investments from the energy generation businesses we recently entered into. We have entered into a number of energy generation businesses (wind, thermoelectric and biomass energy) with substantial capital investments. We have few operating history and track record in these industries and may not be able to foster the synergies with our traditional businesses. In addition: · In the biomass business, we may suffer from a lack of sugar cane (a necessary input for the generation of this type of energy) in the market. In addition, we depend to a certain extent on the performance of our partners in these projects in the construction and operation of the plants; · Among the significant uncertainties and risks with respect to our wind farms under construction, we have financial risk associated with the difference between the energy we generate and the energy contracted through the reserve energy contract (Contrato de Energia de Reserva – CER), in which we bear the risk of divergences arising from: (a) wind intensity and duration different from that contemplated in the study phase of the project; (b) delay in commencement of operations of the wind farms under construction; and (c) unavailability of wind turbines at levels above the performance benchmarks; 11 Table of Contents If these generation plants are not able to (i) generate the energy contracted by our clients, or (ii) generate the energy necessary to supply any clients in the Free Market, and (iii), the energy provided to us is insufficient to supply the contracted demand, we may be obliged to buy the shortfall in the spot market, in which the price per MWh is usually more volatile and may be higher than our price, resulting in an adverse effect on us. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—The Brazilian Power Industry—The New Industry Model Law.” Our growth, operating results and financial condition may be negatively affected by one or more of the above factors. We are controlled by a few shareholders acting together, and their interests could conflict with yours. As of December 31, 2012, VBC Energia S.A./ESC Energia S.A./Camargo Corrêa S.A., PREVI/BB Carteira Livre I FIA and Energia São Paulo FIA/Bonaire Participações S.A. owned 25.64%, 31.02% and 12.62%, respectively, of our outstanding common shares. These entities are parties to a shareholders’ agreement, pursuant to which they share the power to control us. Our controlling shareholders may take actions that could be contrary to your interests, and our controlling shareholders will be able to prevent other shareholders, including you, from blocking these actions. In particular, our controlling shareholders control the outcome of decisions at shareholders’ meetings, and they can elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors. Our controlling shareholders can direct our actions in areas such as business strategy, financing, distributions, acquisitions and dispositions of assets or businesses. Their decisions on these matters may be contrary to the expectations or preferences of our noncontrolling shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Shareholders’ Agreement.” We are exposed to increases in prevailing market interest rates, as well as foreign exchange rate risk. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 85.8% of our total indebtedness was denominated in reais and indexed to Brazilian money-market rates or inflation rates, or bore interest at floating rates. The remaining 14.2% of our total indebtedness was denominated in U.S. dollars and substantially subject to currency swaps that converted these obligations into reais. In addition, the costs of electricity purchased from the Itaipu power plant (“Itaipu”) are indexed to the U.S. dollar exchange variation. Our tariffs are adjusted annually in order to contemplate the losses or gains’ effects from such electricity acquisition. Accordingly, if these indexation rates rise or the U.S. dollar/real exchange rates appreciate, our financing expenses will increase. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and make payments on our debt. As of December 31, 2012, we had a debt of R$17,126 million. Our indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay when due the principal, interest or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. In addition, we may incur additional debt from time to time to finance strategic acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions applicable under our existing indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage would increase. We may acquire other companies in the electricity business, as we have in the past, and these acquisitions could increase our leverage or adversely affect our consolidated performance. We regularly analyze opportunities to acquire other companies engaged in activities along the entire electricity generation, transmission and distribution chain. If we do acquire other electricity companies, it could increase our leverage or reduce our profitability. Furthermore, we may not be able to integrate the acquired company’s activities and achieve the economies of scale and expected efficiency gains that often drive such acquisitions, and failure to do so could harm our financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. This involvement, as well as Brazilian political and economic conditions, could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our ADSs and our common shares. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policy and regulations. The Brazilian government’s actions to control inflation and other policies and regulations have often involved, among other measures, increases in interest rates, changes in tax policies, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in policy or regulations at the federal, state or municipal levels involving or affecting factors such as: · interest rates; · monetary policy; · currency fluctuations; · inflation; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; · tax policies; · changes in labor laws; · regulatory environment of our sector; · exchange rates and exchange controls and restrictions on remittances abroad, such as those that were briefly imposed in 1989 and early 1990; and · other political, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. We cannot assure you that the Brazilian government will continue with the current economic policies, or that any changes implemented by the Brazilian government will not, directly or indirectly, affect our business and results of operations. Exchange rate instability may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. The Brazilian currency has during the last decades experienced frequent and substantial variations in relation to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies. In the context of the crisis in the global financial markets after mid-2008, the real depreciated against the U.S. dollar, reaching R$2.337 per US$1.00 at year-end 2008. During 2009, the real appreciated 25.5% against the U.S. dollar in the context of the economic recovery, reaching R$1.741 per US$1.00 at year-end 2009. On December 31, 2011 and 2012, the exchange rate of the real against the U.S. dollar was R$1.876 and R$2.044 per US$1.00, respectively. On April 12, 2013, the exchange rate was R$1.976 per US$1.00. We cannot assure that the real will not depreciate against the U.S. dollar in the future. Depreciation of the real increases the cost of servicing our foreign currency denominated debt and the cost of purchasing electricity from the Itaipu power plant, a Hydroelectric Facility that is one of our major suppliers and that adjusts electricity prices based in part on its U.S. dollar costs. Depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar could create inflationary pressures in Brazil and cause increases in interest rates, which could negatively affect the growth of the Brazilian economy as a whole and harm our financial condition and results of operations, curtail access to foreign financial markets and may prompt government intervention, including recessionary governmental policies. Depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar can also lead to decreased consumer spending, deflationary pressures and reduced growth in the economy as a whole. On the other hand, appreciation of the real relative to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies could lead to a deterioration of the Brazilian foreign exchange current account, as well as dampen export-driven growth. Depending on the circumstances, either depreciation or appreciation of the real could materially and adversely affect the growth of the Brazilian economy and our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Depreciation of the real also reduces the U.S. dollar value of distributions and dividends on the ADSs and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our common shares and, as a result, the ADSs. Government efforts to combat inflation may hinder the growth of the Brazilian economy and could harm our business. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation and has therefore followed monetary policies that have resulted in one of the highest real interest rates in the world. Between 2006 and 2012, the base interest rate in Brazil (“SELIC”) varied between 17.25% p.a. and 7.25% p.a. Inflation and the Brazilian government’s measures to fight it, principally through the Central Bank, have had and may in future have significant effects on the Brazilian economy and our business. Tight monetary policies with high interest rates may restrict Brazil’s growth and the availability of credit. Conversely, more lenient government and Central Bank policies and interest rate decreases may trigger increases in inflation, and, consequently, volatility in growth and the need for sudden and significant interest rate increases, which could negatively affect our business. In addition, if Brazil again experiences high inflation, we may not be able to adjust the rates we charge our consumers to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structure. Developments and the perception of risk in other countries, including the United States and emerging market countries, may adversely affect the market price of Brazilian securities, including our ADSs and our common shares. The market value of securities of Brazilian issuers is affected by economic and market conditions in other countries, including the United States, the European Union and emerging market countries. The 2008 global financial crisis has generated significant consequences, such as stock and credit market volatility, unavailability of credit, higher interest rates, a general economic slowdown, volatile exchange rates and inflationary pressure. Even though the world economy and the financial and capital markets had been recovering, the conditions of the global markets again deteriorated in by the end of 2011. European countries encountered serious fiscal problems, including high debt levels that impair growth and increase the risk of sovereign default. In 2012, there were threats of some countries leaving the block, but this risk was contained by the EU and European Central Bank. At the same time, the United States faced significant political conflicts due to the lack of a decision regarding the continuation of incentives of social programs; the suspension of these incentives would result in a strong economic slowdown. In this context of uncertainty, the Chinese economy also faced a slowdown in 2012, demanding the Chinese government to intervene on public investment levels, aiming to avoid an abrupt hard landing.. Although economic conditions in those countries may differ significantly from economic conditions in Brazil, investor reactions to developments in other countries may have an adverse effect on the market value of securities of Brazilian issuers. Crises in the United States, the European Union or emerging market countries may diminish investor interest in securities of Brazilian issuers, including ours. This could adversely affect the trading price of the ADSs or our common shares, and could also make it more difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms or at all. Risks Relating to the ADSs and Our Common Shares Holders of our ADSs may encounter difficulties in the exercise of voting rights. Holders of our common shares are entitled to vote on shareholder matters. You may encounter difficulties in the exercise of some of your rights as a shareholder if you hold our ADSs rather than the underlying common shares. For example, you are not entitled to attend a shareholders’ meeting, and you can only vote by giving timely instructions to the depositary in advance of the meeting. 14 Table of Contents If you surrender your ADSs and withdraw common shares, you risk losing the ability to remit foreign currency abroad and certain Brazilian tax advantages. As an ADS holder, you benefit from the electronic certificate of foreign capital registration obtained by the custodian for our common shares underlying the ADSs in Brazil, which permits the custodian to convert dividends and other distributions with respect to the common shares into non‑Brazilian currency and remit the proceeds abroad. If you surrender your ADSs and withdraw common shares, you will be entitled to continue to rely on the custodian’s electronic certificate of foreign capital registration for only five business days from the date of withdrawal. Thereafter, upon the disposition of or distributions relating to the common shares, you will not be able to remit abroad non‑Brazilian currency unless you obtain your own electronic certificate of foreign capital registration or you qualify under Brazilian foreign investment regulations that entitle some foreign investors to buy and sell shares on Brazilian stock exchanges without obtaining separate electronic certificates of foreign capital registration. If you do not qualify under the foreign investment regulations you will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment of dividends and distributions on, and the proceeds from any sale of, our common shares. If you attempt to obtain your own electronic certificate of foreign capital registration, you may incur expenses or suffer delays in the application process, which could delay your ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to our common shares or the return of your capital in a timely manner. The depositary’s electronic certificate of foreign capital registration may also be adversely affected by future legislative changes. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to our common shares. We may not be able to offer our common shares to U.S. holders of ADSs pursuant to preemptive rights granted to holders of our common shares in connection with any future issuance of our common shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such common shares and preemptive rights, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement relating to preemptive rights with respect to our common shares, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. If such a registration statement is not filed and an exemption from registration does not exist, Deutsche Bank, as depositary, will attempt to sell the preemptive rights, and you will be entitled to receive the proceeds of such sale. However, these preemptive rights will expire if the depositary does not sell them, and U.S. holders of ADSs will not realize any value from the granting of such preemptive rights. The relative volatility and illiquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may substantially limit your ability to sell the common shares underlying the ADSs at the price and time you desire. Investing in securities that trade in emerging markets, such as Brazil, often involves greater risk than investing in securities of issuers in the United States, and such investments are generally considered to be more speculative in nature. The Brazilian securities market is substantially smaller, less liquid, more concentrated and can be more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. Accordingly, although you are entitled to withdraw the common shares underlying the ADSs from the depositary at any time, your ability to sell the common shares underlying the ADSs at a price and time at which you wish to do so may be substantially limited. There is also significantly greater concentration in the Brazilian securities market than in major securities markets in the United States. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented 51.8% of the aggregate market capitalization of the BM&FBOVESPA S.A. - Bolsa de Valores, Mercadorias & Futuros (“BM&FBOVESPA”), as of December 31, 2012. The top ten stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for 43.0%, 47.2% and 50.0% of all shares traded on the BM&FBOVESPA in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 