RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Operations and the Brazilian Power Industry The current credit crisis and unfavorable general economic and market conditions may negatively affect our liquidity, customers, business, and results of operations. The global financial crisis may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition. The effect of this crisis on our customers and on us cannot be predicted. The current economic situation also could lead to reduced demand or lower prices for energy, or both, which could have a negative effect on our revenues. Economic factors such as unemployment, inflation levels and the availability of credit could also have a material adverse effect on demand for energy and therefore on our financial condition and operating results. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would need financing, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, the cost of debt financing and the proceeds of equity financing may be materially adversely affected by these market conditions. We are subject to comprehensive regulation of our business, which fundamentally affects our financial performance. Our business is subject to extensive regulation by various Brazilian regulatory authorities, particularly the National Electric Energy Agency, Agência Nacional de Energia Elétrica (“ANEEL”). ANEEL regulates and oversees various aspects of our business and establishes our tariffs. If we are obliged by ANEEL to make additional and unexpected capital investments and are not allowed to adjust our tariffs accordingly, or if ANEEL modifies the regulations related to such adjustment, we may be adversely affected. In addition, the implementation of our strategy for growth, as well as the ordinary carrying out of our business may be adversely affected by governmental actions such as changes to current legislation, the termination of federal and state concession programs, creation of more rigid criteria for qualification in future public energy auctions, or a delay in the revision and implementation of new annual tariffs. If we are required to conduct our business in a manner substantially different from our current operations as a result of regulatory changes, our operations and financial results may be adversely affected. The regulatory framework under which we operate is subject to legal challenge. The Brazilian government implemented fundamental changes in regulation of the power industry under 2004 legislation known as the Lei do Novo Modelo do Setor Elétrico, or New Industry Model Law. Challenges to the constitutionality of the New Industry Model Law are still pending before the Brazilian Supreme Court. If all or part of the New Industry Model Law were held to be unconstitutional, it will have uncertain consequences for the validity of existing regulation and the further development of the regulatory framework. The outcome of the legal proceedings is difficult to predict, but they could have an adverse impact on the entire energy sector, including our business and results of operations. We are uncertain as to the renewal of our concessions. We carry out our generation and distribution activities pursuant to concession agreements entered into with the Brazilian Federal Government. Our concessions range in duration from 16 to 35 years, with the first expiration date in 2015. Five of our distribution subsidiaries have concessions that expire in July 2015, with options to renew for an additional 20 years. The Brazilian constitution requires that all concessions relating to public services be awarded through a bidding process. Under laws and regulations specific to the electric sector, the Federal Government may renew existing concessions for additional periods of up to 30 years without a bidding process, provided that the concessionaire has met minimum performance standards and that the proposal is otherwise acceptable to the Federal Government. The Federal Government has considerable discretion under the Concessions Law and the concession contracts with respect to renewal of concessions, and there is no extensive history of administrative practice concerning renewals. As a result, we cannot assure you that our concessions will be renewed at all, or that they will be renewed on the same terms. 10 Table of Contents The tariffs that we charge for sales of electricity to captive consumers are determined by ANEEL pursuant to concession agreements with the Brazilian government, and our operating revenues could be adversely affected if ANEEL makes decisions relating to our tariffs that are not favorable to us. ANEEL has substantial discretion to establish the tariff rates our distribution companies charge our consumers. Our tariffs are determined pursuant to concession agreements entered into with the Brazilian Federal Government, and in accordance with ANEEL’s regulations and decisions. Our concession agreements and the Brazilian law establish a price cap mechanism that permits three types of tariff adjustments: (i) the annual adjustment (reajuste anual), (ii) the periodic revision (revisão periódica) and (iii) the extraordinary revision (revisão extraordinária). We are entitled to apply each year for the annual adjustment, which is designed to offset some effects of inflation on tariffs and pass through to consumers certain changes in our cost structure that are beyond our control, such as the cost of electricity we purchase from certain sources and certain regulatory charges, including charges for the use of transmission and distribution facilities. In addition, ANEEL carries out a periodic revision every four or five years that is aimed at identifying variations in our costs as well as setting a factor based on our operational efficiency that will be applied against the index of our ongoing annual tariff adjustments, the objective of which is to share any related gains with our consumers. We are also entitled to request an extraordinary revision of our tariffs if unpredictable costs significantly alter our cost structure. We cannot be sure if ANEEL will establish tariffs at rates that are favorable to us, especially in the periodic revision process. In addition, to the extent that any of these adjustments are not granted by ANEEL in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We could be penalized by ANEEL for failing to comply with the terms of our concession agreements, which could result in fines, other penalties and, depending on the gravity of the non-compliance, in our concessions being terminated. ANEEL may impose penalties on us in the event that we fail to comply with any provision of our concession agreements. Depending on the gravity of the non-compliance, these penalties could include the following: warning notices; fines per breach of up to 2.0% of the concessionaire’s revenues in the year ended immediately prior to the date of the relevant breach; injunctions related to the construction of new facilities and equipment; restrictions on the operation of existing facilities and equipment; intervention by ANEEL in the management of the concessionaire; and termination of the concession. In addition, the Brazilian government has the power to terminate any of our concessions by means of expropriation for reasons related to the public interest. 11 Table of Contents We are currently in compliance with all of the material terms of our concession agreements. However, we cannot assure you that we will not be penalized by ANEEL for breaching our concession agreements or that our concessions will not be terminated in the future. The compensation to which we are entitled upon termination of our concessions may not be sufficient for us to realize the full value of certain assets. If any of our concession agreements is terminated for reasons attributable to us, the effective amount of compensation by the granting authorities could be materially reduced through the imposition of fines or other penalties. Accordingly, the imposition of fines or penalties on us or the termination of any of our concessions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to fully pass through the costs of our electricity purchases and, to meet demand, we could be forced to enter into short-term agreements to purchase electricity at prices substantially higher than under our long-term purchase agreements. Under the New Industry Model Law, an electricity distributor must contract in advance, through public bids, for 100% of its forecasted electricity needs for its distribution concession areas. If our forecasted demand is incorrect and we purchase less or more electricity than we need, we may be prevented from fully passing through the costs of our electricity purchases. For instance, the New Industry Model Law provides, among other restrictions, that if our forecasts fall significantly short of actual electricity demand, we may be forced to make up the shortfall with shorter term electricity purchase agreements. If our acquisitions of electricity in the public auctions are above the Annual Reference Value (Valor Anual de Referência) established by the Brazilian government, we may not be able to fully pass through the costs of our electricity purchases. Our forecasted electricity demand may prove inaccurate, including as a result of consumers moving between the different markets (regulated and free). If there are significant variations between our electricity needs and the volume of our electricity purchases, our results of operations may be adversely affected. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—The Brazilian Power Industry—The New Industry Model Law.” Our reported financial condition and results could be adversely affected by changes in Brazilian Accounting Principles. Brazilian Accounting Principles have been undergoing rapid change pursuant to legislation adopted late in 2007, requiring among other things that Brazilian accounting standard-setters move toward convergence with IFRS, which will be mandatory by 2010. Changes that took effect in 2008 have been given effect for the years 2007 and 2008 presented in our audited consolidated financial statements and are described in Note 2.1 to the audited consolidated financial statements. Many new accounting standards have been adopted and are currently being implemented. Others are expected in the near future. We cannot yet predict the effects on our financial statements that will result when these changes take effect. These effects could include reducing our reported revenues, operating income or net income, or adversely affecting our balance sheet. Such changes could adversely affect our compliance with financial covenants under our financing facilities. They could also reduce the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, or our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Two aspects of IFRS that could have a material impact on us, if they are adopted in Brazil, concern the recognition of regulatory assets and accounting for our concessions, such as a potential reclassification of property, plants and equipment as intangible assets, financial assets, or both. Under Brazilian Accounting Principles and U.S. GAAP, we recognize as assets and liabilities certain amounts that we are legally entitled to collect, or required to pay, in the future under the regulations applicable to our distribution subsidiaries. Accounting for regulatory assets and liabilities in this way has a very material effect on our reported financial condition and results of operations. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects.” In addition, the implementation of IFRS could require us to reclassify assets related to our concessions that we currently classify as property, plant and equipment as intangible assets, financial assets, or both. Currently, there are authoritative interpretations of IFRS that we believe might limit our ability to recognize these assets and liabilities, as well as the manner in which we account for our concessions. We and other similarly situated Brazilian companies are discussing these points with the Brazilian standard-setters and regulators, but we cannot predict the outcome of those discussions or the ultimate manner in which IFRS or Brazilian standards based on IFRS will apply to us. 12 Table of Contents ANEEL may limit distributions that our regulated subsidiaries may make to us. The amounts that our regulated subsidiaries may distribute to us in the form of dividends in any given fiscal year depend on such subsidiaries making a profit, as calculated in accordance with the Brazilian Corporation Law. Despite the significant cash flow generated by our regulated subsidiaries, their results are affected by depreciation and by the amortization of intangible assets arising from the acquisition of RGE and Semesa. As a result, this limitation may eventually prevent some portion of the cash generated by our regulated subsidiaries from being distributed to us as dividends, and we would require approval by ANEEL to conduct a capital reduction. We generate a significant portion of our operating revenues from consumers that qualify as potentially Free Consumers, and that are allowed to seek alternative electricity suppliers. We may face other types of competition that could adversely affect our market share and revenues. Within our concession areas, other electricity suppliers are permitted to compete with us in offering electricity to certain consumers that qualify as potentially Free Consumers, to whom our distribution subsidiaries may supply electricity only at regulated tariffs. Such potentially Free Consumers may elect to opt out of our regulated distribution system upon the expiration of their contracts with us, by providing a six months prior notice, or by providing an one year prior notice if their contract with us is valid for an undetermined period of time. At December 31, 2008, we supplied energy to 157 potentially Free Consumers, which accounted for approximately 7.3% of our net operating revenues and approximately 8.4% of the total volume of electricity sold by our distributors during 2008. In addition, other consumers meeting certain criteria may become Free Consumers if they move to energy from renewable energy sources, such as small hydroelectric power plants or biomass. At December 31, 2008 we had a total of 1,501 of these consumers that accounted for approximately 16% of our net operating revenues and approximately 16.7% of the total volume of electricity sold by our distribution subsidiaries during 2008. A decision by our potentially Free Consumers to become Free Consumers and purchase electricity from electricity suppliers serving Free Consumers located in our concession areas could adversely affect our market share and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that our large industrial clients could be authorized by ANEEL to generate electric energy for self consumption or sale to other parties, in which case they may obtain an authorization or concession for the generation of electric power in a given area, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operating results depend on prevailing hydrological conditions. The impact of an electricity shortage and related electricity rationing, as in 2001 and 2002, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are dependent on the prevailing hydrological conditions in the geographic region in which we operate. In 2008, according to data from the National Electrical System Operator, Operador Nacional do Sistema Elétrico (“ONS”), more than 89% of Brazil’s electricity supply came from hydroelectric generation facilities. Our region is subject to unpredictable hydrological conditions, with non-cyclical deviations from average rainfall. The most recent period of low rainfall was in the years prior to 2001, when the Brazilian government instituted the Rationing Program, a program to reduce electricity consumption that was in effect from June 1, 2001 to February 28, 2002. The Rationing Program established limits for energy consumption for industrial, commercial and residential consumers, which ranged from a 15% to a 25% reduction in energy consumption, and lasted from June 2001 until February 2002. If Brazil experiences another electricity shortage, the Brazilian government may implement similar or other policies in the future to address the shortage that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A recurrence of poor hydrological conditions that result in a low supply of electricity to the Brazilian market could cause, among other things, the implementation of broad electricity conservation programs, including mandated reductions in electricity consumption. We cannot assure you that periods of severe or sustained below-average rainfall will not adversely affect our future financial results. Construction, expansion and operation of our electricity generation and distribution facilities and equipment involve significant risks that could lead to lost revenues or increased expenses. The construction, expansion and operation of facilities and equipment for the generation and distribution of electricity involves many risks, including: 13 Table of Contents the inability to obtain required governmental permits and approvals; the unavailability of equipment; supply interruptions; work stoppages; labor unrest; social unrest; weather and hydrological interferences; unforeseen engineering and environmental problems; increases in electricity losses, including technical and commercial losses; construction and operational delays, or unanticipated cost overruns; and unavailability of adequate funding. If we experience these or other problems, we may not be able to generate and distribute electricity in amounts consistent with our projections, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not have insurance for many of these risks. Our equipment, facilities and operations are subject to environmental and health regulations that may become more stringent in the future and may result in increased liabilities and increased capital expenditures. Our distribution and generation activities are subject to comprehensive federal and state legislation as well as supervision by Brazilian governmental agencies that are responsible for the implementation of environmental and health laws and policies. These agencies could take enforcement action against us for our failure to comply with their regulations. These actions could include, among other things, the imposition of fines and revocation of licenses. It is possible that enhanced environmental and health regulations will force us to allocate capital expenditures towards compliance, and consequently, divert funds away from planned investments. Such a diversion could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to complete our proposed capital expenditure program in a timely manner, the operation and development of our business may be adversely affected. We plan to invest approximately R$796 million in our generation activities, including our biomass generation company CPFL Bioenergia, and R$4,200 million in our distribution activities during the period from 2009 through 2013. Our ability to carry out this capital expenditure program depends on a variety of factors, including our ability to charge adequate tariffs for our services, our access to domestic and international capital markets and a variety of operating, regulatory and other contingencies. We cannot be certain that we will have the financial resources to complete our proposed capital expenditure program, and failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the operation and development of our business. We are strictly liable for any damages resulting from inadequate rendering of electricity services, and our contracted insurance policies may not fully cover such damages. Under Brazilian law we are strictly liable for direct and indirect damages resulting from the inadequate rendering of electricity distribution services. In addition, our distribution facilities may, together with our generation utilities, be held liable for damages caused to others as a result of interruptions or disturbances arising from the generation, transmission or distribution systems, whenever these interruptions or disturbances are not attributed to an identifiable member of the ONS. 14 Table of Contents We are controlled by a few shareholders acting together, and their interests could conflict with yours. As of December 31, 2008, VBC Energia S.A., or VBC, 521 Participações S.A., or 521, and Bonaire Participações S.A., or Bonaire, owned 27.85%, 31.10% and 12.65%, respectively, of our outstanding common shares. These entities are parties to a shareholders’ agreement, pursuant to which they share the power to control us. Our controlling shareholders may take actions that could be contrary to your interests, and our controlling shareholders will be able to prevent other shareholders, including you, from blocking these actions. In particular, our controlling shareholders control the outcome of decisions at shareholders’ meetings, and they can elect a majority of the members of our Board of Directors. Our controlling shareholders can direct our actions in areas such as business strategy, financing, distributions, acquisitions and dispositions of assets or businesses. Their decisions on these matters may be contrary to the expectations or preferences of our minority shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. See “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Shareholders’ Agreement.” We are exposed to increases in prevailing market interest rates, as well as foreign exchange rate risk. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 76.9% of our total indebtedness was denominated in reais and indexed to Brazilian money-market rates or inflation rates, or bore interest at floating rates. The remaining 23.1% of our total indebtedness was denominated in U.S. dollars and Japanese yen and substantially subject to currency swaps that converted these obligations into reais. Accordingly, if these indexation rates rise or the U.S. dollar/real or Japanese yen/real exchange rates appreciate, our financing expenses will increase. Our indebtedness and debt service obligations could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and make payments on our debt. As of December 31, 2008, we had a debt of R$6,588 million. Our indebtedness increases the possibility that we may be unable to generate cash sufficient to pay when due the principal, interest or other amounts due in respect of our indebtedness. In addition, we may incur additional debt from time to time to finance strategic acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or for other purposes, subject to the restrictions applicable under our existing indebtedness. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our leverage would increase. We may acquire other companies in the electricity business, as we have in the past, and these acquisitions could increase our leverage or adversely affect our consolidated performance. We regularly analyze opportunities to acquire other companies engaged in activities along the entire electricity generation, transmission and distribution chain. If we do acquire other electricity companies, it could increase our leverage or reduce our profitability. Furthermore, we may not be able to integrate the acquired company’s activities and achieve the economies of scale and expected efficiency gains that often drive such acquisitions, and failure to do so could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian political and economic conditions could adversely affect our business and the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. The Brazilian government frequently intervenes in the Brazilian economy and occasionally makes significant changes in policy and regulations. The Brazilian government’s economic policies have in the past involved, among other measures, price controls, currency devaluations, capital controls and limits on imports. A variety of government authorities are responsible for regulating in these areas and they sometimes issue conflicting policies. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by changes or inconsistencies in policy or regulations involving exchange controls, price controls, tax policies, the financial system or other factors. These and other measures could also affect the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. 15 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the value of the Brazilian real against foreign currencies may result in uncertainty in the Brazilian economy and the Brazilian securities market, and they could have a material adverse effect on our net income and cash flow. In recent years, the Brazilian real has fluctuated against foreign currencies, and the value of the real may rise or decline substantially from current levels. For several years, and continuing through the first half of 2008, the Brazilian real strengthened regularly against the U.S. dollar, but beginning in the second half of 2008 it has greatly depreciated against the U.S. dollar. For additional information about historical exchange rates and the impact of the depreciation of the real, see “Item 3. Key Information—Exchange Rates” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects¯Results of Operations¯2008 compared to 2007.” Depreciation of the real increases the cost of servicing our foreign currency-denominated debt and the cost of purchasing electricity from the Itaipu power plant, a hydroelectric facility that is one of our major suppliers and that adjusts electricity prices based in part on its U.S. dollar costs. Depreciation of the real also creates additional inflationary pressures in Brazil that may negatively affect us. Depreciation generally curtails access to international capital markets and may prompt government intervention. It also reduces the U.S. dollar value of our dividends and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the market price of our common shares and the ADSs. Inflation and efforts by the Brazilian government to combat inflation may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil and could harm our business and the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. Brazil has in the past experienced extremely high rates of inflation. More recently, Brazil’s annual rate of inflation was 3.8% in 2006, 7.8% in 2007 and 9.8% in 2008 as measured by the General Market Price Index, Índice Geral de Preços–Mercado (“IGP-M”). Inflation, and certain government actions taken to combat inflation, has in the past had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. Measures to curb inflation, and speculation about possible future governmental measures, have contributed to economic uncertainty in Brazil and heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets. Future measures taken by the Brazilian government, including interest rate changes, intervention in the foreign exchange market and actions to adjust or fix the value of the real may trigger increases in inflation, and consequently, have adverse economic impacts on our business. If Brazil experiences high inflation in the future, we may not be able to adjust the rates we charge our consumers to offset the effects of inflation on our cost structure. Inflationary pressures may also hinder our ability to access foreign financial markets or lead to government policies to combat inflation that could harm our business or adversely affect the market price of the ADSs and our common shares. Risks Relating to the ADSs and Our Common Shares Holders of our ADSs may encounter difficulties in the exercise of voting rights. Holders of our common shares are entitled to vote on shareholder matters. You may encounter difficulties in the exercise of some of your rights as a shareholder if you hold our ADSs rather than the underlying common shares. For example, you are not entitled to attend a shareholders’ meeting, and you can only vote by giving timely instructions to the depositary in advance of the meeting. If you surrender your ADSs and withdraw common shares, you risk losing the ability to remit foreign currency abroad and certain Brazilian tax advantages. As an ADS holder, you will benefit from the electronic certificate of foreign capital registration to be obtained by the custodian for our common shares underlying the ADSs in Brazil, which permits the custodian to convert dividends and other distributions with respect to the common shares into non-Brazilian currency and remit the proceeds abroad. If you surrender your ADSs and withdraw common shares, you will be entitled to continue to rely on the custodian’s electronic certificate of foreign capital registration for only five business days from the date of withdrawal. Thereafter, upon the disposition of or distributions relating to the common shares, you will not be able to remit abroad non-Brazilian currency unless you obtain your own electronic certificate of foreign capital registration or you qualify under Brazilian foreign investment regulations that entitle some foreign investors to buy and sell shares on Brazilian stock exchanges without obtaining separate electronic certificates of foreign capital registration. If you do not qualify under the foreign investment regulations you will generally be subject to less favorable tax treatment of dividends and distributions on, and the proceeds from any sale of, the common shares. 16 Table of Contents If you attempt to obtain your own electronic certificate of foreign capital registration, you may incur expenses or suffer delays in the application process, which could delay your ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to our common shares or the return of your capital in a timely manner. The depositary’s electronic certificate of foreign capital registration may also be adversely affected by future legislative changes. The protections afforded to minority shareholders in Brazil are different from those in the United States, and may be more difficult to enforce. Under Brazilian law, the protections afforded to minority shareholders are different from those in the United States. In particular, the legal framework with respect to shareholder disputes is less developed under Brazilian law than U.S. law and there are different procedural requirements for bringing shareholder lawsuits, such as shareholder derivative suits. As a result, in practice it may be more difficult for our minority shareholders to enforce their rights against us or our directors or controlling shareholders than it would be for shareholders of a U.S. company. Changes in Brazilian tax laws may have an adverse impact on the taxes applicable to a disposition of the ADSs. According to Law No. 10,833, enacted on December 29, 2003, the capital gains derived from the disposition of assets located in Brazil by a non-resident to either a Brazilian resident or a non-resident is subject to taxation in Brazil, regardless of whether the disposition occurs outside or within Brazil. If the disposition of assets is interpreted to include a disposition of the ADSs, this tax law could result in the imposition of withholding income tax on a disposition in Brazil of the ADSs by a non-resident of Brazil to another non-resident of Brazil. Because no judicial guidance as to the application of Law No. 10,833 yet exists, we are unable to predict whether an interpretation applying withholding income tax to dispositions of the ADSs between non-residents could ultimately prevail in the courts of Brazil. As a general rule, the capital gains derived from the disposition of common shares by a non-resident are subject to income tax in Brazil. See “Item 10. Additional Information-Taxation—Brazilian Tax Considerations.” Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to our common shares. We may not be able to offer our common shares to U.S. holders of ADSs pursuant to preemptive rights granted to holders of our common shares in connection with any future issuance of our common shares unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, or the Securities Act, is effective with respect to such common shares and preemptive rights, or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement relating to preemptive rights with respect to our common shares, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. If such a registration statement is not filed and an exemption from registration does not exist, The Bank of New York, as depositary, will attempt to sell the preemptive rights, and you will be entitled to receive the net proceeds of such sale. However, these preemptive rights will expire if the depositary does not sell them, and U.S. holders of ADSs will not realize any value from the granting of such preemptive rights. 