ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Our industry is highly cyclical, and prolonged periods of weak demand or excess supply may reduce our net sales and/or margins, which may reduce our net income or cause us to incur losses. The building products distribution industry is subject to cyclical market pressures. Prices of building products are determined by overall supply and demand in the market for building products. Market prices of building products historically have been volatile and cyclical, and we have limited ability to control the timing and amount of pricing changes for building products. Demand for building products is driven mainly by factors outside of our control, such as general economic and political conditions, interest rates, availability of mortgage financing, the construction, repair and remodeling and industrial markets, weather and population growth. The supply of building products fluctuates based on available manufacturing capacity, and excess capacity in the industry can result in significant declines in market prices for those products. To the extent that prices and volumes experience a sustained or sharp decline, our net sales and margins likely would decline as well. Because we have substantial fixed costs, a decrease in sales and margin generally may have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our results in some periods have been affected by market volatility, including a reduction in gross profits due to a decline in the resale value of our structural products inventory. All of these factors make it difficult to forecast our operating results. 8 Our industry is dependent on the homebuilding industry which has suffered from a prolonged significant downturn, and any slowdown in the current recovery or any future downturns would materially affect our business, liquidity and operating results. Our sales depend heavily on the strength of national and local new residential construction and home improvement and remodeling markets. The strength of these markets depends on new housing starts and residential renovation projects, which are a function of many factors beyond our control. Some of these factors include general economic conditions, employment levels, job and household formation, interest rates, housing prices, tax policy, availability of mortgage financing, prices of commodity wood and steel products, immigration patterns, regional demographics and consumer confidence. The overall housing market and the economy have been improving; however, the U.S. residential construction market has suffered from a multi-year downturn that was one of the most severe housing downturns in United States history. While there have been signs of improvement in the U.S. economy generally, and in the residential housing market in particular, it is unclear if and to what extent the residential construction market will continue to improve during fiscal 2014. Our results of operations were adversely affected by the severe downturn in new housing activity in the United States, and, while recently improving, any slowdown in the current recovery or any future downturns in the markets that we serve or in the economy generally will have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. Reduced levels of construction activity may result in continued intense price competition among building materials suppliers, which may adversely affect our gross margins. We cannot provide assurance that our responses to future downturns in the economy in general, and in the residential housing market in particular, will be successful. A significant portion of our sales are on credit to our customers. Material changes in their credit worthiness or our inability to forecast deterioration in their credit position could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flow and liquidity. The majority of our sales are on account where we provide credit to our customers. Market disruptions could cause economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our products and increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay their accounts. Bankruptcies by our customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. In fiscal 2013, approximately 0.1% in bad debt expense to total net sales was incurred related to credit sales. Our customers are generally susceptible to the same economic business risks as we are. Furthermore, we may not necessarily be aware of any deterioration in their financial position. If our customers’ financial position becomes impaired, it could have a significant impact on our bad debt exposure and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flow and liquidity. In addition, certain of our suppliers potentially may be impacted as well, causing disruption or delay of product availability. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to make required payments on our substantial indebtedness and future indebtedness or to maintain our required level of excess liquidity. We have a substantial amount of debt. As of January 4, 2014, we had outstanding borrowings of $207.9 million and excess availability of $44.5 million under the terms of our U.S. revolving credit facility (the “U.S. revolving credit facility”), outstanding borrowings of $3.3 million and excess availability of $1.3 million under our Canadian revolving credit facility (the “Canadian revolving credit facility”) and outstanding letters of credit totaling $3.6 million. As of January 4, 2014, the principal amount outstanding on our mortgage loan with the German American Capital Corporation was $186.9 million. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: ● make it difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; ● make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; 9 ● limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements as our excess liquidity likely will decrease while our industry and our Company continues its recovery from the historic housing market downturn; ● expose us to interest rate fluctuations because the interest rate on the debt under our U.S. revolving credit facility is variable; ● require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes; ● limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and ● place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt, and therefore may be in a better position to get favorable credit terms. In addition, our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance, cash flows and capital resources, which in turn depend upon prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: ● economic and demand factors affecting the building products distribution industry; ● pricing pressures; ● increased operating costs; ● competitive conditions; and ● other operating difficulties. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. Obtaining additional capital or restructuring our debt could be accomplished in part through new or additional borrowings or placements of debt or equity securities. There is no assurance that we could obtain additional capital or restructure our debt on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations, the value realized on the disposition of such assets or operations will depend on market conditions and the availability of buyers. Accordingly, any such sale may not, among other things, be for a sufficient dollar amount. Our obligations under the revolving credit facilities are secured by a first priority security interest in all of our operating subsidiary’s and BlueLinx Building Products Canada Ltd.’s (“BlueLinx Canada’s”) (for the Canadian revolving credit facility) inventories, receivables and proceeds from those items. In addition, our mortgage loan is secured by the majority of our real property. The foregoing encumbrances may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations. We also may not be able to restructure our indebtedness on favorable economic terms, if at all. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including under the revolving credit facilities. Our incurring additional indebtedness would intensify the risks described above. The instruments governing our indebtedness contain various covenants limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business, including requiring us to maintain a minimum level of excess liquidity. Our revolving credit facilities and mortgage loan contain various restrictive covenants and restrictions, including financial covenants customary for asset-based loans that limit management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these instruments limit our ability to, among other things: ● incur additional debt; ● grant liens on assets; ● make investments, including capital expenditures; 10 ● sell or acquire assets outside the ordinary course of business; ● engage in transactions with affiliates; and ● make fundamental business changes. As of January 4, 2014, the U.S. revolving credit facility requires us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.0 in the event our excess availability falls below the greater of $31.8 million or the amount equal to 12.5% of the lesser of the borrowing base or $447.5 million (the “Excess Availability Threshold”). If we fail to maintain this minimum excess availability, the U.S. revolving credit facility requires us to (i) maintain certain financial ratios, which we would not meet with current operating results, and (ii) limit our capital expenditures, which would have a negative impact on our ability to finance working capital needs and capital expenditures. In the event that excess availability falls below $37.1 million or the amount equal to 15% of the lesser of the borrowing base or $447.5 million, the U.S. revolving credit facility gives the lenders the right, but not the obligation, to dominion over our bank accounts. This would not make the underlying debt callable by the lender and may not change our ability to borrow on the U.S. revolving credit facility. However, we would be required to reclassify the “Long-term debt” to “Current maturities of long-term debt” on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. If we fail to comply with the restrictions in the U.S. revolving credit facility, the Canadian revolving credit facility, the mortgage loan documents or any other current or future financing agreements, a default may allow the creditors under the relevant instruments to accelerate the related debt and to exercise their remedies under these agreements, which will typically include the right to declare the principal amount of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other related amounts, immediately due and payable, to exercise any remedies the creditors may have to foreclose on assets that are subject to liens securing that debt and to terminate any commitments they had made to supply further funds. We are dependent upon several large suppliers for a significant percentage of our products. Although we have made progress in diversifying our supplier base, we are still dependent on several large suppliers for a significant percentage of our products. Purchases in fiscal 2013 from the five largest suppliers were approximately 26% in the aggregate. None of these suppliers individually constitute more than 10% of our product purchases. Although in many instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. Failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with products on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could put pressure on our gross margins or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. The market for our private label products may not develop as anticipated, and we may have problems in the supply chain for these products. We have been increasing the number of private label products that we offer to our customers. Private label products are those that are manufactured for us by third parties, but are then branded by us. The market for these products may be slow to develop or may not develop at all if customers prefer to purchase the more commonly recognized “name brand” versions of the same products. These products are manufactured on our behalf by third party suppliers, and we do not directly control the manufacturing process. As a result, while such products must generally meet certain quality standards set by us, it is possible that our results may be negatively impacted if there are defects in the manufacturing process that are not identified prior to our branding of the products and the sale to our customers. Further, problems in the supply chain, including but not limited to manufacturing disruptions, transportation disruptions, or other operational problems for these products may adversely impact our ability to maintain sufficient inventory levels for the private label products. We source many products internationally and are exposed to risks associated with doing business globally. We import a variety of products from countries located in Asia, South America and the Middle East. The business, regulatory and political environments in these countries differ from those in the U.S. Our global sourcing strategy is subject to risks and uncertainties, including changes in foreign country regulatory requirements; differing business practices associated with foreign operations; imposition of foreign tariffs and other trade barriers; political, legal and economic instability; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; foreign country tax rules, regulations and other requirements, such as changes in tax rates and statutory and judicial interpretations in tax laws; inflation; differing labor laws and changes in those laws; government price controls; and work stoppages and disruptions in the shipping of imported and exported products. 11 Our transportation operations are subject to significant governmental regulation. We use our own fleet of over 480 tractors and over 700 trailers to service customers throughout the United States. Our transportation operations are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the DOT. The DOT has broad administrative powers with respect to our transportation operations. If we fail to adequately comply with DOT regulations or regulations become more stringent, we could experience increased inspections, regulatory authorities could take remedial action including imposing fines or shutting down our operations or we could be subject to increased audit and compliance costs. If any of these events were to occur, our results of operations, business, cash flow, and financial condition would be adversely affected. Product shortages, loss of key suppliers, and our dependence on third-party suppliers and manufacturers could affect our financial health. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers and other suppliers. Generally, our products are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. However, the loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from our suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Although in many instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. Failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with products on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could put pressure on our gross margins or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Our industry is highly fragmented and competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively, our net sales and operating results will be reduced. The building products distribution industry is highly fragmented and competitive, and the barriers to entry for local competitors are relatively low. Competitive factors in our industry include pricing and availability of product, service and delivery capabilities, ability to assist with problem-solving, customer relationships, geographic coverage and breadth of product offerings. Also, financial stability is important to suppliers and customers in choosing distributors for their products and affects the favorability of the terms on which we are able to obtain our products from our suppliers and sell our products to our customers. Some of our competitors are part of larger companies and therefore have access to greater financial and other resources than those to which we have access. In addition, certain product manufacturers sell and distribute their products directly to customers. Additional manufacturers of products distributed by us may elect to sell and distribute directly to end-users in the future or enter into exclusive supply arrangements with other distributors. Finally, we may not be able to maintain our costs at a level sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, our net sales and net income will be reduced. Integrating acquisitions may be time-consuming and create costs that could reduce our operating results and cash flows. We may elect to selectively pursue acquisitions. Any integration process may be complex and time consuming, may be disruptive to the business and may cause an interruption of, or a distraction of management’s attention from, the business as a result of a number of obstacles, including but not limited to: ● the loss of key customers of the acquired company; ● the incurrence of unexpected expenses and working capital requirements; ● a failure of our due diligence process to identify significant issues or contingencies; 12 ● difficulties assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; ● difficulties effectively integrating the acquired technologies with our current technologies; ● our inability to retain key personnel of acquired entities; ● failure to maintain the quality of customer service; ● our inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; and ● difficulty in maintaining internal controls, procedures and policies. Any of the foregoing obstacles, or a combination of them, could increase selling, general and administrative expenses in absolute terms and/or as a percentage of net sales, which could in turn negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, future acquisitions are accompanied by the risk that the obligations and liabilities of an acquired company may not be adequately reflected in the historical financial statements of that company and the risk that those historical financial statements may be based on assumptions which are incorrect or inconsistent with our assumptions or approach to accounting policies. Any of these material obligations, liabilities or incorrect or inconsistent assumptions could adversely impact our results of operations. A significant percentage of our employees are unionized. Wage increases or work stoppages by our unionized employees may reduce our results of operations. As of January 4, 2014, approximately 33% of our employees were represented by various labor unions. As of January 4, 2014, we had 36 collective bargaining agreements, of which 5, covering approximately 58 total employees, are up for renewal in fiscal 2014. Although we have generally had good relations with our unionized employees and expect to renew collective bargaining agreements as they expire, no assurances can be provided that we will be able to reach a timely agreement as to the renewal of the agreements, and their expiration or continued work under an expired agreement, as applicable, could result in a work stoppage. In addition, we may become subject to material cost increases, or additional work rules imposed by agreements with labor unions. The foregoing could increase our selling, general and administrative expenses in absolute terms and/or as a percentage of net sales. In addition, work stoppages or other labor disturbances may occur in the future, which could adversely impact our net sales and/or selling, general and administrative expenses. All of these factors could negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. Increases in the cost of employee benefits, such as pension and other postretirement benefits, could impact our financial results and cash flow. Unfavorable changes in the cost of our pension retirement benefits and current employees’ medical benefits could materially impact our financial results and cash flow. We sponsor several defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of our hourly employees. Our estimates of the amount and timing of our future funding obligations for our defined benefit pension plans are based upon various assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, the discount rate, projected return on plan assets, compensation increase rates, mortality rates, retirement patterns, and turnover rates. In addition, the amount and timing of our pension funding obligations can be influenced by funding requirements that are established by the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”), the Pension Protection Act, Congressional Acts, or other governing bodies. The Company’s minimum required contribution to the noncontributory defined benefit pension plans (the “hourly pension plan”) for plan year 2012 was $3.2 million. In an effort to preserve additional cash for operations, we applied for a waiver from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for our 2012 minimum required contribution. Although the Company’s outside counsel has been notified by the IRS that its waiver request has been preliminarily approved and that the IRS is in the process of finalizing the waiver request, no assurances can be provided that the waiver request will be granted until the Company receives final approval from the IRS. If we are granted the requested waiver, our contributions for 2012 will be amortized over the following five years, increasing our future minimum required contributions. The Company’s minimum required contribution for plan year 2013 was estimated to be $6.0 million, assuming we receive the requested waiver. During the second quarter of fiscal 2013, we contributed certain qualifying employer real property to the hourly pension plan. The properties, including certain land and buildings, are located in Charleston, S.C. and Buffalo, N.Y., and were valued at approximately $6.8 million by independent appraisals prior to the contribution. The contribution was recorded by the hourly pension plan at the fair market value of $6.8 million. 13 We currently are required to make three quarterly cash contributions during fiscal 2014 of $1.5 million each related to our 2014 minimum required contribution. We participate in various multi-employer pension plans in the United States. The majority of these plans are underfunded. If, in the future, we choose to withdraw from these plans, we likely would need to record a withdrawal liability, which may be material to our financial results. The payment of dividends has been suspended, and resumption is dependent on business conditions, among other factors. Further, the instruments governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that may limit our ability to pay dividends. We suspended the payment of dividends on our common stock for an indefinite period of time on December 5, 2007. Resumption of the payment of dividends will depend on, among other things, business conditions in the housing industry, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Accordingly, we may not be able to resume the payment of dividends at the same quarterly rate in the future, if at all. Environmental laws impose risks and costs on us. Our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, rules and regulations governing the protection of the environment, including, but not limited to, those regulating discharges into the air and water, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, the management of wastes, the cleanup of contamination and the control of noise and odors. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with these requirements. While we believe, based upon current information, that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws, rules and regulations, we could be subject to potentially significant fines or penalties for any failure to comply. Moreover, under certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, and parties that generate or transport hazardous substances that are disposed of at that real property, may be held liable for the cost to investigate or clean up such real property and for related damages to natural resources. We may be subject to liability, including liability for investigation and cleanup costs, if contamination is discovered at one of our current or former warehouse facilities, or at a landfill or other location where we have disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of, wastes. G-P has agreed to indemnify us against any claim arising from environmental conditions that existed prior to May 7, 2004 in connection with the properties we acquired when we purchased the assets of the Division. However, any remediation costs either not related to conditions existing prior to May 7, 2004 or on properties acquired after May 7, 2004 may not be covered by indemnification. We also carry environmental insurance, but certain remediation costs may not be covered by insurance. We could also be subject to claims brought pursuant to applicable laws, rules or regulations for property damage or personal injury resulting from the environmental impact of our operations. Increasingly stringent environmental requirements, more aggressive enforcement actions, the discovery of unknown conditions or the bringing of future claims may cause our expenditures for environmental matters to increase, and we may incur material costs associated with these matters. Failure to comply with governmental laws and regulations could harm our business. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing employment and labor laws, workplace safety, product safety, environmental laws, consumer protection laws, anti-bribery laws, import/export controls, federal securities laws and tax laws and regulations. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, mandatory product recalls, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties or injunctions. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. Enforcement actions and sanctions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 14 Affiliates of Cerberus control us and may have conflicts of interest with other stockholders in the future. Cerberus beneficially owned approximately 54% of our common stock as of January 4, 2014. As a result, Cerberus is able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. This concentrated ownership position limits other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not view as beneficial. Cerberus is controlled by Cerberus Capital Management. Two of our nine directors are employees of or current advisors to Cerberus Capital Management. Cerberus also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. The interests of Cerberus may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Additionally, Cerberus is in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Cerberus may also pursue, for its own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as Cerberus continues to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, it will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. In addition, because we are a controlled company within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules, we are exempt from the NYSE requirements that our board be composed of a majority of independent directors, that our compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors, and that we maintain a nominating/corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors. Even if Cerberus no longer controls us in the future, certain provisions of our charter documents and agreements and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. Our Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws contain provisions that: ● permit us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, up to 30 million shares of preferred stock in one or more series and, with respect to each series, to fix the number of shares constituting the series and the designation of the series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of such series, and the preferences and other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions, of the shares of the series; and ● limit the stockholders’ ability to call special meetings. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or the “DGCL”, which also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. Further, certain of our incentive plans provide for vesting of stock options and/or payments to be made to our employees in connection with a change of control, which could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. We are subject to cyber security risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks. Our business employs systems and a website that allow for the secure storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. As cyber attacks become more sophisticated generally, we may be required to incur significant costs to strengthen our systems from outside intrusions and/or obtain insurance coverage related to the threat of such attacks. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 15 