Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are several factors, some beyond our control that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Some of these factors are described below. Other factors, such as market, operational, liquidity, interest rate and other risks, are described elsewhere in this report (see, for example, Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Any factor described in this report could by itself, or together with one or more factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. There may be factors not described in this report that could also cause results to differ from our expectations. We cannot predict with a great level of precision the effect that the Affordable Care Act and its implementation may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Affordable Care Act dramatically altered the U.S. healthcare system and was intended to decrease the number of uninsured Americans and reduce the overall cost of healthcare. The Affordable Care Act attempts to achieve these goals by, among other things, requiring most Americans to obtain health insurance, providing additional funding for Medicaid in states that choose to expand their programs, reducing Medicare and Medicaid DSH payments to providers, expanding the Medicare program’s use of value-based purchasing programs, tying hospital payments to the satisfaction of certain quality criteria, bundling payments to hospitals and other providers, and instituting certain private health insurance reforms. Although some of the measures contained in the Affordable Care Act do not take effect until 2014, certain of the reductions in Medicare spending, such as negative adjustments to the Medicare hospital inpatient and outpatient prospective payment system market basket updates and the incorporation of productivity adjustments to the Medicare program’s annual inflation updates, became effective prior to 2013. Although the expansion of health insurance coverage is projected to increase revenues from providing care to certain previously uninsured individuals, many of these provisions of the Affordable Care Act become effective in 2014 and others will not become effective until later years. The impact and timing of such expansion remains difficult to predict, will be gradual and may not offset scheduled decreases in reimbursement. In 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act, including the “individual mandate” provisions of the Affordable Care Act that generally require all individuals to obtain healthcare insurance or pay a penalty. However, the U.S. Supreme Court also held that the provision of the Affordable Care Act that authorized the Secretary of HHS to penalize states that choose not to participate in the expansion of the Medicaid program by removing all of their existing Medicaid funding was unconstitutional. As a result, at December 31, 2013, only seven of the states in which we operate are currently implementing expansions to their Medicaid programs. Accordingly, some low-income persons in other states that are not expanding Medicaid may not have insurance coverage as intended by the Affordable Care Act. In addition, several bills have been and may continue to be introduced in Congress to delay, defund, repeal or amend all or significant provisions of the Affordable Care Act. The Affordable Care Act changes how healthcare services are covered, delivered, and reimbursed. The net effect of the Affordable Care Act on our business is subject to numerous variables, including the law’s complexity, lack of complete implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, gradual implementation and possible amendment, as well as the uncertainty as to the extent to which states will choose to expand their Medicaid program and the extent to which individuals will elect coverage. In addition, a number of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act that were scheduled to become effective in 2014, such as the employer mandate, the Small Business Health Option Program, and the state run exchange verification of income and Medicaid agency electronic notification of eligibility for tax credit and subsidy requirements, have been delayed until 2015 or 2016, and additional delays in the implementation of these or other provisions of the Affordable Care Act could be imposed in the future. As a result, we are unable to predict with great certainty the net effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations of the expected increases in insured individuals using our facilities, the reductions in government healthcare reimbursement spending, and numerous other provisions of the Affordable Care Act that may affect us. We are also unable to predict with a high level of precision how providers, payors, employers and other market participants will continue to respond to the various reform provisions because many provisions will not be implemented for several years 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS under the Affordable Care Act’s implementation schedule. Further, continued legislative efforts to delay, defund or repeal implementation of or amend the Affordable Care Act will impact our business in the future. Our revenues will decline if federal or state programs reduce our Medicare or Medicaid payments or if managed care companies reduce reimbursement amounts. In addition, the financial condition of payors and healthcare cost containment initiatives may limit our revenues and profitability. In 2013, we derived 46.7% of our revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs, collectively. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations concerning patient eligibility requirements, funding levels and the method of calculating payments or reimbursements and requirements for utilization review, among other things, and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease payments from these government programs in the future, as well as affect the timing of payments to our facilities. We are unable to predict the effect of future government healthcare funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payors are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payors is limited or if we or one or more of our hospitals are excluded from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid program or any other government healthcare program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, revenues from HMOs, PPOs and other private payors are subject to contracts and other arrangements that require us to discount the amounts we customarily charge for healthcare services. During the past several years, healthcare payors, such as federal and state governments, insurance companies and employers, have undertaken initiatives to revise payment methodologies and monitor healthcare costs. As part of their efforts to contain healthcare costs, payors increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk related to paying for care provided, often in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. Similarly, many individuals and employers have attempted to reduce their healthcare costs by moving to private payor plans that reimburse our facilities at significantly lower rate than other competing private payors. We expect efforts to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and private payors to continue, thereby reducing the payments we receive for our services. In addition, payors have instituted policies and procedures to substantially reduce or limit the use of inpatient services. For example, CMS has transitioned to full implementation of the MS-DRG system, which represents a refinement to the existing diagnosis-related group system. Future realignments in the MS-DRG system could impact the margins we receive for certain services. Furthermore, the Affordable Care Act, the Tax Relief Act and the ATRA provide for material reductions in the growth of Medicare program spending, including reductions in Medicare market basket updates, and Medicare DSH funding and the BCA imposed a 2% reduction in Medicare spending effective as of April 1, 2013. All of our hospitals are certified as providers of Medicaid services. Medicaid programs are jointly funded by federal and state governments and are administered by states under an approved plan that provides hospital and other healthcare benefits to qualifying individuals who are unable to afford care. A number of states, however, are experiencing budget problems and have adopted or are considering legislation designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures, including enrolling Medicaid recipients in managed care programs and imposing additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand such states’ Medicaid systems. It is possible that budgetary pressures will force states to resort to some of the cost saving measures mentioned above. These efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Changes to Medicaid supplemental payment programs may materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Medicaid supplemental payments (“MSPs”) are payments made to providers separate from and in addition to those made at a state’s standard Medicaid payment rate. The two most prevalent forms of MSPs are DSH and Upper Payment Limit (“UPL”) payments. DSH payments are federally required to be made by the states to hospitals that serve significant numbers of Medicaid and uninsured patients in recognition of the added costs incurred by hospitals in treating these patients. The total amount of DSH payments a state may 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS make and the total amount any one hospital may receive are both capped by federal law. Unlike DSH, UPL payments are not required to be made by states under federal law. Rather, federal regulations establish an upper payment limit above which states may not receive federal matching dollars. Most states create a UPL program to help offset the shortfall caused when the state funds inpatient and outpatient Medicaid hospital rates at levels that do not cover the hospitals’ costs for treating Medicaid patients. Both DSH and UPL MSP programs are jointly financed by state funds and federal matching funds. The state portion may be funded through general revenue, intergovernmental transfers from local governments or health care related taxes (“Provider Taxes”). Provider Taxes are imposed by states in the form of a licensing fee, assessment or other mandatory payment which are related to: (i) healthcare items or services; (ii) the provision of, or the authority to provide, health care items or services; or (iii) the payment for health care items or services. Pursuant to the Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Pathway Act, funding for Medicaid DSH programs is to be significantly reduced beginning in 2016. Because of the U.S. Supreme Court decision that states are not required to expand Medicaid programs, the reduction in Medicaid DSH payments may take place without a coupled increase in the Medicaid eligible population, potentially increasing the amount of uncompensated care we provide. UPL programs have expanded in recent years and related MSPs to our hospitals have similarly increased as states use UPL programs as a way to avoid or mitigate reimbursement cuts to providers. There are several factors that could adversely affect a state’s UPL program and the UPL MSPs hospitals receive. In calculating a state’s UPL, only services utilized by Medicaid beneficiaries paid on a fee-for-service basis may be counted. Services provided to Medicaid beneficiaries enrolled in managed care are not included in state UPL calculations, and as many states increase the use of managed care Medicaid programs UPL MSPs could be reduced. In addition, state UPL funding, and matching federal funds, may be reduced if local governmental units are unable to (or simply decide not to) sustain historical funding levels or if Provider Taxes, which are currently subject to various federal regulations, are limited or eliminated by legislative or regulatory action. For example, as a result of changes made to one such program in New Mexico, the Sole Community Provider Program (“New Mexico SCPP”), we recognized revenues of approximately $16.3 million and $34.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. This represents a net period over period decrease in revenues of $17.7 million. This change primarily impacted our hospital, Memorial Medical Center of Las Cruces, New Mexico (“MMC”). Currently, for 2014, we anticipate annual reimbursement under the New Mexico SCPP to approximate between $9.0 million and $11.0 million. Reductions in MSP programs at MMC or other facilities could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Spending cuts and other changes resulting from the BCA and other recent legislation and regulations may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. On August 2, 2011, the BCA was enacted. The BCA increased the nation’s debt ceiling while taking steps to reduce the federal deficit. The deficit reduction component was implemented in two phases. In the first phase, the BCA imposed caps that reduced discretionary (non-entitlement) spending by more than $900 billion over 10 years, beginning in FFY 2012. Second, a bipartisan Congressional Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (the “Committee”) was charged with identifying at least $1.5 trillion in deficit reduction, which could include entitlement provisions like Medicare reimbursement to providers. On November 21, 2011, the Committee announced that its members were unable to agree on any measures to reduce the deficit, and as a result, $1.2 trillion in across-the-board spending reductions required by the BCA are scheduled to be imposed automatically for FFY 2013 through 2021, split evenly between domestic and defense spending. The Pathway Act extended those reductions through FFY 2023. Certain programs (including the Medicaid program) are protected from these automatic spending reductions. While provider payments under the Medicare program would be subject to reduction under this enforcement mechanism, those reductions would be capped at 2%. On January 1, 2013, the ATRA delayed the imposition of the BCA’s automatic spending reductions from January 2, 2013 to March 1, 2013, with the CMS implementing the 2% reduction in Medicare spending on April 1, 2013. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS On April 10, 2013, President Obama released his proposed budget for FFY 2014 (the “Proposed Budget”). The Proposed Budget would replace the BCA’s automatic spending reductions for the Medicare program for 2014 with $400 billion in Medicare and Medicaid spending cuts over the next 10 years. The Proposed Budget would achieve these reductions by, among other things, reducing Medicare coverage of bad debts, reducing payments to critical access hospitals, reducing payments to inpatient rehabilitation and skilled nursing facilities, and increasing financial liabilities for certain Medicare beneficiaries. We cannot predict whether the Proposed Budget will be implemented in whole or in part or whether Congress will take other legislative action to reduce spending on the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Additionally, future efforts to reduce the federal deficit may result in additional revisions to and payment reductions for the amounts we receive for our services. The automatic spending reductions of the BCA, the Pathway Act, the Proposed Budget (if adopted), the regulations described above or any other related legislation or regulation may have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flow. We are subject to increasingly stringent governmental regulation, and may be subjected to allegations that we have failed to comply with governmental regulations which could result in sanctions and even greater scrutiny that reduce our revenues and profitability. All participants in the healthcare industry are required to comply with many laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations require that hospitals meet various requirements, including those relating to hospitals’ relationships with physicians and other referral sources, the adequacy and quality of medical care, inpatient admission criteria, privacy and security of health information, standards for equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, billing and cost reports, payment for services and supplies, maintenance of adequate records, compliance with building codes and environmental protection, among other matters. Many of the laws and regulations applicable to the healthcare industry are complex, and there are numerous enforcement authorities, including CMS, OIG, the Department of Justice, state attorneys general, and contracted auditors, as well as whistleblowers. Some positions taken in connection with enforcement appear to be inconsistent with historical common practices within the industry but have not previously been challenged. Moreover, as a result of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act that created potential False Claims Act liabilities for failing to report and repay known overpayments and return an overpayment within sixty (60) days of the identification of the overpayment or the date by which a corresponding cost report is due, whichever is later, hospitals and other healthcare providers are encouraged to disclose potential violations of law. The healthcare industry has seen a number of investigations by state and federal enforcement authorities related to patient referrals, physician recruiting practices, physician employment relationships, cost reporting and billing practices, medical necessity, laboratory and home healthcare services, physician ownership of hospitals, and other joint ventures involving hospitals and physicians. For example, our hospital, Jackson Purchase Medical Center in Mayfield, Kentucky, entered into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with the OIG on June 27, 2011 following an investigation of certain billing practices. This investigation was initiated after a Medicare beneficiary made a complaint to an Assistant U.S. Attorney. With an increased public emphasis on enforcement being made by state and federal agencies, including changes in laws that encourage and facilitate whistleblowers to make complaints, we anticipate that hospitals and healthcare providers, including those owned by the Company, will face an increased number of governmental inquiries arising out of complaints made by program beneficiaries or other individuals. Hospitals continue to be one of the primary focal areas of the OIG and other governmental fraud and abuse programs. In January 2005, the OIG issued Supplemental Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals that focuses on hospital compliance risk areas. Some of the risk areas highlighted by the OIG include correct outpatient procedure coding, revising admission and discharge policies to reflect current CMS rules, submitting appropriate claims for supplemental payments such as pass-through costs and outlier payments and a general discussion of the fraud and abuse risks related to financial relationships with referral sources. Each FFY, the OIG also publishes a General Work Plan that provides a brief description of the activities that the OIG plans to initiate or continue with respect to the programs and operations of HHS and details the areas that the OIG believes are prone to fraud and abuse. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS The laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate our hospitals and our ability to participate in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Finally, we are subject to various federal, state and local statutes and ordinances regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. Our healthcare operations generate medical waste, such as pharmaceuticals, biological materials and disposable medical instruments that must be disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations. Our operations are also subject to various other environmental laws, rules and regulations. Environmental regulations also may apply when we renovate or refurbish hospitals, particularly older facilities. As a result of increased reviews of claims to Medicare and Medicaid for our services, we may experience delayed payments or incur additional costs and may be required to repay amounts already paid to us. We are subject to regular post-payment inquiries, investigations and audits of the claims we submit to Medicare for payment for our services. These post-payment reviews are increasing as a result of government cost-containment initiatives, including enhanced medical necessity reviews for Medicare patients admitted as inpatients to general acute care hospitals for certain procedures (e.g., cardiovascular procedures) and audits of Medicare claims under the RAC programs. RACs utilize a post-payment targeted review process employing data analysis techniques in order to identify those Medicare claims most likely to contain overpayments, such as incorrectly coded services, short stays, incorrect payment amounts, non-covered services and duplicate payments. The claims review strategies used by the RACs generally include a review of high dollar claims, including inpatient hospital claims. As a result, a large majority of the total amounts recovered by RACs has come from hospitals. In addition, CMS has announced a pre-payment demonstration project that will allow RACs to review claims before they are paid to ensure that the provider complied with all Medicare payment rules. Under the demonstration project, RACs conduct prepayment reviews on certain types of claims that historically result in high rates of improper payments, beginning with those involving short stay inpatient hospital services. These reviews will focus on certain states with high populations of fraud and error-prone providers (including the states of Florida, Michigan, Texas and Louisiana in which we operate) and other states (including the state of North Carolina in which we operate) with high claims volumes of short inpatient hospital stays. The demonstration project began on August 27, 2012 and will run for a three year period. The Affordable Care Act expanded the RAC program’s scope to include managed Medicare and to include Medicaid claims, and all states are now required to establish programs to contract with RACs. In addition, CMS employs Medicaid Integrity Contractors (“MICs”) to perform post-payment audits of Medicaid claims and identify overpayments. The Affordable Care Act increases federal funding for the MIC program for FFY 2011 and later years. In addition to RACs and MICs, the state Medicaid agencies and other contractors have also increased their review activities. Any such audit or investigation could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. We may continue to see the growth of uninsured and “patient due” accounts, and deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our collections of accounts receivable, revenues, results of operations and cash flows. The primary collection risks associated with our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and co-payments) remain outstanding. The provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. This risk has increased, and will likely continue to increase, as more individuals are enrolled in insurance plans with high deductibles or high co-payments. These trends will likely be exacerbated if general economic conditions remain challenging or if unemployment levels in the communities in which we operate rise. If unemployment 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS rates increase or general economic conditions in our communities remain challenging, our business strategies to generate organic growth and to improve admissions and adjusted admissions at our hospitals could become more difficult to accomplish. The amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based on our assessments of historical collection trends, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health coverage and other collection indicators. A continuation in trends that results in increasing the proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our collections of accounts receivable, results of operations and cash flows. As enacted, the Affordable Care Act seeks to decrease, over time, the number of uninsured individuals. Among other things, the Affordable Care Act will, beginning in 2014, incentivize states to expand their Medicaid eligibility requirements and incentivize employers to offer, and require individuals to carry, health insurance or be subject to penalties. However, it is difficult to predict the full impact of the Affordable Care Act due to its complexity, lack of implementing regulations and interpretive guidance, state decisions to decline Medicaid expansion, gradual and potentially delayed implementation, and possible amendment, as well as our inability to foresee how individuals, businesses and states will respond to the choices afforded them by the Affordable Care Act. In addition, even after implementation of the Affordable Care Act, we may continue to experience bad debts and be required to provide uninsured discounts and charity care for undocumented immigrants who are not permitted to enroll in a health insurance exchange or government healthcare programs and in states that choose not to expand their Medicaid programs. Controls designed to reduce inpatient services may reduce our revenues. Controls imposed by Medicare, Medicaid, and commercial third-party payors designed to reduce admissions and lengths of stay, commonly referred to as “utilization review,” have affected and are expected to continue to affect our facilities. Federal law contains numerous provisions designed to ensure that services rendered by hospitals to Medicare and Medicaid patients meet professionally recognized standards and are medically necessary and that claims for reimbursement are properly filed. These provisions include a requirement that a sampling of admissions of Medicare and Medicaid patients must be reviewed by quality improvement organizations, which review the appropriateness of Medicare and Medicaid patient admissions and discharges, the quality of care provided, the validity of MS-DRG classifications and the appropriateness of cases of extraordinary length of stay or cost on a post-discharge basis. Quality improvement organizations may deny payment for services or assess fines and also have the authority to recommend to HHS that a provider which is in substantial noncompliance with the standards of the quality improvement organization be excluded from participation in the Medicare program. The Affordable Care Act potentially expands the use of prepayment review by Medicare contractors by eliminating statutory restrictions on their use, and, as a result, efforts to impose more stringent cost controls are expected to continue. Utilization review is also a requirement of most non-governmental managed care organizations and other third-party payors. Inpatient utilization, average lengths of stay and occupancy rates continue to be negatively affected by payor-required preadmission authorization and utilization review and by third party payor pressure to maximize outpatient and alternative healthcare delivery services for less acutely ill patients. Although we are unable to predict the effect these controls and changes will have on our operations, significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed and on reimbursement rates and fees could have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We may be subjected to actions brought by the government under anti-fraud and abuse provisions or by individuals on the government’s behalf under the False Claims Act’s “qui tam” or “whistleblower” provisions. The federal False Claims Act prohibits providers from, among other things, knowingly submitting false claims for payment to the federal government. The “qui tam” or “whistleblower” provisions of the False Claims Act allow private individuals to bring actions under the False Claims Act on behalf of the government. These private parties are entitled to share in any amounts recovered by the government, and, as a result, the number of “whistleblower” lawsuits that have been filed against providers has increased significantly in recent 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS years. Defendants found to be liable under the federal False Claims Act may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties ranging between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. The government has used the False Claims Act to prosecute Medicare and other government healthcare program fraud such as coding errors, billing for services not provided, submitting false cost reports, and providing care that is not medically necessary or that is substandard in quality. The Affordable Care Act also provides that claims submitted in connection with patient referrals that result from violations of the Anti-kickback Statute constitute false claims for the purposes of the federal False Claims Act, and some courts have held that a violation of the Stark law can result in False Claims Act liability, as well. In addition, a number of states have adopted their own false claims and whistleblower provisions whereby a private party may file a civil lawsuit in state court. We are required to provide information to our employees and certain contractors about state and federal false claims laws and whistleblower provisions and protections. Although we intend and will endeavor to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable federal and state fraud and abuse laws, many of these laws are broadly worded and may be interpreted or applied in ways that cannot be predicted. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our arrangements or business practices will not be subject to government scrutiny or be found to be in compliance with applicable fraud and abuse laws. The industry trend towards value-based purchasing may negatively impact our revenues. There is a trend in the healthcare industry toward value-based purchasing of healthcare services. These value-based purchasing programs include both public reporting of quality data and preventable adverse events tied to the quality and efficiency of care provided by facilities. Governmental programs including Medicare and Medicaid currently require hospitals to report certain quality data to receive full reimbursement updates. In addition, Medicare does not reimburse for care related to certain preventable adverse events. Many large commercial payors currently require hospitals to report quality data, and several commercial payors do not reimburse hospitals for certain preventable adverse events. The Affordable Care Act contains a number of provisions intended to promote value-based purchasing. The Affordable Care Act prohibits the use of federal funds under the Medicaid program to reimburse providers for medical assistance provided to treat HACs. Beginning in FFY 2015, hospitals that fall into the top 25% of national risk-adjusted HAC rates for all hospitals in the previous year will receive a 1% reduction in their total Medicare payments. Another provision reduces payments for all inpatient discharges for hospitals that experience excessive readmissions for certain conditions designated by HHS. The Affordable Care Act also requires HHS to implement a value-based purchasing program for inpatient hospital services. The Affordable Care Act requires HHS to reduce inpatient hospital payments for all discharges by a percentage beginning at 1% in FFY 2013 and increasing by 0.25% each fiscal year up to 2% in FFY 2017 and subsequent years. HHS will pool the amount collected from these reductions to fund payments to reward hospitals that meet or exceed certain quality performance standards established by HHS. HHS will determine the amount each hospital that meets or exceeds the quality performance standards will receive from the pool of dollars created by these payment reductions. We expect value-based purchasing programs, including programs that condition reimbursement on patient outcome measures, to become more common and to involve a higher percentage of reimbursement amounts. We are unable at this time to predict how this trend will affect our results of operations, but it could negatively impact our revenues. 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS The lingering effects of the economic recession could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The U.S. economy continues to experience the negative effects from an economic recession, and unemployment levels remain high. While certain healthcare spending is considered non-discretionary and may not be significantly impacted by economic downturns, other types of healthcare spending may be adversely impacted by such conditions. When patients are experiencing personal financial difficulties or have concerns about general economic conditions, they may choose: • to defer or forego elective surgeries and other non-emergent procedures, which are generally more profitable lines of business for hospitals; or • a high-deductible insurance plan or no insurance at all, which increases a hospital’s dependence on self-pay revenue. Moreover, a greater number of uninsured patients may seek care in our emergency rooms. We are unable to determine the specific impact of these economic conditions on our business at this time, but we believe that the lingering effects of the economic recession could have an adverse impact on our operations and could impact not only the healthcare decisions of our patients, but also the solvency of managed care providers and other counterparties to transactions with us. The failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain manufacturing and other facilities in our markets, can have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals. The economies in the non-urban communities in which our hospitals primarily operate are often dependent on a small number of large employers, especially manufacturing or other facilities. These employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals for care. The failure of one or more large employers, or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at manufacturing or other facilities located in or near many of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals primarily operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere for employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. The occurrence of these events may cause a material reduction in our revenues and results of operations or impede our business strategies intended to generate organic growth and improve operating results at our hospitals. We may have difficulty acquiring hospitals on favorable terms. One element of our business strategy is expansion through the acquisition of acute care hospitals primarily in non-urban markets. We face significant competition to acquire attractive hospitals, and we may not find suitable acquisitions on favorable terms. Our primary competitors for acquisitions have included for-profit and tax-exempt hospitals and hospital systems and privately capitalized start-up companies. Buyers with a strategic desire for any particular hospital — for example, a hospital located near existing hospitals or those who will realize economic synergies — have demonstrated an ability and willingness to pay premium prices for hospitals. Strategic buyers, as a result, can present a competitive barrier to our acquisition efforts. Given the increasingly challenging regulatory and enforcement environment, our ability to acquire hospitals could be negatively impacted if targets are found to have material unresolved compliance issues. We may condition our purchase on the resolution of such issues by reporting or refunding amounts under the voluntary self-disclosure protocols. We could experience delays in closing or fail to close transactions with targets that initially were attractive but became unattractive as a result of a poor compliance program, material non-compliance with laws or failure to timely address compliance risks. The cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital’s results of operations, allocation of purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limitations on rate increases. 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS Even if we are able to identify an attractive target, we may not be able to obtain financing, if necessary, for any acquisitions or joint ventures that we might make or may be required to borrow at higher rates and on less favorable terms. We may incur or assume additional indebtedness as a result of acquisitions. Our failure to acquire non-urban hospitals consistent with our growth plans could prevent us from increasing our revenues. In recent years, the legislatures and attorneys general of several states have become more interested in sales of hospitals by tax-exempt entities. This heightened scrutiny may increase the cost and difficulty, or prevent the completion, of transactions with tax-exempt organizations in the future. We may encounter difficulty operating, integrating and improving financial performance at acquired hospitals. We may be unable to timely and effectively integrate any hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. In the past, we have occasionally experienced temporary delays in improving the operating margins or effectively integrating the operations of our acquired hospitals and we may experience such delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly or future acquired hospitals. Integrating an acquired hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. In addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. We will rely heavily on HCA-Information Technology and Services, Inc. (“HCA-IT”) and other third parties for information systems integration as part of a contractual arrangement for information technology services. We may not be successful in causing HCA-IT and other third parties to convert our newly acquired hospitals’ information systems in a timely manner. In addition, we may not be able to achieve improved financial performance at acquired hospitals within our targeted time frames, or continue to improve financial performance for sustained periods following the acquisition which may result in our inability to achieve our growth strategy. We conduct a portion of our operations through joint venture entities, which may not be successful and which may expose us to risks and uncertainties. For financial or strategic reasons, we conduct a portion of our business through joint ventures. The largest of our joint ventures is Duke LifePoint Healthcare, a joint venture between the Company and a wholly-controlled affiliate of Duke. Generally, we are obligated to provide proportionate financial support for our joint ventures although our control of the business entity may not be proportionate to that financial support and may be subject to limitations. As a result, we generally have less flexibility to pursue our own objectives through joint ventures than we would through our wholly-owned subsidiaries. The long term success of our joint ventures is dependent on cooperation with our joint venture partners on development and operational activities. There is no assurance that our joint venture partners will continue their relationships with us in the future or that we will be able to achieve our financial or strategic objectives relating to the joint ventures and the markets in which they operate. Our joint venture partners may have business objectives that are inconsistent with ours, experience financial and other difficulties that may affect the success of the joint venture and we may disagree with our joint venture partners on the timing or nature of further investments in the joint venture. We may not be able to realize the operating efficiencies, cost savings or other benefits that we expect from our joint. In the event of a material disagreement with our joint venture partners or the breach of our joint venture agreements, our joint ventures may be subject to dissolution, unwinding or purchase of either party’s interest in the joint venture, which could have a material adverse effect on our prospects, business, financial condition or results of operations. If we do not effectively attract, recruit and retain qualified physicians, our ability to deliver healthcare services efficiently will be adversely affected. As a general matter, only physicians on our medical staffs may direct hospital admissions and the services ordered once a patient is admitted to a hospital. As a result, the success of our hospitals depends in 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS part on the number and quality of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals, the admitting practices of those physicians and maintaining good relations with those physicians. The success of our efforts to recruit and retain quality physicians depends on several factors, including the actual and perceived quality of services provided by our hospitals, our ability to meet demands for new technology and our ability to identify and communicate with physicians who want to practice in non-urban communities. In particular, we face intense competition in the recruitment and retention of specialists because of the difficulty in convincing these individuals of the benefits of practicing or remaining in practice in non-urban communities. If the non-urban communities in which our hospitals primarily operate are not seen as attractive, then we could experience difficulty attracting and retaining physicians to practice in our communities. We may not be able to recruit all of the physicians we target. In addition, we may incur increased malpractice expense if the quality of physicians we recruit does not meet our expectations. Additionally, our ability to recruit and employ physicians is closely regulated. For example, the types, amount and duration of compensation and assistance we can provide to recruited physicians are limited by the Stark law, the Anti-kickback Statute, state anti-kickback statutes, and related regulations. The Stark law requires, among other things, that recruitment assistance can only be provided to physicians who meet certain geographic and practice requirements, that the amount of assistance cannot be changed during the term of the recruitment agreement, and that the recruitment payments cannot generally benefit physicians currently in practice in the community beyond recruitment costs actually incurred by them. In addition to these legal requirements, there is competition from other communities and facilities for these physicians, and this competition continues after the physician is practicing in one of our communities. Factors related to our employment of physicians could affect our financial performance. In recent years, physician payment amounts have been determined on a year by year basis. For CY 2014, CMS issued a final rule that would have applied the SGR and resulted in an aggregate reduction of 20.1% to all physician payments under the PFS for CY 2014. The Pathways Act delays application of the SGR and applies a 0.5% increase in PFS rates through March 31, 2014. We cannot predict whether Congress will pass legislation, such as the SGR Repeal Act, to avert the proposed rate cut for the remainder of CY 2014 and/or otherwise adopt a permanent fix for the issues that are created by the application of the SGR. If the payment reduction contained in the proposed rule is not averted, the reimbursement received by us for services provided by our employed physicians, the physicians to whom our hospitals have provided recruitment assistance, and the physician members of our medical staffs would be adversely affected. We believe that physician employment by acute care hospitals has become more common as a result of actual and potential reductions in payment amounts for physician services. Our experience in employing physicians is consistent with industry trends. Employed physicians could present more direct risks to us than those presented by independent members of our hospitals’ medical staffs, as well as require us to incur additional expenses. The combination of reimbursement cuts, potential liabilities and increased expenses could have an adverse effect on our results of operations if current trends continue. Our hospitals face competition for staffing, which may increase labor costs and reduce profitability. In addition to our physicians, the operations of our hospitals are dependent on the efforts, abilities and experience of our management and medical support personnel, such as nurses, pharmacists and lab technicians. We compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and staff personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other non-physician healthcare professionals. In some markets, the scarce availability of nurses and other medical support personnel presents a significant operating issue. This shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel, recruit personnel from foreign countries, and hire more expensive temporary or contract personnel. In addition, the states in which we operate could adopt mandatory nurse-staffing ratios or could reduce mandatory nurse staffing ratios already in place. State-mandated nurse-staffing ratios could significantly affect labor costs and have an adverse impact on revenues if we are required to limit admissions in order to meet the required ratios. If our labor costs increase, we may not be able to raise rates to offset these increased costs. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. Because a significant percentage of our revenue consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS costs is constrained. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control our labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. The loss of certain physicians can have a disproportionate impact on certain of our hospitals. Generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. The loss of one or more of these physicians — even if temporary — could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians. If our access to licensed information systems is interrupted or restricted, or if we are not able to integrate changes to our existing information systems or information systems of acquired hospitals, our operations could suffer. Our business depends significantly on effective information systems to process clinical and financial information. Information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology. We rely heavily on HCA-IT, for information systems. HCA-IT provides us with financial, clinical, patient accounting and network information services. The primary business of HCA-IT’s parent company is to own and operate hospitals, not to provide information systems. We do not control HCA-IT’s systems. If these systems fail or are interrupted, if our access to these systems is limited in the future or if HCA-IT develops systems more appropriate for the urban healthcare market and not suited for our hospitals, our operations could suffer. Our existing contract with HCA-IT, expires on December 31, 2021 (including a wind-down period) unless extended by the parties. System conversions are costly, time consuming and disruptive for physicians and employees. Some of our hospitals have recently converted or are currently converting from the system provided by HCA-IT to another third party information system. Implementation of such conversions are very costly and, if such conversions occurred on a large scale, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, as new information systems are developed in the future, we will need to integrate them into our existing systems. Evolving industry and regulatory standards, such as HIPAA and meaningful use regulations, may require changes to our information systems in the future. We may not be able to integrate new systems or changes required to our existing systems or systems of acquired hospitals in the future effectively or on a cost-efficient basis. We are subject to risks associated with outsourcing functions to third parties. To improve operating margins, productivity and efficiency, we outsource selected nonclinical business functions to third parties. We take steps to monitor and regulate the performance of independent third parties to whom the Company delegates selected functions, including revenue cycle management, patient access, billing, cash collections, payment compliance and support services, project implementation, supply chain management and payroll services. Arrangements with third party service providers may make our operations vulnerable if vendors fail to satisfy their obligations to us as a result of their performance, changes in their own operations, financial condition, or other matters outside of our control. The expanding role of third party providers may also require changes to our existing operations and the adoption of new procedures and processes for retaining and managing these providers, as well as redistributing responsibilities as needed, in order to realize the potential productivity and operational efficiencies. Effective management, development and implementation of our outsourcing strategies are important to our business and strategy. If there are delays or difficulties in enhancing business processes or our third party providers do not perform as anticipated, we may not fully realize on a timely basis the anticipated economic and other benefits of the outsourcing projects or other relationships we enter into with key vendors, which could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention from other strategic activities, negatively affect employee morale or create other operational or financial problems for us. 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS Terminating or transitioning arrangements with key vendors could result in additional costs and a risk of operational delays, potential errors and possible control issues as a result of the termination or during the transition phase. If we fail to effectively and timely implement electronic health record systems, our operations could be adversely affected. As required by ARRA, the Secretary of HHS has developed and implemented an incentive payment program for eligible hospitals and healthcare professionals that adopt and meaningfully use EHR technology. HHS uses the Provider Enrollment, Chain and Ownership System (“PECOS”) to verify Medicare enrollment prior to making EHR incentive program payments. If our hospitals and employed professionals are unable to meet the requirements for participation in the incentive payment program, including having an enrollment record in PECOS, we will not be eligible to receive incentive payments that could offset some of the costs of implementing EHR systems. Further, beginning in FFY 2015, eligible hospitals and professionals that fail to demonstrate meaningful use of certified EHR technology will be subject to reduced payments from Medicare. System conversions to comply with EHR could be time consuming and disruptive for physicians and employees. Failure to implement EHR systems effectively and in a timely manner could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are in process of converting certain of our clinical and patient accounting information system applications to newer versions of existing applications or all together new applications at several of our facilities. In connection with our implementations and conversions, we have incurred significant capitalized costs and additional training and implementation expenses. In addition, EHR incentive payments previously recognized are subject to audit and potential recoupment if it is determined that we did not meet the applicable meaningful use standards required in connection with such incentive payments. We are subject to potential legal and reputational risk as a result of our access to personal information of our patients. There are numerous federal and state laws and regulations addressing patient and consumer privacy concerns, including unauthorized access to or theft of personal information. In the ordinary course of our business, we, and vendors on our behalf, collect and store sensitive data, including personal health data and other personally identifiable information of our patients. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information are critical to our operations and business strategy. We have developed a comprehensive set of policies and procedures in our efforts to comply with HIPAA and other privacy and information security laws. The HHS Office for Civil Rights has imposed civil monetary penalties and corrective action plans on covered entities for violating HIPAA’s privacy and security rules. In addition, state attorneys general have brought civil actions seeking injunctions and damages in response to violations of HIPAA’s privacy and security rules. If, in spite of our compliance efforts we or any of our business associates were to experience a breach, loss, or other compromise of such personal health information, such event could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, result in regulatory penalties, legal claims and liability under HIPAA and other state and federal laws, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we acquire hospitals with unknown or contingent liabilities, we could become liable for material obligations. Businesses we have acquired, or businesses we may acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, worker’s compensation liabilities, previous tax liabilities and unacceptable business practices. Although we endeavor to continue to obtain contractual indemnification from sellers covering these matters, any indemnification obtained from sellers may be insufficient to cover material claims or liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS Other hospitals and outpatient facilities provide services similar to those which we offer. In addition, physicians provide services in their offices that could be provided in our hospitals. These factors increase the level of competition we face and may therefore adversely affect our revenues, profitability and market share. Competition among hospitals and other healthcare service providers, including outpatient facilities, has intensified in recent years. We compete with other hospitals, including larger tertiary care centers located in larger metropolitan areas, and with physicians who provide services in their offices which could otherwise be provided in our hospitals. Although the hospitals with which we compete may be a significant distance away from our facilities, patients in our markets may migrate on their own to, may be referred by local physicians to, or may be encouraged by their health plan to travel to these hospitals. Furthermore, some of the hospitals with which we compete may offer more or different services than those available at our hospitals, may have more advanced equipment or may have a medical staff that is thought to be better qualified. Also, some of the hospitals that compete with our facilities are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or not-for-profit entities supported by endowments and charitable contributions. These hospitals, in most instances, are also exempt from paying sales, property and income taxes. Quality of care and value-based purchasing have also become significant trends and competitive factors in the healthcare industry. In 2005, CMS began making public performance data relating to ten quality measures that hospitals submit in connection with their Medicare reimbursement. Since that time, CMS has on several occasions increased the number of quality measures hospitals are required to report in order to receive the full IPPS and OPPS market basket updates. In addition, the Medicare program no longer reimburses hospitals for care relating to certain preventable adverse events, and many private healthcare payors have adopted similar policies. If the public performance data become a primary factor in where patients choose to receive care, and if competing hospitals have better results than our hospitals on those measures, we would expect that our revenues and/or patient volumes could decline. We also face very significant and increasing competition from services offered by physicians (including physicians on our medical staffs) in their offices and from other specialized care providers, including outpatient surgery, oncology, physical therapy and diagnostic centers (including many in which physicians may have an ownership interest). Some of our hospitals have and will seek to develop outpatient facilities where necessary to compete effectively. However, to the extent that other providers are successful in developing outpatient facilities or physicians are able to offer additional, advanced services in their offices, our market share for these services will likely decrease in the future. Our revenues are especially concentrated in a small number of states which will make us particularly sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in those states. Our revenues are particularly sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in states in which we generate the majority of our revenues including Kentucky, Virginia, Tennessee, Michigan, New Mexico, West Virginia, Arizona and Louisiana. The following table contains our revenues and revenues as a percentage of our total revenues by state for each of these states for the years presented (dollars in millions): Hospital Campuses in State as of December 31, 2013 Revenue Concentration by State 2013 2012 2011 Amount % of Revenues Amount % of Revenues Amount % of Revenues Kentucky 9 $ 520.9 14.2 % $ 510.9 15.1 % $ 501.5 16.6 % Virginia 6 469.2 12.8 413.6 12.2 369.0 12.2 Tennessee 10 394.9 10.7 375.3 11.1 345.1 11.4 Michigan 3 345.4 9.4 103.9 3.1 — — New Mexico 2 256.5 7.0 299.6 8.8 291.3 9.6 West Virginia 2 245.9 6.7 266.2 7.8 252.1 8.3 Arizona 2 214.7 5.8 204.4 6.0 199.1 6.6 Louisiana 5 192.8 5.2 206.1 6.1 195.4 6.5 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS Accordingly, any change in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in the above-mentioned states could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. Medicaid changes in these states could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets may be adversely affected. Technological advances, including with respect to computer-assisted tomography scanner (CTs), magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs) and positron emission tomography scanner (PETs) equipment, continue to evolve. In addition, the manufacturers of such equipment often provide incentives to try to increase their sales, including providing favorable financing to higher credit risk organizations. In an effort to compete, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade our equipment as a result of technological improvements. We believe that the direction of the patient flow correlates directly to the level and intensity of such diagnostic equipment. We may be subject to liabilities because of malpractice and related legal claims brought against our hospitals or healthcare providers associated with, or employed by, our hospitals or affiliated entities. If we become subject to these claims, we could be required to pay significant damages, which may not be covered by insurance. We may be subject to medical malpractice lawsuits and other legal actions arising out of the operations of our owned and leased hospitals and the activities of our employed physicians. In addition, we may also be subject to lawsuits and other legal actions arising out of the activities of physicians who are not employees but are members of our hospitals’ medical staffs even though our ability to control the activities of those physicians involved may be limited. These actions may involve large claims and significant defense costs. In an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. Amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. We maintain professional and general liability insurance with unrelated commercial insurance carriers to provide for losses in excess of our SIR amount. As a result, one or more successful claims against us that are within our SIR amounts could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or liquidity. Also, some of these claims could exceed the scope of the coverage in effect, or coverage of particular claims could be denied. In addition, we operate a wholly-owned captive insurance company under the name Point of Life Indemnity, Ltd., which, issues malpractice insurance policies to our employed physicians. Insurance coverage in the future may not continue to be available at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of insurance with acceptable SIR level amounts. One or more of our insurance carriers may become insolvent and unable to fulfill its obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us when that obligation becomes due. In addition, physicians using our hospitals may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms, which could result in these physicians not being able to meet the minimum insurance requirements in the applicable hospital medical staff bylaws or necessitate a reduction in the level of insurance required to be carried under such bylaws. We have substantial indebtedness, and we may incur significant amounts of additional indebtedness in the future which could affect our ability to finance operations and capital expenditures, pursue desirable business opportunities or successfully operate our business in the future. As of December 31, 2013, our total debt, excluding unamortized discounts, was $2,386.3 million. We also have the ability to incur significant amounts of additional indebtedness, subject to the conditions imposed by the terms of the agreements and indentures governing our existing indebtedness or any additional indebtedness that we may incur in the future. Our senior secured credit agreement with, among others, Citibank, N.A. (“Citibank”), as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto (the “Senior Credit Agreement”) provides for a $350.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Facility”), net of outstanding letters of credit. As of December 31, 2013, amounts available for borrowing under the Revolving Facility were $329.2 million. Additionally, the Senior Credit Agreement may, subject to certain conditions and to receipt of commitments from new or existing lenders, be increased up to a total of 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS (i) $800.0 million and (ii) an amount such that, after giving pro forma effect to such increase and to the use of proceeds therefrom, our secured leverage ratio does not exceed 3.50:1.00; provided that no lender is obligated to participate in any such increase. Furthermore, we are currently working to secure financing to repay our borrowings outstanding under the 3½% convertible senior subordinates notes due May 15, 2014 (the “3½% Notes”) on or before such date. There can be no assurance that we will complete such financing on favorable terms or at all. Although we believe that our future operating cash flow, together with available financing arrangements, will be sufficient to fund our operating requirements, our leverage and debt service obligations could have important consequences, including the following: • Under the Senior Credit Agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and tests. Failure to comply with these obligations may cause an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could require us to repay substantial indebtedness immediately. Moreover, if debt repayment is accelerated, we will be subject to higher interest rates on our debt obligations as a result of these covenants, and our credit ratings may be adversely impacted. • We may be vulnerable in the event of downturns and adverse changes in the general economy or our industry. Specific examples of industry changes that could have an adverse impact on our cash flow include the implementation by the government of further limitations on reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid. • We may have difficulty obtaining additional financing at favorable interest rates to meet our requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes. • We will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of funds available for operations, capital expenditures and future acquisitions. • Any borrowings we incur at variable interest rates generally expose us to increases in interest rates. • A breach of any of the restrictions or covenants in our debt agreements could cause a cross-default under other debt agreements. We may be required to pay our indebtedness immediately if we default on any of the numerous financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the debt agreements. It is not certain whether we will have, or will be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. If any senior debt is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness and our other indebtedness. • In the event of a default, we may be forced to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking additional equity capital. There can be no assurances that any of these strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that sufficient funds could be obtained to make these accelerated payments. Covenant restrictions under certain of our debt agreements and indentures impose operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to operate our business and to make payments on the notes and other outstanding indebtedness. The Senior Credit Agreement and indentures contain covenants that restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to take advantage of other business opportunities that may be in our interest or to satisfy our obligations under the notes. These covenants restrict our ability to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt or extend credit; • pay dividends or make distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, our capital stock or certain other debt; • make other restricted payments, including investments; • dispose of assets; 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS • engage in transactions with affiliates; • enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; • create liens on our assets or engage in sale/leaseback transactions; and • effect a consolidation or merger, or sell, transfer, lease all or substantially all of our assets. The limitations in the Senior Credit Agreement, our indentures or other instruments governing indebtedness that we may incur in the future may restrict our ability to repay our existing outstanding indebtedness. The exceptions to the covenants in our indentures may allow us to refinance subordinated indebtedness (including the 3½% Notes) with senior indebtedness. The 3½% Notes mature on May 15, 2014, and we are currently working to secure financing to repay our existing 3½% Notes on or before such date. There can be no assurance that we will complete such financing on favorable terms or at all. Subject to certain conditions, holders of the 3½% Notes may convert their securities for cash, and if applicable, shares in common stock prior to the maturation of the notes offered hereby. Failure to repay the 3½% Notes upon maturity or upon conversion of the securities may result in a default. The provisions of our indentures may also allow us to refinance indebtedness that is subordinated in right of payment to the notes (including the 3½% Notes) with indebtedness that would rank pari passu with the notes or otherwise repay such subordinated indebtedness with cash. As of December 31, 2013, we had an aggregate amount of $575.0 million of subordinated indebtedness outstanding, excluding the unamortized discount on the 3½% Notes. Our revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control. Our revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians’ clinical decisions and availability, payor programs shifting to a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, including the effects of extreme low temperatures, hurricanes and tornados, earthquakes, current local economic and demographic changes, and the intensity and timing of yearly flu outbreaks. In addition, technological developments and pharmaceutical improvements may reduce the demand for healthcare services or the profitability of the services we offer. If our fair value declines or if our estimated future cash flows decrease, a material non-cash charge to earnings from impairment of our goodwill or our long-lived assets could result. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $1,651.0 million of goodwill and approximately $2,197.2 million of long-lived assets, net of accumulated depreciation. We expect to recover the carrying values of both our goodwill as well as our long-lived assets through our future cash flows. We evaluate the carrying value of our goodwill at least annually, based on our fair value, to determine whether it is impaired. We evaluate our long-lived assets for possible impairment whenever circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset, or related group of assets, may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. If the carrying value of our goodwill or our long-lived assets is impaired, we may incur a material non-cash charge to earnings. Certificate of need laws and regulations regarding licenses, ownership and operation may impair our future expansion in some states. Some states require prior approval for the purchase, construction and expansion of healthcare facilities, based on the state’s determination of need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. Twelve states in which we operate hospitals require a certificate of need for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in bed capacity or services, and for certain other planned activities. We may not be able to obtain certificates of need required for expansion activities in the future. In addition, all of the states in which we operate facilities require hospitals and most healthcare providers to maintain one or more licenses. If we fail to obtain any required certificate of need or license, our ability to operate or expand operations in those states could be impaired. 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS In states without certificate of need laws, competing providers of healthcare services are able to expand and construct facilities without the need for significant regulatory approval. In the eight states in which we operate that do not require certificates of need for the purchase, construction and expansion of healthcare facilities or services, competing healthcare providers face low barriers to entry and expansion. If competing providers of healthcare services are able to purchase, construct or expand healthcare facilities without the need for regulatory approval, we may face decreased market share and revenues in those markets. Different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the SEC. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile; any significant decline may result in litigation. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. This may result in stockholder lawsuits, which could divert management’s time away from operations and could result in higher legal fees and proxy costs. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to the results or our operations and to a number of events and factors, including: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results, particularly if they differ from investors’ expectations; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in government regulations including those relating to reimbursement and operational policies and procedures; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; • changes in overall economic factors in our markets; • news reports relating to trends or events in our markets; and • issues associated with integration of the hospitals that we acquire. Broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. As a result of the above factors, we could be subjected to potential stockholder lawsuits. Such lawsuits are time consuming and expensive. Among other things, such lawsuits divert management’s time and attention from operations. Such lawsuits also force us to incur substantial legal fees and proxy costs in defending our position. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved SEC staff comments. 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS 