ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following risk factors could materially affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, including overall economic and industry conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are not material also may impair our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We have had a history of losses, and we may be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. We have experienced net losses in each year since our inception, except for the year ended December 31, 2010. We experienced net losses of $20.9 million, $8.1 million, and $1.4 million in 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. At December 31, 2013, our accumulated deficit was $97.6 million and total stockholders’ equity was $259.6 million. We expect to incur operating losses as a result of expenses associated with the continued development and expansion of our business. Our expenses include sales and marketing, research and development and other costs relating to the development, marketing and sale of our solution and consulting services that may not generate revenue until later periods, if at all. Any failure to increase revenue or manage our cost structure as we implement initiatives to grow our business could prevent us from achieving or sustaining profitability. In addition, our ability to achieve profitability is subject to a number of the risks and uncertainties discussed below, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot be certain that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have been in existence since 2004, and much of our growth has occurred in recent periods. Our limited operating history may make it difficult for you to evaluate our current business and our future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, including increasing and unforeseen expenses as we continue to grow our business. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our business will be harmed. We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. The loss of a key customer or the significant reduction of business from one of our largest customers could significantly reduce our revenue. We have derived, and we believe that we will continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2013, our ten largest customers by revenue accounted for an aggregate of approximately 28% of our revenue. If we were to lose one or more of our key customers, there is no assurance that we would be able to replace such customers with new customers that generate comparable revenue, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to sell our digital commerce solutions to a limited number of prospective customers. Any revenue growth will depend on our success in growing our customers’ online revenue processed on our platform and expanding our customer base to include additional customers. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches. Our business involves the storage and transmission of our customers’ and our customers’ consumers’ proprietary information, including financial information, such as payment card information, and other personally 18 Table of Contents identifiable information. Recently, certain prominent retail companies have disclosed breaches of their security resulting from sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their websites or infrastructure. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable, deny, disrupt, destroy or degrade services or systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Our systems may also be vulnerable to computer viruses or other malware, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, and certain of our customers have experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks that have, in certain instances, made all or portions of certain customers’ websites unavailable for periods of time. In addition, online consumers have been and will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails that may lead to the misappropriation of user names, passwords, payment card numbers, or other sensitive information or to the introduction of computer viruses or other malware to users’ computers. Data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, such as, malicious actions by a disgruntled employee or former employee or contractor. We rely on encryption and authentication technology from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including consumer payment card numbers. Such technology may not be sufficient to protect the transmission of such confidential information or these technologies may have material defects that may compromise the confidentiality or integrity of the transmitted data. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures or the security measures of our third party vendors could misappropriate our, our customers’ or our customers’ consumers’ proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our customers or our customers’ consumers, alter sensitive information or system configurations, or otherwise damage our reputation. Security breaches and related malicious acts could cause us to incur substantial costs and encounter loss of customer confidence, which could materially adversely affect our reputation and results of operations or cause material harm to our business. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, public perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed resulting in damage to our reputation and loss of current or prospective customers. There may be vulnerabilities in our systems that result in significant threats that we cannot mitigate. Such vulnerabilities may lead to sustained heightened exposure of breach or may require us to disable service for an extended period of time. Also any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, trigger disclosure obligations, and expose us to significant legal and financial exposure. Further, we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues may become more difficult and costly as we expand our operations and the services and features that we provide to our customers. Our insurance policies coverage limits may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. If we fail to manage our cloud-based hosting network infrastructure capacity, our existing customers may experience service outages and our new customers may experience delays in the deployment of our digital commerce solutions. We have experienced significant growth in the number of users, transactions and data that our hosting infrastructure supports. We seek to maintain sufficient excess capacity in our cloud-based hosting network infrastructure to meet the needs of all of our customers. We also seek to maintain excess capacity to facilitate the rapid provision of new customer deployments and the expansion of existing customer deployments. However, the provision of new hosting infrastructure requires significant lead time. If we do not accurately predict our infrastructure capacity requirements, particularly in the fourth quarter when we might experience significant increases in traffic on our customers’ digital commerce sites, our customers could experience service outages that may subject us to financial penalties and financial liabilities and result in customer losses. If our hosting infrastructure capacity fails to keep pace with increased sales, customers may experience delays as we seek to obtain additional capacity, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our revenue growth. 19 Table of Contents We use a limited number of data centers to deliver our services. Any disruption of service at these facilities could harm our business. We manage our services and serve all of our customers from a limited number of third-party data center facilities. While we engineer and architect the actual computer and storage systems upon which our platform runs, which we call our grid computing points of delivery, or PODs, and deploy them to the data center facilities, we do not control the operation of these data center facilities. The owners of our data facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to transfer to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. Any changes in third-party service levels at our data centers or any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits to customers, subject us to potential liability, and cause customers to terminate their subscriptions or harm our renewal rates. Our data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, intentional bad acts, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, war, terrorist attacks, power losses, hardware failures, systems failures, telecommunications failures and similar events. At least one of our data facilities is located in an area known for seismic activity, increasing our susceptibility to the risk that an earthquake could significantly harm the operations of these facilities. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, or vandalism or other misconduct, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We recognize revenue from customer subscriptions over the term of the subscription agreement and, therefore, a significant downturn in our business may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We recognize revenue from subscription agreements monthly over the terms of these agreements, which is typically three years. As a result, a significant portion of the revenue we report in each quarter is generated from customer agreements entered into during previous periods. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter may not impact our financial performance in that quarter, but might negatively affect our revenue in future quarters. If a number of contracts expire and are not renewed in the same quarter, our revenue may decline significantly in that quarter and subsequent quarters. In addition, we may be unable to adjust our fixed costs in response to reduced revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant declines in sales or renewals and market acceptance of our solutions may not be reflected in our short-term results of operations. Our business is substantially dependent upon the continued growth of the market for cloud-based software solutions. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, substantially all of our revenue from the sale of our cloud-based digital commerce solutions. As a result, widespread acceptance and use of the on-demand business model is critical to our future growth and success. Under the perpetual or periodic license model for software procurement, users of the software would typically run the applications on their hardware. Because many companies are generally predisposed to maintaining control of their information technology, or IT, systems and infrastructure, there may be resistance to the concept of accessing software functionality as a service provided by a third party. In addition, the market for cloud-based software solutions is still evolving, and competitive dynamics may cause pricing levels to change, as the market matures and as existing and new market participants introduce new types of solutions and different approaches to enable organizations to address their digital commerce needs. As a result, we may be forced to reduce the prices we charge for our solutions and may be unable to renew existing customer agreements or enter into new customer agreements at the same prices and upon the same terms as we have historically. If the market for cloud-based software solutions fails to grow, 20 Table of Contents grows more slowly than we currently anticipate or evolves and forces us to reduce the prices we charge for our solutions, demand for our solutions and our revenue, gross margin and other operating results could be materially adversely affected. We rely on a variable pricing model and any change in that model could adversely affect our financial results. We have adopted a variable pricing model whereby we participate in a share of our customers’ gross revenue processed on our platform. This pricing model aligns our interests with those of our customers and requires us to expand our processing and support infrastructure as activity on our customers’ digital commerce sites increases. All of our customer contracts are based on a variable pricing model. If customers were to demand a fixed pricing model that did not provide for variability based on their level of usage of our platform, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our lengthy sales and implementation cycles make it difficult to predict our future revenue and causes variability in our operating results. Our sales cycle can vary substantially from customer to customer, but typically requires six to nine months depending on the size and complexity of the opportunity. From the time a new contract is signed, approximately six months are typically required to implement and launch a digital commerce site for a new customer. A number of factors influence the length and variability of our sales and implementation cycles, including, for example: • the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our solutions; • the relatively long duration of the commitment customers make in their agreements with us; • the nature of potential customers’ purchasing and budget cycles and decisions; • the competitive nature of potential customers’ evaluation and purchasing processes; • evolving digital commerce needs and functionality demands of potential customers; • announcements or planned introductions of new products by us or our competitors; and • lengthy purchasing approval processes of potential customers. Lengthy sales and implementation cycles make it difficult to predict the quarter in which revenue from a new customer may first be recognized. We may incur significant sales and marketing expenses in anticipation of selling our products, and if we do not achieve the level of revenue we expected, our operating results will suffer and our stock price may decline. Further, our potential customers frequently need to obtain approvals from multiple decision makers before making purchase decisions. Delays in our sales or implementation cycles could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. If we are unable to retain our existing customers, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. We sell our solutions pursuant to agreements that are approximately three years in duration. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after their subscription period expires, and these subscriptions may not be renewed on the same or on more profitable terms. As a result, our ability to grow depends in part on subscription renewals. We may not be able to accurately predict future trends in customer renewals, and our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services, the cost of our services and the cost of services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services or renew on less favorable terms, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our profitability and gross margins may be harmed. 21 Table of Contents Our business and operations have experienced rapid growth and organizational change in recent periods, which has placed, and may continue to place, significant demands on our management and infrastructure. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or address competitive challenges adequately. Our growth has placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We intend to further expand our overall business, customer base, headcount and operations both domestically and internationally, with no assurance that our business or revenue will continue to grow. Creating a global organization and managing a geographically dispersed workforce will require substantial management effort, the allocation of valuable management resources and significant additional investment in our infrastructure. We will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures and we may not be able to do so effectively. As such, we may be unable to manage our expenses effectively in the future, which may negatively impact our gross margins or operating expenses in any particular quarter. If we fail to manage our anticipated growth and change in a manner that preserves the key aspects of our corporate culture, the quality of our solutions may suffer, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation and harm our ability to retain and attract customers. Failure to effectively maintain and expand our direct sales teams and develop and expand our indirect sales channel will impede our growth. We will need to continue to expand our sales and marketing infrastructure in order to grow our customer base and our business. Identifying, recruiting and training these sales and marketing personnel will require significant time, expense and attention. Our business will be seriously harmed and our financial resources will be wasted if our efforts to expand our direct and indirect sales channels do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue. In particular, if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel or if our new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve expected productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, we may not be able to significantly increase our revenue and grow our business. The seasonality of our business creates variance in our quarterly revenue. Our customers are retailers and branded manufacturers that typically realize a significant portion of their online sales in the fourth quarter of each year, specifically during the holiday season. As a result of this seasonal variation, our subscription revenue fluctuates, with additional fees in excess of committed annual levels, called overage fees, being higher in the fourth quarter than in other quarters and with revenue generally declining in the first quarter sequentially from the fourth quarter. We are dependent upon consumers’ willingness to use the internet for commerce. Our success depends upon the general public’s continued willingness to use the internet, whether through a computer, smart phone or tablet, as a means to purchase goods, communicate, and conduct and research commercial transactions. If consumers became unwilling or less willing to use the internet for commerce for any reason, including lack of access to high-speed communications equipment, congestion of traffic on the internet, internet outages or delays, disruptions or other damage to users’ computers, smart phones or tablets, increases in the cost of accessing the internet and security and privacy risks or the perception of such risks, our business could be materially adversely affected. Even if demand for digital commerce products and services increases generally, there is no guarantee that demand for cloud-based solutions like ours will increase to a corresponding degree. For our customers and potential customers to be willing to invest in our digital commerce solutions, the internet must continue to be accepted and widely used for commerce and communication. If digital commerce does not grow or grows more slowly than expected, then our future revenue and profits may not meet our expectations or those of analysts. The widespread adoption of our solutions depends not only on strong demand 22 Table of Contents for digital commerce products and services generally, but also for products and services delivered via a cloud-based business model in particular. Many companies continue to rely primarily or exclusively on traditional means of commerce that are not internet-based and may be reluctant to change their patterns of commerce. Even if such companies do adopt digital commerce solutions, it is unclear whether they will desire digital commerce solutions like ours. As a result, we cannot assure you that our cloud-based digital commerce solutions will achieve and sustain the high level of market acceptance that is critical for the future success of our business. If we fail to develop our brand cost-effectively, our business may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future solutions and is an important element in attracting new customers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market increases. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful services at competitive prices. In the past, our efforts to build our brand have involved significant expenses. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incurred in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and our business could suffer. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. We face intense competition in the market for digital commerce applications and services, and we expect competition to intensify in the future. We have competitors with longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. Increased competition may result in reduced pricing for our solutions, longer sales cycles or a decrease of our market share, any of which could negatively affect our revenue and future operating results and our ability to grow our business. A number of competitive factors could cause us to lose potential sales or to sell our solutions at lower prices or at reduced margins, including, among others: • Potential customers may choose to develop digital commerce applications in-house, rather than paying for our solutions; • Some of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing and technical resources than we do, allowing them to leverage a larger installed customer base and distribution network, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and offer more attractive sales terms, adapt more quickly to new technologies and changes in customer requirements, and devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their products and services than we can; • Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to enhance their products and expand their markets, and consolidation in our industry is likely to intensify. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share; • Current and potential competitors may offer software that addresses one, or a limited number, of digital commerce functions at a lower price point or with greater depth than our solutions; and • Software vendors could bundle digital commerce solutions or offer such products at a lower price as part of a larger product sale. We cannot ensure that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. In addition, competition may intensify as our competitors enter into business combinations or alliances or raise additional capital and established companies in other market segments or geographic markets expand into our 23 Table of Contents market segments or geographic markets. If we cannot compete successfully against our competitors, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Mergers of or other strategic transactions by our competitors or our customers could weaken our competitive position or reduce our revenue. If one or more of our competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Our competitors may also establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future strategic distributors, systems integrators, third-party consulting firms or other parties with whom we have relationships, thereby limiting our ability to promote our solutions and limiting the number of consultants available to implement our solutions. In addition, we may lose customers that merge with or are acquired by companies using a competitor’s or an internally developed solution. Disruptions in our business caused by these events could reduce our revenue. Our growth depends in part on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. We anticipate that we will continue to depend on various third-party relationships in order to grow our business. In addition to growing our indirect sales channels, we intend to pursue additional relationships with other third parties, such as technology and content providers and implementation consultants. Identifying, negotiating and documenting relationships with third parties require significant time and resources as does integrating third-party content and technology. Some of the third parties that sell our solutions have the direct contractual relationships with our ultimate end-user customers, and therefore we risk the loss of such customers if the third parties fail to perform their obligations. If the performance of our third party partners is not well received by our customers, our brand and reputation could be negatively affected. Our agreements with distributors and providers of technology, content and consulting services are typically non-exclusive, do not prohibit them from working with our competitors or from offering competing services and may not have minimum purchase commitments. Our competitors may be effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services or to prevent or reduce subscriptions to our solutions. In addition, these distributors and providers may not perform as expected under our agreements, and we have had, and may in the future have, disagreements or disputes with such distributors and providers, which could negatively affect our brand and reputation. A global economic slowdown could also adversely affect the businesses of our distributors, and it is possible that they may not be able to devote the resources we expect to the relationship. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with certain of these third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenue could be impaired and our operating results would suffer. Even if we are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in improved operating results. We could incur substantial costs as a result of any claim of infringement of another party’s intellectual property rights. In recent years, there has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights. Companies providing internet-related products and services are increasingly bringing and becoming subject to suits alleging infringement of proprietary rights, particularly patent rights. These risks have been amplified by the increase in third parties, which we refer to as non-practicing entities, whose sole primary business is to assert such claims. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending any intellectual property litigation. If we sue to enforce our rights or are sued by a third party that claims that our technology infringes its rights, the litigation could be expensive and could divert our management resources. We have received direct demands from such third party entities claiming infringement of patents owned by them. In addition, in most instances, we have agreed to indemnify our customers against certain claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties. We have received indemnification requests from many customers that have received letters from, or been sued by, non-practicing entities claiming infringement of 24 Table of Contents patents owned by them. Many of those underlying claims, and the extent, if any, of our indemnification obligations, have not yet been resolved. Some of these patents are the subject of pending legal proceedings between the patent owners and one or more major companies engaged in digital commerce, and the outcome of those proceedings could affect the extent to which the patent owners seek to prosecute claims against us or our customers. Also, because the patent owners have asserted the same patents against multiple customers, an adverse resolution in the case of one customer could lead to adverse resolutions in the cases of other customers and such claims could potentially lead to greater exposure for us than for any single customer. Our business could be adversely affected by any significant disputes between us and our customers as to the applicability or scope of our indemnification obligations to them. The results of any intellectual property litigation to which we might become a party, or for which we are required to provide indemnification, may require us to do one or more of the following: • cease selling or using products or services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • make substantial payments for legal fees, settlement payments or other costs or damages; • obtain a license, which may not be available on reasonable terms, to sell or use the relevant technology; or • redesign those products or services to avoid infringement. If we are required to make substantial payments or undertake any of the other actions noted above as a result of any intellectual property infringement claims against us or any obligation to indemnify our customers for such claims, such payments or costs could have a material adverse effect upon our business and financial results. We could incur substantial costs in protecting our intellectual property from infringement, and any failure to protect our intellectual property could impair our business. We seek to protect the source code for our proprietary software under a combination of patent, copyright and trade secrets law. However, because we make some of the source code available to some customers, third parties may be more likely to misappropriate it. Our policy is to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors and customers and to control access to our software, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these precautions, it may be possible for someone to copy our software or other proprietary information without authorization or to develop similar software independently. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and while we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software exists, we expect software piracy to be a persistent problem. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Such litigation could be costly, time-consuming and distracting to management, result in a diversion of resources, the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. These steps may be inadequate to protect our intellectual property. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our licensed products may be unenforceable under the laws of certain jurisdictions and foreign countries. Further, the laws of some countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information may increase. 25 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. If we fail to meaningfully protect our intellectual property, then our business, brand, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. If our software products contain serious errors or defects, then we may lose revenue and market acceptance and may incur costs to defend or settle product liability claims. Complex software applications such as ours often contain errors or defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Despite internal testing and testing by our customers, our current and future products may contain serious defects, which could result in lost revenue or a delay in market acceptance. Since our customers use our products for critical business applications, namely digital commerce, errors, defects or other performance problems could result in damage to our customers. They could seek significant compensation from us for the losses they suffer. Although our customer agreements typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitations. Even if not successful, a product liability claim brought against us would likely be time-consuming and costly and could seriously damage our reputation in the marketplace, making it harder for us to sell our products. Government and industry regulation of the internet is evolving and could directly restrict our business or indirectly affect our business by limiting the growth of digital commerce. Unfavorable changes in government regulation or our failure to comply with regulations could harm our business and operating results. As digital commerce evolves, federal, state and foreign agencies have adopted and could in the future adopt regulations covering issues such as user privacy, content, data protection and breach notification and taxation of products and services. Government regulations could limit the market for our products and services or impose burdensome requirements that render our business unprofitable. Our digital commerce solutions enable our customers to collect, manage and store a wide range of consumer data. The United States and various state governments have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution and use of personal information. Several foreign jurisdictions, including member states of the European Union, have adopted legislation (including directives or regulations) that increase or change the requirements governing data collection and storage in these jurisdictions. If our privacy or data security measures fail to comply with current or future laws and regulations, we may be subject to litigation, regulatory investigations or other liabilities, or our customers may terminate their relationships with us. In addition, although many regulations might not apply to our business directly, we expect that laws regulating the solicitation, collection or processing of personal and consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for our services. The Telecommunications Act of 1996 prohibits certain types of information and content from being transmitted over the internet. The prohibition’s scope and the liability associated with a violation are currently unsettled. In addition, although substantial portions of the Communications Decency Act of 1996 were held to be unconstitutional, we cannot be certain that similar legislation will not be enacted and upheld in the future. It is possible that legislation could expose companies involved in digital commerce to liability, which could limit the growth of digital commerce generally. Legislation like the Telecommunications Act and the Communications Decency Act could dampen the growth in web usage and decrease its acceptance as a medium of communications and commerce. Moreover, if future laws and regulations limit our customers’ ability to use and share consumer data or our ability to store, process and share data with our customers over the internet, demand for our solutions could decrease, our costs could increase, and our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, taxation of services provided over the internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing 26 Table of Contents greater fees for internet use or restricting information exchange over the internet could result in a decline in the use of the internet and the viability of internet-based services, which could harm our business and operating results. We may not be able to respond to rapid technological changes with new solutions, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profitability. The on-demand digital commerce market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service introductions and evolving industry standards. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing solutions, introduce new solutions and sell into new industry markets. To achieve market acceptance for our solutions, we must effectively anticipate and offer solutions that meet changing customer demands in a timely manner. Customers may require features and capabilities that our current solutions do not have. If we fail to develop solutions that satisfy customer preferences in a timely and cost-effective manner, our ability to renew our contracts with existing customers and our ability to create or increase demand for our solutions will be harmed. We may experience difficulties with software development, industry standards, design, manufacturing or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or implementation of new solutions and enhancements. The introduction of new solutions by competitors, the emergence of new industry standards or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing offerings could render our existing or future solutions obsolete. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new digital commerce capabilities and functionality, enhance our existing solutions to anticipate and meet customer preferences or sell our solutions into new markets, our revenue and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our digital commerce solutions to customers located outside of the United States, and thus our business is susceptible to risks associated with international sales and operations. Outside of the United States, we currently maintain offices and/or have sales personnel in Australia, Austria, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom, and we intend to expand our international operations. Any international expansion efforts that we may undertake may not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations in new markets subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These risks include: • localization of our solutions, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices, such as the local practice in China for consumers to purchase through discount channels like TMall.com rather than directly from the retailer, which could limit our revenue growth in that market, and regulatory requirements; • lack of familiarity and burdens of complying with foreign laws, such as privacy and indemnification laws, legal standards, regulatory requirements, tariffs, and other barriers; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions; • difficulties in managing systems integrators and technology partners; • differing technology standards; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations and differing employer/employee relationships; 27 Table of Contents • fluctuations in exchange rates that may increase the volatility of our foreign based revenue; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax (or other tax) systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • uncertain political and economic climates; and • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. These factors may cause our international costs of doing business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. Any negative impact from our international business efforts could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition as a whole. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets due to licensing requirements and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws. Our solutions are subject to export controls, including the Commerce Department’s Export Administration Regulations and various economic and trade sanctions regulations established by the Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Controls, and exports of our solutions must be made in compliance with these laws. If we fail to comply with these U.S. export control laws and import laws, including U.S. Customs regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to substantial civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export or import privileges; fines, which may be imposed on us and responsible employees or managers; and, in extreme cases, the incarceration of responsible employees or managers. In addition, if our distributors fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or authorizations, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm and penalties. Obtaining the necessary authorizations, including any required license, for a particular sale may be time-consuming, is not guaranteed and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Furthermore, the U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions laws prohibit the shipment of certain products and services to U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments and persons. Even though we take precautions to prevent our solutions from being shipped or provided to U.S. sanctions targets, our solutions and services could be shipped to those targets or provided by our distributors despite such precautions. Any such shipment could have negative consequences, including government investigations, penalties and reputational harm. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology, including through import permitting/licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our solutions or could limit our customers’ ability to implement our solutions in those countries. Changes in our solutions or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction and sale of our solutions in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our solutions or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our solutions to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related laws, shift in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our solutions, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our solutions to existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our solutions or limitation on our ability to export or sell our solutions would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our use of “open source” software could negatively affect our ability to sell our services and subject us to possible litigation. A portion of the technologies licensed by us incorporate so-called “open source” software, and we may incorporate open source software in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses. If we fail to comply with these licenses, we may be subject to certain conditions, including requirements that we offer our solutions that incorporate the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, 28 Table of Contents incorporating or using the open source software and/or that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of our solutions that contained the open source software and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our solutions. In addition, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open source software against companies that incorporate open source software into their products. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products. We rely on third-party software, including server software and licenses from third parties to use patented intellectual property that is required for the delivery of our solutions, which may be difficult to obtain or which could cause errors or failures of our solutions. We rely on software licensed from or hosted by third parties to offer our solutions. In addition, we may need to obtain future licenses from third parties to use intellectual property associated with the development of our solutions, which might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any software required for the development and maintenance of our solutions could result in delays in the provision of our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our solutions which could harm our business. As a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. If our internal control over financial reporting is ineffective, our financial reporting may not be accurate, complete and timely, and our auditors may be unable to attest to its effectiveness when required, thus adversely affecting investor confidence in our company. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ended December 31, 2013 and in each year thereafter. Our auditors also need to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These assessments will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. We have incurred significant costs assessing our system of internal control over financial reporting and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. We may discover, and may not be able to remediate, future significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, or we may be unable to complete our evaluation, testing or any required remediation in a timely fashion. Failure of our internal control over financial reporting to be effective could cause our financial reporting to be inaccurate, incomplete or delayed. Moreover, even if no inaccuracy, incompletion or delay of reporting results, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert, and our auditors will be unable to affirm, that our internal control is effective, in which case investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We may expand by acquiring or investing in other companies, which may divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and consume resources that are necessary to sustain our business. Our business strategy may include acquiring complementary services, technologies or businesses. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our service offerings or our ability to provide service in foreign jurisdictions, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of 29 Table of Contents distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to conditions or approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. Current or future acquisitions, investments or new business relationships may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, the company’s software is not easily adapted to work with ours or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management or otherwise. Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown liabilities. For one or more of those transactions, we may: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; • use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; • incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; • incur large charges or substantial liabilities; • encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse software codes or business cultures; and • become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. Any of these risks could harm our business and operating results. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel may impair our ability to grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical and sales personnel, such as our president and chief executive officer, our chief financial officer, our chief operating officer and our chief technology officer. Our chief financial officer has recently announced his pending departure, and other key employees may terminate employment with us at any time with no advance notice. The replacement of any key officer likely would involve significant time and costs, and the loss of any key officer may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, software and manufacturing companies. For example, our competitors may be able to attract and retain a more qualified engineering team by offering more competitive compensation packages. If we are unable to attract new engineers and retain our current engineers, we may not be able to develop and maintain our services at the same levels as our competitors and we may, therefore, lose potential customers and sales penetration in certain markets. Our failure to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan and, as a result, our ability to compete would decrease, our operating results would suffer and our revenue would decrease. In addition, if any of our key employees joins a competitor or decides to otherwise compete with us, we may experience a material disruption of our operations and development plans, which may cause us to lose customers or increase operating expenses as the attention of our remaining senior managers is diverted to recruit replacements for the departed key employees. 30 Table of Contents Because we recognize costs of services as they are incurred and we recognize related services revenue for subscriptions and services sold in a single arrangement ratably, our gross margins may not be indicative of trends in our services business, which increases the difficulty of evaluating our future financial results. When we sell subscriptions and services in a single arrangement, which is sometimes referred to as a multiple-element arrangement, we recognize the services revenue ratably over the longer of the related subscription term or the estimated expected life of the customer relationship. During 2012 and prior our estimated expected life of a customer relationships ranged from three to six years. At December 31, 2012, we increased the estimated expected life to just over six years after considering additional renewal history during the year. This has resulted in services revenue being recognized over a longer period. At December 31, 2013, we confirmed the estimated expected life of our customers remains just over six years. We continue to evaluate the length of the estimated expected life of our customer relationships as we gain more experience with customer renewals. Future changes in the estimated expected life of our customer relationship periods could result in the recognition of services revenue over a longer or shorter period of time than previously planned, making it difficult to forecast future results. Costs associated with providing these services are recognized as incurred, resulting in variability in our gross margins when costs and revenue are recorded in different periods. During 2010 and prior years, when we sold services in a separate arrangement after a customer’s initial use of our digital commerce solution, we recognized revenue from those services as one unit of accounting together with the related subscription revenue ratably over the remaining term of the subscription agreement. Costs associated with providing these services were recognized as incurred, resulting in variability in our gross margins as costs and revenue were recorded in different periods. Under the revenue recognition guidance that we adopted on January 1, 2011, we recognize revenue from services sold, or materially modified, together with the costs associated with providing the services, as the services are provided. This will result in our future services revenue being recognized over differing periods, which may make our operating results more difficult to understand and less indicative of trends in our services business. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of foreign currencies could result in currency transactions losses. We currently have foreign sales denominated in Euros, British pound sterling, Australian and Canadian dollars and may, in the future, have sales denominated in other foreign currencies. In addition, we incur a portion of our operating expenses in Euros, British pound sterling and, to a lesser extent, other foreign currencies. Any fluctuation in the exchange rate of these foreign currencies may negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We have not previously engaged in foreign currency hedging. If we decide to hedge our foreign currency exposure, we may not be able to hedge effectively due to lack of experience, unreasonable costs or illiquid markets. The global economic conditions may continue to adversely affect our business and results of operations. The U.S., Europe, and other global economies have experienced a recession that has affected all sectors of the economy, resulting in declines in economic growth and consumer confidence, increases in the level of unemployment and uncertainty about economic stability. Global credit and financial markets, including those in Europe, have continued to experience disruptions, including diminished liquidity and credit availability and rapid fluctuations in market valuations. Our business has been affected by these conditions, and there is no certainty that economic conditions will not deteriorate further. These uncertainties may affect our business in a number of ways, making it difficult to accurately forecast and plan our future business activities. Weak economic conditions may lead consumers and retailers to postpone spending, which may cause our customers to decrease or delay their purchases of our solutions. In addition, the inability of consumers to obtain credit could negatively affect our revenue. Financial difficulties experienced by third parties with whom we have entered relationships and upon whom we depend in order to grow our business could detract from the quality or timeliness of the products or professional services they provide to us, which could adversely affect our reputation and relationships with our customers. 31 Table of Contents If the current uncertain economic conditions continue or further deteriorate, we could be required to record charges relating to restructuring costs or the impairment of assets, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the capital markets. Our cash equivalent and short-term investment portfolio as of December 31, 2013 consisted of corporate bonds and commercial paper, money market mutual funds, municipal securities, certificates of deposit, U.S. agency securities and U.S. Treasury securities. We follow an established investment policy and set of guidelines to monitor and help mitigate our exposure to interest rate and credit risk. The policy sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one issuer, as well as our maximum exposure to various asset classes. Should financial market conditions worsen in the future, investments in some financial instruments may pose risks arising from market liquidity and credit concerns. In addition, any deterioration of the capital markets could cause our other income and expense to vary from expectations. As of December 31, 2013, we had no material impairment charges associated with our short-term investment portfolio, and although we believe our current investment portfolio has little risk of material impairment, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, or credit availability, and can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will remain materially unimpaired. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. Risks Related to Tax Matters We are a multinational organization faced with increasingly complex tax issues in many jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions. As a multinational organization, we may be subject to taxation in several jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax laws, including increased tax rates or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, the authorities in these jurisdictions could review our tax returns and impose additional tax, interest and penalties, and the authorities could claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or our subsidiaries or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries, any of which could have a material impact on us and the results of our operations. Taxing authorities could reallocate our taxable income among our subsidiaries, which could increase our consolidated tax liability. We conduct global operations through subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions pursuant to transfer pricing arrangements among our affiliated entities. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those between unrelated companies dealing at arms’ length and that contemporaneous documentation is maintained to support the transfer prices. While we believe that we operate in compliance with applicable transfer pricing laws and intend to continue to do so, our transfer pricing procedures are not binding on applicable tax authorities. If tax authorities in any of these countries were to successfully challenge our transfer prices as not reflecting arms’ length transactions, they could require us to adjust our transfer prices and thereby reallocate our income to reflect these revised transfer prices, which could result in a higher tax liability to us. In addition, if the country from 32 Table of Contents which the income is reallocated does not agree with the reallocation, both countries could tax the same income, resulting in double taxation. If tax authorities were to allocate income to a higher tax jurisdiction, subject our income to double taxation or assess interest and penalties, it would increase our consolidated tax liability, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future tax payments may be limited if we experience a change in ownership, or if taxable income does not reach sufficient levels. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an “ownership change” (generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three year period), the corporation’s ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes (such as research tax credits) to offset its post-change income may be limited. We may experience ownership changes in the future and subsequent shifts in our stock ownership. As a result, we may be limited in the portion of net operating loss carryforwards that we can use in the future to offset taxable income for U.S. Federal income tax purposes. Risks Related To Our Common Stock An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained, and the trading price of our common stock may be volatile. Our shares of common stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange on March 15, 2012. Given the limited trading history of our common stock, there is a risk that an active trading market for our common stock will not be sustained, which could put downward pressure on the market price of our common stock and thereby affect the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares. In addition, the trading price of our common stock has at times been volatile and could continue to be subject to significant fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. For example, after opening at $16.00 per share upon the commencement of our initial public offering, our common stock has experienced an intra-day trading high of $76.53 per share and an intra-day trading low of $21.35 per share. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies operating in such markets. The market price of our common stock may be similarly volatile, and investors in our common stock may experience a decrease in the value of their shares, including as a result of factors unrelated to our operating performance and prospects. The price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors, including: • our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies; • the overall performance of the equity markets; • developments with respect to intellectual property rights; • publication of unfavorable research reports about us or our industry or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community; • the size of our public float; • natural disasters or terrorist acts; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new technologies, acquisitions, commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; and • global economic, legal and regulatory factors unrelated to our performance. 33 Table of Contents If securities or industry analysts cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they publish negative evaluations of our stock, the price of our stock and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes incorrect or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. In addition, if one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We incur significant costs and demands upon management as a result of complying with the laws and regulations affecting public companies, which could adversely affect our operating results. As a newly public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting and corporate governance requirements. These requirements include compliance with Section 404 and other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange. Our management team is adapting to the requirements of being a public company. If these requirements divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. In addition, complying with these rules and regulations has substantially increased our legal and financial compliance expenses, has made some activities more time-consuming and costly, and may in the future require us to reduce costs in other areas of our business or increase the prices of our solution, which could negatively impact our business. The issuance of additional stock in connection with acquisitions, our stock incentive plans, warrants or otherwise will dilute all other stockholdings. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 240,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by our board of directors. Subject to compliance with applicable rules and regulations, we may issue all of these shares that are not already outstanding without any action or approval by our stockholders. We intend to continue to evaluate strategic acquisitions in the future. We may pay for such acquisitions, partly or in full, through the issuance of additional equity. Any issuance of shares in connection with our acquisitions, the exercise of stock options or warrants, the vesting of restricted stock units or otherwise would dilute the percentage ownership held by existing investors. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. In addition, our existing credit facilities prohibit us from paying cash dividends, and any future financing agreements may prohibit us from paying any type of dividends. Consequently, investors may need to sell all or part of their holdings of our common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law may delay or prevent an acquisition of our company. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or changes in our management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that: • establish a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; • provide that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause; 34 Table of Contents • limit the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; • require advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; • authorize blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; and • limit the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated by-laws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that you could receive a premium for your common stock in an acquisition. To the extent that our pre-tax income or loss is relatively small, our ability to conclude that a control deficiency is not a material weakness or that an accounting error does not require a restatement could be adversely affected. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, our management is required to assess the impact of control deficiencies based upon both quantitative and qualitative factors, and depending upon that analysis we classify such identified deficiencies as either a control deficiency, significant deficiency or a material weakness. One element of our analysis of the significance of any control deficiency is its actual or potential financial impact. This assessment will vary depending on our level of pre-tax income or loss. For example, a smaller pre-tax income or loss will increase the likelihood of a quantitative assessment of a control deficiency as a significant deficiency or material weakness. To the extent that our pre-tax income or loss is relatively small, if management identifies an error in our interim or annual financial statements, it is more likely that such an error may be determined to be a material weakness or be considered a material error that could, depending upon the complete quantitative and qualitative analysis, result in our having to restate previously issued financial statements. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 