ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Risks Related to Drug Discovery, Development, and Commercialization We are subject to significant regulatory requirements which could delay, prevent, or limit our ability to market our product candidates, including RG7128, PSI-7851, PSI-938, PSI-879, and Racivir. Our research and development activities, preclinical studies, clinical trials, manufacturing, and anticipated marketing of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by a wide range of governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by comparable authorities in European and other countries. To date, none of our product candidates have been approved for sale by the FDA or any foreign regulatory authority. Neither we nor our collaborators, independently or collectively, will be able to commercialize any of our product candidates until we or they obtain FDA approval in the United States or approval by comparable regulatory agencies in Europe or other countries. To satisfy FDA or foreign regulatory approval standards for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we must, among other requirements, demonstrate in adequate and well-controlled clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective. The clinical trials of a drug candidate can be suspended at any time by us, a regulatory agency, institutional review board (“IRB”), an independent drug safety monitoring board, or others if there is a concern that subjects participating in the clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. Adverse side effects of a product candidate on subjects in a clinical trial could result in the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities refusing to approve a particular drug candidate for any and all indications of use. We or our collaborators have conducted initial preclinical studies and early-stage clinical trials of RG7128, PSI-7851, and Racivir and preclinical studies of PSI-938 and PSI-879. Many of these trials were not primarily designed to demonstrate the efficacy of these product candidates but, rather, to collect data on safety and assist in determining the appropriate dose. Even if our product candidates achieve positive results in preclinical and clinical trials, similar results may not be observed in subsequent trials and results may not prove to be statistically significant or demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. The FDA also regulates the manufacturing facilities of our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. Prior to approval, the FDA inspects manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with current good manufacturing practice (“cGMP”), including quality control and record-keeping measures. Post-approval, the FDA and certain state agencies subject these facilities to unannounced inspections to ensure continued compliance with cGMP. Failure to satisfy the pre-approval inspection or subsequent discovery of problems with a product, or a manufacturing or laboratory facility used by us, our collaborators, or third-party manufacturers may result in an inability to receive approval, recall of products, delay in approval, or restrictions on the product or on the manufacturing post-approval, including a withdrawal of the drug from the market or suspension of manufacturing. Such inspections of third party manufacturers may adversely affect us whether or not our products are the cause of the inspection because other products or a general cGMP inspection was the initiating event for the inspection. Our collaborators and third-party manufacturers rely on a variety of suppliers of raw materials, equipment, and other supplies to comply with cGMP and other specifications and standards. The failure of a supplier to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers to meet such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our research, development, and future commercial activities. Foreign regulatory authorities have similar manufacturing compliance requirements which may result in similar outcomes to those noted above. The FDA and foreign regulatory authorities also regulate the conduct of clinical trials, ensuring compliance with current good clinical practice regulations and guidance (“cGCP”). Clinical investigator sites contracted by us or any of our collaborators may be inspected, unannounced, by any regulatory authority at any time. Failure of the clinical site to successfully complete the regulatory inspection may adversely affect the company whether or not our trials are the cause of the inspection. This occurs because clinical investigators routinely conduct trials for other companies and inspection of those trials may uncover more systemic problems at the site which were not known to us. 26 Table of Contents We also will be required to obtain foreign regulatory approval for the sale of our products outside of the United States. Foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval processes described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Approval by one regulatory agency, including the FDA, does not assure approval by other regulatory authorities. Many foreign regulatory authorities have different approval standards from each other and from those required by the FDA and may impose additional testing requirements for our product candidates. Furthermore, international ethical review boards may cause our clinical trials to be delayed pending their review of safety data, clinical procedures, and comments provided by foreign regulatory authorities. We have had limited interaction with foreign regulatory authorities. We may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to submit for foreign regulatory approvals, they may not accept the application and we may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our existing and future product candidates in any market. The regulatory approval process is expensive and, while the time required to complete clinical trials and for FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes is uncertain, it typically takes many years. Our analysis of data obtained from our preclinical studies and clinical trials is subject to confirmation and interpretation by different regulatory authorities who may have different views on the design, scope, or results of our clinical trials, which could delay, limit, or prevent regulatory approval. At any time, changes in regulatory policy during the development period of any of our product candidates, changes in, or the enactment of, additional regulations or statutes, or changes in regulatory review practices for a submitted product application may result in failure of the agency to accept our application for review, which could cause a delay in obtaining approval or result in the rejection of an application for regulatory approval. We could also encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in FDA or foreign regulatory policies during the period of product development, clinical trials, or regulatory review. The company seeks to ensure a productive dialogue with regulatory authorities throughout product development, application review and thereafter. We may reach the conclusion to not follow all of the regulatory authorities’ advice for the content of a marketing application and instead justify its position with supporting data and expert analyses contained in the original application. The regulatory authority(ies) may agree or disagree with this approach, which may affect acceptance of the application, the length of agency review, or other action on the application. The regulatory review process is subject to political, technical, economic, and other developments. This results in dynamic and unpredictable risks in drug development, regulatory compliance, and commercialization of pharmaceuticals. As a result of these factors, our product candidates could require a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than expected or may never gain approval. We cannot assure you that, even after expending substantial time and resources, we will obtain regulatory approval for any of our product candidates. A delay or denial of regulatory approval could delay or prevent our ability to generate product revenues and to achieve profitability. If regulatory approval is obtained, our marketing of any product will be limited to its indicated uses, which will limit the size of the market for a product and affect our potential product revenues. Our product candidates must undergo the conduct of rigorous clinical trials, the results of which are uncertain and could substantially delay or prevent us from bringing product candidates to market. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, among other things, we must undertake extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Clinical trials of new product candidates sufficient to obtain regulatory marketing approval are complex and expensive and take years to complete. The results of earlier-stage testing may not be predictive of results in future trials. For example, estimates of detectable circulating virus reduction and activity against HCV (or HIV) obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials are not necessarily indicative of results that could be achieved in subsequent clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after obtaining promising results in earlier preclinical studies and clinical trials. We cannot assure you that we or our collaborators will successfully 27 Table of Contents complete the planned clinical trials. Our collaborators or we may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, the clinical trial process that could delay or prevent us from receiving regulatory approval or commercializing our product candidates, including the following events: • our clinical trials may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical and/or preclinical studies, restrict investigation to limited patient populations, or to abandon development programs; • trial results may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the FDA or other regulatory agencies; • we, IRBs, independent safety monitors, or regulators may suspend or terminate clinical trials if the participating subjects are believed to be exposed to unacceptable health risks; and • the effects of our product candidates on subjects may not be the desired effects or may include undesirable side effects or other characteristics that may delay or preclude regulatory approval or limit their commercial use. We have limited experience in conducting clinical trials which could impair our timing or ability to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain FDA approval or approval by other regulatory authorities. Our past clinical experience has been limited to a small number of product candidates in a limited number of therapeutic areas. By contrast, larger pharmaceutical companies often have substantial staffs experienced in conducting clinical trials with multiple product candidates across multiple indications. As a result, we may be at a competitive disadvantage that could, for example result in delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, if at all, for our product candidates for which we conduct or manage the clinical trial process. Delays in conducting clinical trials could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to obtain regulatory approval and commercialize our product candidates. Significant delays in conducting clinical trials and related drug development programs could materially affect our product development costs and delay regulatory approval of our product candidates. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time, will need to be redesigned, or will be completed on schedule, if at all. A clinical trial can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including: • delays or failures in obtaining regulatory authorization to commence a trial because of safety concerns of regulators relating to our product candidates or similar product candidates, competitive or comparator products or supportive care products or failure to follow regulatory guidelines; • delays or failures in obtaining clinical materials and manufacturing sufficient quantities of the product candidate for use in a trial; • delays or failures in reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective study sites or other contract research organizations; • delays or failures in obtaining approval of our clinical trial protocol from an IRB to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective study site; • delays in recruiting or enrolling subjects to participate in a clinical trial; • failure of a clinical trial or clinical investigators to be in compliance with Good Clinical Practices; • unforeseen safety issues; • inability to monitor subjects adequately during or after treatment; • difficulty monitoring multiple study sites; 28 Table of Contents • failure of our third-party clinical trial managers to satisfy their contractual duties, comply with regulations, or meet expected deadlines; and • determination by regulators that the clinical design of a trial is not adequate. Failure to recruit, enroll, and retain subjects for clinical trials may cause the development of our product candidates to be delayed or development costs to increase substantially. We have experienced, and expect to experience in the future, delays in subject enrollment in our clinical trials for a variety of reasons. The timely completion of clinical trials in accordance with their protocol depends, among other things, on our ability to enroll a sufficient number of subjects who remain in the study until its conclusion. The enrollment of subjects depends on many factors, including: • the subject eligibility criteria defined in the protocol; • the size of the subject population required for analysis of the trial’s primary endpoints; • the proximity of subjects to study sites; • the design of the trial; • our ability to recruit clinical trial investigators with the appropriate competencies and experience; • our ability to obtain and maintain subject consents; • the risk that subjects enrolled in clinical trials will drop out of the trials before completion; and • competition for subjects by clinical trial programs for other treatments. Our clinical trials compete with other clinical trials for product candidates that are in the same therapeutic areas as our product candidates, and this competition reduces the number and types of subjects available to us, because some subjects who might have opted to enroll in our trials opt to enroll in a trial being conducted by one of our competitors. Since the number of qualified clinical investigators is limited, we conduct some of our clinical trials at the same clinical trial sites that some of our competitors use, which reduces the number of subjects who are available for our clinical trials in such clinical trial site. Delays in patient enrollment in the future as a result of these and other factors may result in increased costs or may affect the timing or outcome of our clinical trials, which could prevent us from completing these trials and adversely affect our ability to advance the development of our product candidates. Our product candidates may demonstrate or be associated with undesirable side effects when used alone or in combination with other products that prevent their regulatory approval or limit their use if approved. We must adequately define the safety profile of our product candidates to obtain regulatory approval. Although in clinical trials completed to date RG7128, PSI-7851, and Racivir were generally well tolerated, these trials involved a relatively small number of subjects and we may observe significant adverse events for these product candidates in the future. Roche is currently conducting larger clinical studies of RG7128 and we are planning to conduct additional clinical studies of PSI-7851. It is possible that any side effects associated with our product candidates may outweigh the benefits of our product candidates and prevent regulatory approval or demonstrate a risk/reward profile which would limit their market acceptance if they are approved. Recent developments in the pharmaceutical industry have prompted heightened government focus on safety reporting during both pre- and post-approval time periods and pharmacovigilance. Global health authorities may impose regulatory requirements to monitor safety that may burden our ability to commercialize our drug products. Even if we receive regulatory approval to market our product candidates, the market may not be receptive to our product candidates, which would negatively affect our ability to achieve profitability. 29 Table of Contents If approved for marketing, the commercial success of our product candidates will depend upon their acceptance by physicians and the medical community, patients, and private, government, and third-party payers as clinically safe and effective, cost-effective therapeutics. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved products will depend upon a number of factors, including: • the indication for which the product is approved and its approved labeling; • the acceptance in the medical community of the safety and efficacy of the product; • the incidence, prevalence, and severity of adverse side effects; • the presence of other competing approved therapies; • the potential advantages of the product over existing and future treatment methods; • the relative convenience and ease of administration of the product; • the strength of our sales, marketing, and distribution support; • the price and cost-effectiveness of the product; and • sufficient third-party reimbursement. We are aware that a significant number of product candidates are currently under development and may become available in the future for the treatment of HCV and HIV, and may be approved prior to any of our product candidates coming to market. Even if our products achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if new therapeutics are introduced that are more favorably received than our products or that render our products obsolete, or if unacceptable levels of drug resistance or significant adverse events occur. If our products do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenue from product sales to attain profitability. Even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our marketed drugs will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. If we fail to comply with continuing U.S. and foreign regulations, we could lose our marketing approvals and our business would be seriously harmed. Following initial regulatory approval of any drugs we or our collaborators may develop, we and our collaborators will be subject to continuing regulatory review by the FDA or other regulatory authorities, including the review of adverse drug events and clinical results that are reported after product candidates become commercially available. This would include results from any post-marketing follow-up studies or other reporting required as a condition to approval. The manufacture, distribution, sale, labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, reporting, and record-keeping related to the product will also be subject to extensive ongoing and regulatory requirements, which are subject to change. In addition, incidents of adverse drug reactions, unintended side effects, or misuse relating to our products could result in additional regulatory controls or restrictions or even lead to withdrawal of a product from the market. Furthermore, our third-party manufacturers and the manufacturing facilities that they use to make our product candidates are regulated by the FDA and other governmental authorities (including foreign authorities). Quality control and manufacturing procedures must continue to conform to cGMP after approval. Pharmaceutical manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their facilities and/or products manufactured at time of submission of the marketing application and annually with the FDA and certain state and foreign agencies and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA, state, and other foreign authorities. Any subsequent discovery of problems with a product, or a manufacturing or laboratory facility used by us or our collaborators, may result in restrictions on the product or on the manufacturing or laboratory facility, including marketed product recall, suspension of manufacturing, product seizure, or a voluntary withdrawal of the drug from the market. Any change to an approved product, including the way it is manufactured or promoted, often requires FDA or other regulatory authority notification or approval before the product, as modified, can be 30 Table of Contents marketed. We and our third-party manufacturers will also be subject to ongoing FDA or other regulatory authority requirements for submission of safety and other post-market information. If we, our collaborators, or our third-party manufacturers fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, our business could be seriously harmed because a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters which require corrective action; • suspend or withdraw our regulatory approval for approved products; • seize or detain products or recommend a product recall; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications submitted by us; • suspend any of our ongoing clinical trials; • impose restrictions on our operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; • close the facilities of our contract manufacturers; or • impose civil or criminal penalties including fines, imprisonment, and disgorgement of profits. The FDA’s and foreign regulatory agencies’ policies are subject to change and additional federal, state, local, or foreign governmental regulations may be enacted that could affect our ability to maintain compliance. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of adverse governmental regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. Our research and development efforts may not result in additional product candidates being discovered, which could limit our ability to generate revenues in the future. Our research and development efforts may not lead to the discovery of any additional product candidates that would be suitable for further preclinical or clinical development. The discovery of additional product candidates requires significant research and preclinical studies as well as a substantial commitment of resources. Many lead compounds that appear promising in preclinical studies fail to progress to become product candidates in clinical trials. There is a great deal of uncertainty inherent in our research and development efforts and, as a consequence, in our ability to fill our drug development pipeline with promising additional product candidates. We have no sales, marketing, or distribution experience. We will be required to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources in developing these resources. If PSI-7851, PSI-938, and PSI-879 receive marketing approval in the United States, we intend to promote and commercialize certain of these products, in certain cases without a partner. To develop internal sales, distribution, and marketing capabilities, we will have to invest significant amounts of financial and management resources. As a result, we could face a number of risks, including: • we may not be able to attract and build a significant marketing or sales force; • the cost of establishing, training, and providing compliance oversight for a marketing or sales force may not be justifiable in light of the revenues generated by any particular product; and • our direct sales and marketing efforts may not be successful. We and our collaborators will be subject to stringent federal, state, and foreign regulation of sales and marketing of any approved product candidate and a failure to comply with these regulations could result in substantial penalties. The marketing and advertising of our drug products by our collaborators or us will be regulated by the FDA, certain state agencies, or foreign regulatory authorities. Violations of these laws and regulations, including promotion of our products for unapproved uses or failing to adequately disclose risk information, are punishable 31 Table of Contents by criminal and civil sanctions and may result in the issuance of enforcement letters, corrective advertising or other enforcement action by the FDA, Department of Justice, state agencies, or foreign regulatory or other legal authorities that could jeopardize our ability to market the product. In addition to FDA, state, and foreign regulations, the marketing of drug products by us or our collaborators will be regulated by federal, state, or foreign laws pertaining to health care “fraud and abuse,” such as the federal anti-kickback law prohibiting bribes, kickbacks, or other remuneration for the order or recommendation of items or services reimbursed by federal health care programs. Many states have laws applicable to items or services reimbursed by commercial insurers. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including, in some instances, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in federal and state health care programs, including Medicare, Medicaid, and Veterans Affairs healthcare programs. Because of the far-reaching nature of these laws, we will need regularly to evaluate and, as appropriate, potentially revise our practices to ensure compliance with these laws. Health care fraud and abuse regulations are complex, and even minor irregularities can potentially give rise to claims that a statute or prohibition has been violated. Any violations of these laws, or any action against us for violations of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We could also become subject to false claims litigation under federal statutes, which can lead to civil money penalties, restitution, criminal fines, and imprisonment, and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal and state health care programs. These false claims statutes include the False Claims Act, which allows any person to bring a suit on behalf of the federal government alleging submission of false or fraudulent claims, or causing to present such false or fraudulent claims, under federal programs or contracts claims or other violations of the statute and to share in any amounts paid by the entity to the government in fines or settlement. These suits against pharmaceutical companies have increased significantly in volume and breadth in recent years. Some of these suits against pharmaceutical companies have been brought on allegations that certain sales practices amount to the promotion of drug products for unapproved uses. This new growth in litigation has increased the risk that a pharmaceutical company will have to defend a false claim action, pay fines or restitution, or be excluded from the Medicare, Medicaid, Veterans Affairs, and other federal and state healthcare programs as a result of an investigation arising out of such action. We may become subject to such litigation, the defense of which can be expensive, time consuming, and distracting. If we are not successful in defending against such actions, those actions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Financial Performance and Business Operations We have incurred net losses since our inception and our future profitability is uncertain and we anticipate that we will incur significant continued net losses for the next several years. We are a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company with a limited operating history upon which an investor can evaluate our operations and future prospects. We have incurred net losses in each year since our inception in 1998. For the years ended September 30, 2009, 2008, and 2007, we had net losses of $55.6 million, $54.7 million, and $5.1 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of $167.4 million. We do not expect to generate significant sales revenue from our product candidates for at least the next several years and we expect to continue to incur significant operating losses in future periods. We expect to incur substantial costs to further our drug discovery and development programs and that our rate of spending will accelerate as a result of the increased costs and expenses associated with preclinical and clinical development of PSI-7851, PSI-938, PSI-879, Racivir, and other future product candidates. In addition, as we expand our operations, we will need to continue to improve our facilities and hire additional personnel. As a result, we expect that our annual operating losses will increase significantly over the next several years. Our revenue and profit potential is unproven, and our limited operating history and the many risks inherent in drug development make our future operating results difficult to predict. To attain profitability, we and our collaborators will need to successfully develop products and effectively market and sell them. We have never 32 Table of Contents generated revenue from the sale of products and there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. If our product candidates fail to show positive results in ongoing preclinical studies and clinical trials, if we or our collaborators do not receive regulatory approval, or if our product candidates do not achieve market acceptance even if approved, we may never become profitable. If we fail to become profitable, or if we are unable to continue to fund our continuing losses, we may be unable to continue our clinical development programs. We will require substantial funds in the future and we may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce, or eliminate some of our drug discovery, product development, and commercialization activities. Developing product candidates, conducting clinical trials, and commercializing products is expensive and we will need to raise substantial additional funds to achieve our strategic objectives. Although we believe our existing cash resources as of September 30, 2009, together with anticipated payments under our existing collaboration agreement, will be sufficient to fund our projected cash requirements for the next 12 months, we will require significant additional financing in the future to fund our operations. Such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the progress and costs of our preclinical studies, clinical trials, and other research and development activities; • the costs and timing of obtaining regulatory approval of our product candidates; • the scope, prioritization, and number of our clinical trials and other research and development programs; • the costs of the development and expansion of our operational infrastructure; • the ability of our collaborator(s) to achieve development milestones, marketing approval, and other events or developments under our collaboration agreement(s); • the amount of revenues we receive under our collaboration agreement(s); • the costs of filing, prosecuting, enforcing and defending patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the costs and timing of securing manufacturing arrangements for clinical or commercial production; • the costs of establishing sales and marketing capabilities or contracting with third parties to provide these capabilities for us; • the costs of acquiring or undertaking development and commercialization efforts for any future product candidates; • the magnitude of our general and administrative expenses; and • any costs that we may incur under current and future licensing arrangements relating to our product candidates. Our ability to raise additional funds will depend on financial, economic, and market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Additional financing may not be available when we need it or, if available, may not be on terms that are favorable to us. If we are unable to obtain adequate funding on a timely basis, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our drug discovery or development programs. 33 Table of Contents Raising additional capital may dilute our stockholders’ equity, limit our flexibility, or require us to relinquish rights. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations through public or private equity offerings or debt financings. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, our stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt financing we enter into may include covenants that limit our flexibility in conducting our business. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others, which might require us to relinquish valuable rights to our intellectual property or product candidates that we would have otherwise retained. Our success depends in part on our ability to retain and recruit key personnel, and if we fail to do so, it may be more difficult for us to successfully develop our product candidates or achieve our business objectives. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical, and scientific personnel. We are highly dependent on our senior management and scientific staff, particularly P. Schaefer Price, our Chief Executive Officer, Kurt Leutzinger, our Chief Financial Officer, and M. Michelle Berrey, M.D., M.P.H., our Chief Medical Officer. We do not maintain key person insurance for our senior management or scientific staff. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or key members of our scientific staff may significantly delay or prevent the successful completion of our preclinical studies and clinical trials or the commercialization of our product candidates. To date, we are not aware that any member of our senior management or scientific staff plans to leave the company. The employment of each of our employees with us is “at will” and each employee can terminate his or her employment with us at any time. We currently have an employment agreement in place with P. Schaefer Price. Our success will also depend on our ability to hire and retain additional qualified scientific and management personnel. Competition for qualified individuals in the pharmaceutical field is intense, and we face competition from numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and other research institutions. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified individuals on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel. Furthermore, there is a possibility that a qualified candidate we are recruiting might opt to accept a position with one of our competitors instead of with us because our competitor may have products that are already on the market and generating revenue. If we are unsuccessful in our recruiting efforts, we may be unable to execute our strategy. The requirements of being a public company may strain our administrative and operational infrastructure and increase our operating costs. The obligations of being a public company require significant additional expenditures and place additional demands on our management, administrative, operational, internal audit, and accounting resources as we comply with the reporting requirements of a public company. If we are unable to continue to update our procedures and adapt our management, administrative, operational, and accounting functions in such a manner so as to meet such obligations in a timely and effective manner, our ability to comply with the rules that apply to public companies could be impaired. In meeting our obligations, we may need to upgrade our systems, implement additional financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, implement an internal audit function, and hire additional accounting, audit, and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge, which will increase our general and administrative expenses and capital expenditures. The rules and any related regulations that may be proposed in the future that are applicable to public companies may make it more difficult and more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher premiums to obtain the same or similar coverage. We cannot estimate the amount or timing of the additional costs we may incur as a result of the reporting requirements applicable to public companies, but we expect our operating results will be adversely affected by the costs of operating as a public company. 34 Table of Contents We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may encounter difficulties managing our growth. As of September 30, 2009, we had 65 employees, 43 of whom perform research and development functions. We do not plan to hire a significant number of additional employees in the near future. As our product candidates continue to progress toward potential commercialization, we anticipate the need in the future to hire additional employees as required to add depth and specialized expertise to our team. This growth could place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. If the product candidates that we are developing continue to advance in clinical trials, we will need to expand our development, regulatory, manufacturing, quality, marketing, and sales capabilities or contract with third parties to provide these capabilities for us. As our operations expand, we expect that we will need to develop additional relationships with various collaborators, contract research organizations, suppliers, manufacturers, and other organizations. We may not be able to establish such relationships or may incur significant costs to do so. Our ability to manage our growth will also require us to continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls, reporting systems and procedures, and other compliance programs and processes which will further increase our operating costs. If we are unable to successfully manage the expansion of our operations or operate on a larger scale, we will not achieve our strategic objectives. Our debt obligations include covenants which may adversely affect us. On September 30, 2007, we entered into a Venture Loan and Security Agreement (“Loan Agreement”) with a lender. As of September 30, 2009, we had a $20.1 million outstanding principal balance under the Loan Agreement. Under the Loan Agreement we agreed that in the event our market capitalization is below $90.0 million for 15 consecutive days in which the principal market for our common stock is open for trading to the public, we will repay 50% of the then outstanding principal balance of the loans. We further agreed under the Loan Agreement that in the event our market capitalization is below $40.0 million for 15 consecutive days in which the principal market for our common stock is open for trading to the public, we will be required to repay all of the then outstanding principal balance of the loans. In addition, all of our assets other than our intellectual property secure the loans. There is a risk that the lender could obtain rights to the secured assets in the event we default on our obligations under the Loan Agreement. The Loan Agreement also contains covenants that, among other things, require us to obtain consent from the lender prior to paying dividends, making certain investments, changing the nature of our business, assuming or guaranteeing the indebtedness of another entity or individual, selling or otherwise disposing of a substantial portion of our assets, or merging or consolidating with another entity. A breach of any of the covenants in the Loan Agreement could result in a default under that agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, the lender could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Loan Agreement to be immediately due and payable. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could result in increased costs. We are party to some agreements denominated, wholly or partly, in foreign currencies, and, in the future, we may enter into additional agreements denominated in foreign currencies. If the values of these currencies increase against the United States dollar, our costs would increase. To date, we have not entered into any contracts to reduce the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In the future, depending upon the amounts payable under any such agreements, we may enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk of unpredictable changes in these costs. However, due to the variability of timing and amount of payments under any such agreements, foreign exchange contracts may not mitigate the potential adverse impact on our financial results. 35 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We have licensed PSI-6130 and its prodrugs, including RG7128, to Roche, and we will depend on Roche to continue its development and commercialization. We are developing RG7128 under a collaborative licensing agreement that we entered into with Roche in October 2004. We are dependent on Roche to continue the development of RG7128 and successfully commercialize it. Roche may terminate its agreement with us without cause on six months notice. If Roche fails to aggressively pursue the development and marketing approval of RG7128, if a dispute arises with Roche over the terms or the interpretation of the collaboration agreement or an alleged breach of any provision of the agreement, or if Roche terminates its agreement, then the development and commercialization of RG7128, or our ability to receive the expected payments under this agreement, could be delayed or adversely affected. Roche is subject to many of the same development and commercialization risks to which we are subject. If Roche decides to devote resources to alternative products, either on its own or in collaboration with other pharmaceutical companies, Roche may not devote sufficient resources to the development of RG7128. Further, if Roche decides to pursue additional therapies for HCV, future sales of RG7128 could be adversely affected. Any adverse development in Roche’s operations or financial condition could adversely affect the development and commercialization of RG7128 or other prodrugs of PSI-6130, and our receipt of future milestone payments and royalties on its sales. We and our collaborators depend on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, which may result in costs and delays that prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval or successfully commercializing our product candidates. We and our collaborators engage clinical investigators and medical institutions to enroll subjects in our clinical trials and contract research organizations to perform data collection and analysis and other aspects of our preclinical studies and clinical trials. As a result, we depend on these third parties to perform these activities on a timely basis in accordance with the clinical protocols, good laboratory practices, good clinical trial practices, and other regulatory requirements. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Accordingly, if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, terminated, or our data may be rejected by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. If it became necessary to replace a third party that was conducting one of our clinical trials, we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors whom we could engage to continue these activities, although it may result in a delay of the applicable clinical trial. If there are delays in testing or obtaining regulatory approvals as a result of a third party’s failure to perform, our drug discovery and development costs will increase, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Reliance on third parties to conduct and monitor clinical trials may result in increased financial and regulatory risks. Most new drugs must undergo clinical trials on human subjects before they are approved for marketing in the United States or in other countries. In recent years, the number of clinical trials of new drugs has increased, due both to U.S. federal funding of biomedical research and to research investment by pharmaceutical and biotech companies and to increased global regulatory requirements such as long term safety testing prior to product approval. There has also been a trend toward increased monitoring and enforcement of laws and the issuance of industry guidelines applicable to clinical research, including those relating to fraud and abuse. Because we rely on third party contract research organizations (“CROs”), service providers, and other organizations and institutions to conduct and monitor our clinical studies we face risks related to fraud and abuse in the conduct of our clinical studies. Those risks include financial misconduct, misconduct associated with human subjects protection, and research misconduct. 36 Table of Contents Several aspects of financial management in clinical trials particularly increase potential risks relating to fraud and abuse concerns, including third-party payor coverage for clinical trials and related costs and research sponsor payments for clinical trial services and costs, and federal grants oversight and management. For example, allegations of False Claims Act violations in connection with Medicare billing for clinical trial services have been asserted against a number of research sites and the Department of Health and Human Service (“HHS”) Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) has repeatedly expressed concern that some industry-sponsored clinical trials may be suspect under the anti-kickback statute if they are motivated by marketing objectives. A number of research institutions have entered settlement agreements with the federal government following False Claims Act charges relating to mismanagement of federal grant funds. Human subjects protection in the United States is addressed in regulations and guidance issued by HHS and the FDA that focus on subjects’ informed consent for clinical trial participation, institutional review board review and monitoring the conduct of clinical trials, and identification and management of researchers’ conflicts of interest. Knowing failure to comply with these requirements has resulted in fraud claims against CROs, researchers and institutional review boards. Recent allegations of community clinical research center mismanagement, increased enforcement actions such as warning letters, and failure to comply with informed consent requirements may result in additional governmental monitoring, regulation, and enforcement applicable to us, our collaborators and the CROs, researchers, and institutional review boards we work with. We maintain compliance programs through our clinical operations and development personnel working with finance and legal group support. Our clinical trial vendors are required to monitor and report to us the possible remedial action required for the conduct of clinical studies and we are obliged to take the appropriate action. We also monitor clinical trial vendors through our regulatory and quality assurance staff and service providers. It is our understanding that Roche has undertaken to monitor the clinical trials it sponsors; and that it devotes substantial resources to this effort. However, we cannot assure you that our or our collaborators’ programs and personnel will timely and fully discover any fraud or abuse that may occur in connection with our clinical trials. Such fraud or abuse, if it occurs, could have a material adverse affect on our research, development, or commercialization activities and results. If parties on whom we rely to manufacture our product candidates do not manufacture the active pharmaceutical ingredients or finished products of satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at an acceptable cost, clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities. Consequently, we rely on third parties as sole suppliers of our product candidates. We do not expect to establish our own manufacturing facilities and we will continue to rely on third-party manufacturers to produce clinical supplies and commercial quantities of any drugs that we market or may supply to our collaborators. Our dependence on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize any product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. Our collaborators may decide to not accept the product that we supply them. To date, our product candidates have only been manufactured in quantities sufficient for preclinical studies or initial clinical trials. We do not currently have any long-term supply agreements in place for our product candidates and will need to enter into supply agreements for additional supplies of each of our product candidates to complete clinical development and/or commercialize them. Additionally, in connection with our application for commercial approvals and if any product candidate is approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we will need to procure commercial quantities from qualified third-party manufacturers. Neither we nor Roche may be able to contract for increased manufacturing capacity for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner or at all. A significant scale-up in manufacturing may require additional validation studies and commensurate financial investments by the contract manufacturers. If we or Roche are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage of supply, which could limit our sales and could initiate regulatory intervention to minimize the public health risk. 37 Table of Contents Other risks associated with our reliance on contract manufacturers include the following: • Contract manufacturers may encounter difficulties in achieving volume production, quality control, and quality assurance and also may experience shortages in qualified personnel and obtaining active ingredients for our product candidates. • If we or Roche need to change manufacturers, the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies must approve these manufacturers in advance. This requires prior approval of regulatory submissions as well as successful completion of pre-approval inspections to ensure compliance with FDA and foreign regulations and standards. • Contract manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic, unannounced inspection by the FDA and state and foreign agencies or their designees to ensure strict compliance with cGMP and other governmental regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over compliance by our contract manufacturers with these regulations and standards. Our contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with cGMP and other FDA requirements or other regulatory requirements outside the United States. Failure of contract manufacturers to comply with applicable regulations could result in delays, suspensions or withdrawal of approvals, seizures or recalls of product candidates, and operating restrictions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect our business. • Contract manufacturers may breach the manufacturing agreements that we or our development partners have with them because of factors beyond our control or may terminate or fail to renew a manufacturing agreement based on their own business priorities at a time that is costly or inconvenient to us. Changes to the manufacturing process during the conduct of clinical trials or after marketing approval also require regulatory submissions and the demonstration to the FDA or other regulatory authorities that the product manufactured under the new conditions complies with cGMP requirements. These requirements especially apply to moving manufacturing functions to another facility. In each phase of investigation, sufficient information about changes in the manufacturing process must be submitted to the regulatory authorities and may require prior approval before implementation with the potential of substantial delay or the inability to implement the requested changes. We may experience difficulties in entering into contracts on favorable terms for supplies of our products for future preclinical studies and clinical trials, which could prevent us from completing these studies and delay the commercialization of our products. Roche is supplying RG7128 for our joint clinical trials and development program. We are considering additional supply options of RG7128. [We have entered into an agreement with Roche for the purchase of clinical supplies of RG7128 and related clinical materials for our use in developing RG7128 outside of Roche’s licensed territory.] We will need to enter into supply agreements for additional supplies of each of our product candidates to complete clinical development and/or commercialize them. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on favorable terms, if at all. If we conduct future preclinical or clinical studies of RG7128 in our retained territories, we will need to procure additional product and drug supplies. We are currently proceeding to identify and evaluate the qualifications of potential suppliers that could manufacture RG7128, but we have not yet entered into a definitive supply agreement with any company. We also anticipate the need to procure additional product and drug supplies, including qualifying potential additional suppliers, of PSI-7851, PSI-938, and PSI-879. 38 Table of Contents If conflicts arise between our collaborators and us, our collaborators may act in their best interest and not in our best interest, which could adversely affect our business. Conflicts may arise with our collaborators if they pursue alternative therapies for the diseases that we have targeted or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others. Competing products, either developed by our present collaborators or any future collaborators or to which our present collaborators or any future collaborators have rights, may result in development delays or the withdrawal of their support for one or more of our product candidates. Additionally, conflicts may arise if there is a dispute about the progress of, or other activities related to, the clinical development of a product candidate, the achievement and payment of a milestone amount, or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of the collaborative arrangement. Similarly, the parties to a collaboration agreement may disagree as to which party owns newly developed products. If an agreement is terminated as a result of a dispute and before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration, our reputation could be harmed and we might not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving. We may rely on other collaborators in the future and if future collaborations are not successful, we may not be able to effectively develop and commercialize our product candidates. We may decide to enter into future collaborations for the development and commercialization of PSI-7851 or other product candidates. We may not be successful in entering into any additional collaborations. Relying on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks to us, including the following: • we may be required to relinquish important rights, including intellectual property, marketing, and distribution rights; • we will not be able to control whether our collaborators will devote sufficient resources to the development or commercialization of the product candidates we license; • we will not have access to all information regarding the products being developed and commercialized by our collaborators, including information about clinical trial design and execution, safety reports from clinical trials or spontaneous safety reports if the product is marketed, regulatory affairs, process development, manufacturing, marketing, and other areas known by our collaborators. Thus, our ability to keep our stockholders informed about the status of our collaborated products will be limited by the degree to which our collaborators keep us informed; • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may also adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness to actively pursue the development and commercialization of any products resulting from a collaboration; • a collaborator may separately move forward with a competing product candidate either developed independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; • collaborators with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to other products they are selling; • our collaborators may experience financial difficulties and may be unable to fund the clinical trials, fulfill their obligations under collaboration agreements with us or delay paying us agreed-upon milestone payments, reimbursements, royalties, or other committed amounts; and • disputes may arise between us and our collaborators delaying or terminating the research, development, or commercialization of our product candidates, resulting in litigation or arbitration that could be time-consuming and expensive. A collaborator may terminate its agreement with us or simultaneously pursue alternative products, therapeutic approaches, or technologies as a means of developing treatments for the diseases targeted by us or 39 Table of Contents our collaborative effort. If a collaborator terminates its agreement with us, the development or commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or terminated, or we could be required to undertake unforeseen additional responsibilities or devote unbudgeted additional resources to such development or commercialization. If we fail to enter into additional in-licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our ability to fill our clinical pipeline may be adversely affected. In addition to entering into collaboration agreements with third parties for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, we intend to continue to explore opportunities to further enhance our discovery and development capabilities and develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing product candidates that fit within our expertise and research and development capabilities. We face substantial competition for in-licensing opportunities from companies focused on antiviral therapies, many of which may have greater resources than we do. Additional in-licensing agreements for product candidates may not be available to us or, if available, the terms may not be favorable. We may also need to license additional technologies in order to continue to develop our clinical pipeline. If we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license product candidates or technologies, or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our clinical pipeline may not contain a sufficient number of promising future product candidates and our research and development efforts could be delayed. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We licensed Racivir, one of our product candidates, from Emory University, and our rights to commercialize Racivir are subject to a right of first refusal held by Gilead, and uncertainties related to these rights may result in us being prevented from obtaining the expected economic benefits from developing Racivir. We licensed Racivir from Emory University in 1998 pursuant to an exclusive, worldwide license agreement to make, have made, use, import, offer for sale, and sell Racivir, referred to as the Racivir License Agreement. In a license agreement relating to emtricitabine that Emory entered into with Triangle Pharmaceuticals, now Gilead Sciences, Inc. in 1996, which we refer to as the Emory/Gilead License Agreement, Emory previously had granted a right of first refusal to Gilead that is applicable to any license or assignment relating to a specified range of mixtures of (–) – FTC and (+) – FTC, referred to as enriched FTC (which includes Racivir). The terms of this right of first refusal contains an exception permitting Emory to license or assign its rights in respect of enriched FTC to a permitted transferee, which includes any of the inventors (which included two of our founders) or to any corporate entity formed by or on behalf of the inventors for purposes of clinically developing enriched FTC so long as the licensee agrees in writing to be bound by the terms of Gilead’s right of first refusal to the same extent as Emory. Our license to Racivir was granted to us by Emory pursuant to this exception. Therefore, we are bound by the terms of Gilead’s right of first refusal to the same extent as Emory. The terms of this right of first refusal as set forth in the Emory/Gilead License Agreement require that, before the entry into any license or assignment agreement with a third party relating to any of Emory’s rights in respect of enriched FTC, Emory shall notify Gilead of the terms of the proposed agreement and provide a copy of the proposed agreement to Gilead together with all data and information in Emory’s possession relating to enriched FTC and its use as a therapeutic agent. Gilead has 30 days to accept or decline the offer. Although Emory considers us to be a permitted transferee under the Emory/Gilead License Agreement, Emory has taken the position that its grant of commercialization rights (i.e., the rights to offer for sale and sell Racivir) to us exceeded the rights that were permitted to be granted to a permitted transferee under its agreement with Gilead. While we believe that Gilead is aware of the Racivir License Agreement through both our and Emory’s communications with Gilead, Gilead has not contacted us regarding its interpretation of the terms of the Racivir License Agreement. In March 2004, we entered into a supplemental agreement with Emory in which we and Emory agreed that, before any commercialization of enriched FTC by us, or by any licensee or assignee of our rights under the Racivir License Agreement, we and Emory would adhere strictly to the terms of the right of first refusal granted to Gilead in the Emory/Gilead License Agreement and offer to Gilead the same terms and conditions under 40 Table of Contents which we, our licensee or our assignee, propose to commercialize enriched FTC. The supplemental agreement also outlines a procedure by which Emory and we would jointly offer the terms of a proposed license and commercialization agreement between us and a third party to Gilead after Emory has the opportunity to approve them. Therefore, before we could enter into a commercialization agreement for Racivir with a third party or commercialize Racivir on our own, we would be required to offer Gilead the opportunity to be our commercialization partner on the same terms on which we intend, or our prospective partner intends, to commercialize Racivir. It is uncertain whether a third party would be willing to negotiate the terms of a commercialization agreement with us knowing that Gilead can take their place as licensee by accepting the negotiated terms and exercising its right of first refusal. These uncertainties related to our commercialization rights may result in us being prevented from obtaining the expected economic benefits from developing Racivir. In addition, we could become involved in litigation or arbitration related to our commercialization rights to Racivir in the future. If we are unable to obtain and maintain adequate patent protection for our product candidates, we may be unable to commercialize our product candidates or to prevent other companies from using our intellectual property in competitive products in certain countries. Our commercial success will depend, in large part, on our ability and the ability of our licensors to obtain and maintain patents and proprietary intellectual property rights sufficient to prevent others from marketing our product candidates, as well as to successfully defend and enforce those patents against infringement and to avoid infringing the proprietary rights of others, both in the United States and in foreign countries. Roche and we have filed patent applications for RG7128, and we have filed and may in the future file our own patent applications for our other technology. We have also licensed certain patents, patent applications and other proprietary rights from third parties. We have licensed patents for Racivir. The patent covering the composition of matter for Racivir that we have licensed from Emory is scheduled to expire in September 2015. Except where precise dates are given, our current patent expiration dates do not take into account any patent term adjustments that may accrue due to procedural delays by the United States Patent and Trademark Office or patent term extensions that may accrue due to regulatory delays. Our patent position, like that of many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. We may not develop or obtain rights to products or processes that are patentable. Even if we or our licensors do obtain patents, such patents may not adequately protect the products or technologies we own or have licensed. In addition, we generally do not control the patent prosecution of subject matter that we license from others. Generally, the patent holders are primarily responsible for the patent prosecution and maintenance activities pertaining to the licensed patent applications and patents, while we are afforded opportunities to advise the primary licensors on such activities with respect to our licensed territories. Accordingly, we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we would over our own. Others may challenge, seek to invalidate, infringe, or circumvent any patents we own or license, and rights we receive under those patents may not provide competitive advantages to us. We cannot assure you as to the degree of protection that we will be afforded by any patents issued to, or licensed by, us. The laws of many countries may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws, and those countries may lack adequate rules and procedures for defending our intellectual property rights. For example, we may not be able to prevent a third party from infringing our patents in a country that does not recognize or enforce patent rights, or that imposes compulsory licenses on or restricts the prices of life-saving drugs. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. 41 Table of Contents The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain because legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. For example: • we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our or our licensors’ pending patent applications and issued patents, and we may have to participate in expensive and protracted interference proceedings to determine priority of invention; • we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • our or our licensors’ pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; • our or our licensors’ issued patents may not provide a basis for commercially viable products or may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties; • others may design around our or our licensors’ patent claims to produce competitive products which fall outside the scope of our or our licensors’ patents; or • the patents of others may prevent us from marketing one or more of our product candidates for one or more indications that may be valuable to our business strategy. An issued patent does not guarantee us the right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. Third parties may have or obtain rights to blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from commercializing our patented products and practicing our patented technology. Our issued patents and those that may be issued in the future may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to prevent competitors from marketing related product candidates or could limit the length of the term of patent protection of our product candidates. In addition, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology and our competitors may independently develop similar technologies. Moreover, because of the extensive time required for development, testing, and regulatory review of a potential product, it is possible that, before any of our product candidates can be commercialized, any related patent or potential patent extension may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization, thereby reducing any advantage of the patent. We may incur substantial costs or lose important rights as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property rights. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property rights, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings in the United States and elsewhere are costly and time-consuming and their outcome is uncertain. In general, there is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biopharmaceutical industry. Litigation may be necessary to: • assert or defend claims of infringement; • enforce patents we own or license; • protect trade secrets; or • determine the enforceability, scope, and validity of the proprietary rights of others. If we become involved in any litigation, interference, or other administrative proceeding, we will incur substantial expense and it will divert the efforts of our scientific and management personnel. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of litigation, interference, or other administrative proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace pending resolution of the disputed matters. An adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us to seek licenses that may not be available from third parties on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We or our collaborators may be restricted or prevented from developing and commercializing our products in the event of an adverse determination in a judicial or administrative proceeding or if we fail to obtain necessary licenses. In such event, we may attempt to redesign our processes or technologies so that they do not infringe, which may not be commercially reasonable or technically possible. 42 Table of Contents From time to time, we may become subject to third party intellectual property claims as part of our ordinary course of business. (See Item 3. Legal Proceedings.) While our product candidates are in clinical trials, we believe that the use of our product candidates in these clinical trials falls within the scope of the exemptions provided by 35 U.S.C. Section 271(e) in the United States, which exempts from patent infringement liability activities reasonably related to the development and submission of information to the FDA. As our product candidates progress toward commercialization, the possibility of a patent infringement claim against us increases. We attempt to ensure that our product candidates and the methods we employ to manufacture them, as well as the methods for their use we intend to promote, do not infringe other parties’ patents and other proprietary rights. There can be no assurance they do not, however, and competitors or other parties may assert that we infringe their proprietary rights in any event. If we find during clinical evaluation that our product candidates should be used in combination with a product that is covered by a patent held by another company or institution, and that a labeling instruction is required in product packaging recommending that combination, we could be accused of, or held liable for, infringement of the third-party patents covering the product recommended for co-administration with our product. In such a case, we could be required to obtain a license from the other company or institution to use the required or desired package labeling, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may be subject to claims that our board members, employees, or consultants or we have used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information belonging to third parties and any such individuals that are currently affiliated with one of our competitors may disclose our proprietary technology or information. As is commonplace in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, some of our board members, employees, and consultants are or have been employed at, or associated with, other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies that compete with us. While employed at or associated with these companies, these individuals may become exposed to or involved in research and technology similar to the areas of research and technology in which we are engaged. We may be subject to claims that we, or our employees, board members, or consultants have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed alleged trade secrets or other proprietary information of those companies. Litigation may be necessary to defend against such claims. We have entered into confidentiality agreements with all of our employees. However, we do not have, and are not planning to enter into, any confidentiality agreements with our directors because they have a fiduciary duty of confidentiality as directors. There is the possibility that any of our former board members, employees, or consultants who are currently employed at, or associated with, one of our competitors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary technology or information. The rights we rely upon to protect our unpatented trade secrets may be inadequate. We rely on unpatented trade secrets, know-how, and technology. This intellectual property is difficult to protect, especially in the pharmaceutical industry, where much of the information about a product must be made public during the regulatory approval process. We seek to protect trade secrets, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, and others. These parties may breach or terminate these agreements, and we may not have adequate remedies for such breaches. Furthermore, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information or result in the effective assignment to us of intellectual property, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information or other breaches of the agreements. Despite our efforts to protect our trade secrets, we or our collaboration partners, board members, employees, consultants, contractors, or scientific and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors. 43 Table of Contents There is a risk that our trade secrets could have been, or could, in the future, be shared by any of our former employees with and be used to the benefit of any company that competes with us. For example, a former director and founder of Pharmasset has, along with several of our former scientists, started a new pharmaceutical company to develop drugs to treat viral infections (including human retroviral and hepatitis infections), cancer, and dermatological conditions, which may compete with us in the future. These individuals left Pharmasset in 2005. We have a confidentiality agreement in place with our former director, and have both confidentiality agreements and covenant not to compete agreements in place with the former scientists. The term of the confidentiality agreements is indefinite with regard to any confidential information that is not subsequently made public. The covenant not to compete agreements expired on February 28, 2007. If we fail to maintain trade secret protection, our competitive position may be adversely affected. Competitors may also independently discover our trade secrets. Enforcement of claims that a third party has illegally obtained and is using trade secrets is expensive, time consuming, and uncertain. If our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods, and know-how, we would not be able to assert our trade secrets against them and our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Our Industry Our industry is extremely competitive. If our competitors develop and market products that are equally or more effective, safer, or more affordable than ours, or obtain marketing approval before we do, our commercial opportunities may be limited. Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries is intense and continues to increase, particularly in the area of antiviral drugs. Many companies are pursuing the development of novel drugs that target the same diseases we are targeting. There are a significant number of drugs that are approved or currently under development that will become available in the future for the treatment of HCV and other viral infections. If any of the product candidates that our competitors are developing are successful, we will have difficulty gaining market share. We face a broad range of current and potential competitors, from established global pharmaceutical companies with significant resources to development-stage companies. Listed below are some of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies developing compounds targeting HCV and other viral infections. Roche, Merck (formerly Schering-Plough), and Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals market alpha interferon, a component of the current standard of care, which is approved in several chemically modified forms. All three companies and several generic manufacturers market ribavirin, which is the other component of the current standard of care for HCV. Roche, Merck, and other companies, such as Abbott, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol Meyers Squibb, Gilead Sciences, Idenix, InterMune, Novartis/Human Genome Sciences, Pfizer and Vertex are also developing new drugs for the treatment of HCV. In addition, we face competition from academic and research institutions and government agencies for the discovery, development and, commercialization of novel therapeutics to treat HCV. Some early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Many of our competitors have: • significantly greater financial, technical, and human resources than we have and may be better equipped to develop, manufacture and market products; • more extensive experience in preclinical studies and clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and manufacturing and marketing products; and • products that have already been approved or are in the late stage of development and operate large, well-funded research and development programs. 44 Table of Contents Our competitors may succeed in developing or commercializing equally or more effective, safe, or affordable products, which would render our product candidates less competitive or noncompetitive. Our competitors may discover technologies and techniques, or enter into partnerships with collaborators, in order to develop competing products that are more effective or less costly than the products we develop. This may render our technology or products obsolete and noncompetitive. These competitors also compete with us to recruit and retain qualified scientific and management personnel, establish clinical trials sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as to acquire technologies and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. Moreover, competitors that are able to achieve patent protection, obtain regulatory approvals, and commence commercial sales of their products before we do, and competitors who have already done so, will enjoy a significant competitive advantage. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer. If we successfully develop and obtain approval for our product candidates, we will face competition for market share based on the safety and efficacy of our products, the timing and scope of regulatory approvals, the availability of supply, marketing and sales capability, reimbursement coverage, price, patent position, and other factors. The development of direct acting antivirals to treat HCV may present additional risks beyond those inherent in drug development. We are developing, alone and with collaborator(s), nucleoside/tides to treat HCV. The potential therapeutic regimens being tested or planned for testing include our nucleoside/tide in combination with: • the current standard of care (pegylated interferon and ribavirin); • pegylated interferon; • ribavirin; • the current standard of care plus a direct acting antivirial (such as InterMune’s protease inhibitor, in studies conducted and planned by Roche); and; • with one or more direct acting antivirals without concomitant interferon or ribavirin therapy; These development programs and planned studies carry all the risks inherent in drug development activities, including the risk that they will fail to show efficacy or acceptable safety. However, these development programs are subject to regulatory, commercial, manufacturing, and other risks that may be additional to the risks described above. For example, regulatory guidelines for approval of direct acting antiviral drugs are evolving in the United States, Europe, and other countries. We anticipate that regulatory guidelines and regulatory agency responses to our, our collaborators’, and our competitors’ development programs will continue to change, resulting in the risk that our and our collaborators’ activities may not meet unanticipated new standards or requirements, which could lead to delay, additional expense, or potential failure of development activities. Our development programs, in addition, involve testing product candidates alone and in combination with approved drugs and with currently unapproved product candidates, the latter of which increases the risk of significant adverse effects or test failures. The timing, outcome, and cost of such testing are difficult to predict and dependent on a number of factors that are outside our reasonable control. To the extent that we, our collaborator, or our competitors successfully develop direct acting antivirals whose use improves the current standard of care or results in “interferon-sparing” treatment regimens, current HCV-treating physicians, HCV patients, healthcare payers, and others may not readily accept or pay for such improvements or new treatments. Because direct acting antivirals is an emerging field, the delay or failure of a competitor attempting to develop therapeutics that could have been combined with our product candidates or that are perceived to be similar to our product candidates could have a significant adverse effect on the commercial or regulatory environment for our product candidates or on the price of our stock. As we note elsewhere, other companies developing direct acting antivirals have more advanced development programs than we do. Their success or failure to successfully conclude clinical development and obtain marketing approval could have a material adverse affect on our development and commercialization plans and activities. 45 Table of Contents If third-party payers do not adequately reimburse patients for any of our product candidates, that are approved for marketing, we may not be successful in selling them. Our ability to commercialize any products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement will be available from governmental and other third-party payers, both in the United States and in foreign markets. Even if we succeed in bringing one or more products to the market, the amount reimbursed for our products may be insufficient to allow our products to compete effectively with products that are reimbursed at a higher level. If the price we are able to charge for any products we develop is inadequate in light of our development costs, our profitability could be adversely affected. Reimbursement by governmental and other third-party payers may depend upon a number of factors, including the governmental and other third-party payers’ determination that the use of a product is: • a covered benefit under their health plan or part of their formulary; • safe, effective, and medically necessary; • appropriate for the specific patient; • cost-effective; and • neither experimental nor investigational. Obtaining reimbursement approval for a product from each third-party and government payer is a time-consuming and costly process that could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical, and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payer. We may not be able to provide data sufficient to obtain reimbursement. Eligibility for coverage does not imply that any drug product will be reimbursed in all cases or at a rate that allows us to make a profit. Interim payments for new products, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not become permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost drugs that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or Medicare or Medicaid data used to calculate these rates. Net prices for products also may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs or by any future relaxation of laws that restrict imports of certain medical products from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. The health care industry is experiencing a trend toward containing or reducing costs through various means, including lowering reimbursement rates, limiting therapeutic class coverage, and negotiating reduced payment schedules with service providers for drug products. The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, created a broader prescription drug benefit for Medicare beneficiaries. The MMA also contains provisions intended to reduce or eliminate delays in the introduction of generic drug competition at the end of patent or nonpatent market exclusivity. The impact of the MMA on drug prices and new drug utilization in the future is unknown. The MMA also made adjustments to the physician fee schedule and the measure by which prescription drugs are presently paid. The effects of these changes are unknown but may include decreased utilization of new medicines in physician prescribing patterns, and further pressure on drug company sponsors to provide discount programs and reimbursement support programs. There have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, federal and state proposals to constrain expenditures for medical products and services, which may affect reimbursement levels for our future products. In addition, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services frequently change product descriptors, coverage policies, product and service codes, payment methodologies, and reimbursement values. Third-party payers often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates and may have sufficient market power to demand significant price reductions. Future legislation may also limit the prices that can be charged for drugs we develop. 46 Table of Contents Foreign governments tend to impose strict price controls which may adversely affect our future profitability. In most foreign countries, particularly in the European Union, prescription drug pricing and/or reimbursement is subject to governmental control. In those countries that impose price controls, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, or if there is competition from lower priced cross-border sales, our profitability will be negatively affected. Even if we achieve market acceptance for our products, we may experience downward pricing pressure on the price of our drugs because of generic and biosimilar competition and social pressure to lower the cost of drugs to treat HIV and HCV. Several of the FDA-approved individual and combination products face patent expiration in the next several years. As a result, generic versions and biosimilars of these drugs and biologicals may become available. We expect to face competition from these products, including price-based competition. Pressure from AIDS awareness and other social activist groups to reduce HIV drug prices may also put downward pressure on the prices of HIV drugs, including Racivir if it is commercialized. Similar trends of generic competition or social pressure may occur for HCV, which would result in downward pressure on the price for RG7128, PSI-7851, PSI-938, or PSI-879, if they are commercialized. We face a risk of product liability claims and, if we are not able to obtain adequate liability insurance, a product liability claim could result in substantial liabilities. Our business exposes us to the risk of significant potential product liability claims that are inherent in the manufacturing, testing, and marketing of human therapeutic products, and we will face a greater risk if our Collaborator(s) or we sell any products commercially. Regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in: • delay or failure to complete our clinical trials; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants and difficulty in recruiting participants; • inability to commercialize our product candidates; • decreased demand for our product candidates; • injury to our reputation; • inability to establish new collaborations; • litigation costs; • substantial monetary awards against us; and • diversion of management or other resources from key aspects of our operations. Product liability claims could result in an FDA or other regulatory authority investigation of the safety or efficacy of our products, our manufacturing processes and facilities, our marketing programs, our internal safety reporting systems or our staff conduct. A regulatory authority investigation could also potentially lead to a recall of our products or more serious enforcement actions, limitations on the indications, for which they may be used, or suspension, or withdrawal of approval. 47 Table of Contents We currently have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials for up to $15.0 million for each occurrence and up to a $15.0 million annual aggregate limit, subject to deductibles of $50,000 per occurrence and $250,000 annual aggregate limit and coverage limitations. We intend to increase our insurance coverage and include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained. Because insurance coverage is becoming increasingly expensive, we may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential product liabilities at a reasonable cost or at all, and the insurance coverage that we obtain may not be adequate to cover potential claims or losses. We may incur significant costs to comply with laws regulating the protection of health and human safety and the environment, and failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to significant liabilities. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of numerous hazardous materials, chemicals, and radioactive materials which produce waste products. We are subject to federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and may be subject to foreign laws and regulations, governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and waste products, including certain regulations promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA. Our regulatory applications will include the request for an exemption to an environmental assessment for the impact of the product, materials, and processes subject to the application. The request could be denied, resulting in potentially substantial delays to our development time lines. The EPA regulations to which we are subject require that we register with the EPA as a generator of hazardous waste. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from the handling, transporting, and disposing of hazardous materials and waste products cannot be entirely eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health, and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposures to blood-borne pathogens, and the handling, transporting, and disposing of biohazardous or radioactive materials. Although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for the costs and expenses we may incur if our employees are injured as a result of using these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We do not maintain, nor do we plan to obtain, additional insurance coverage relating to damage claims arising from our use of hazardous materials. Further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products. Compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. Future changes to environmental, health, workplace, and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expenses or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development, and production efforts. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our stock price is volatile. The stock market in general and the market for clinical-stage pharmaceutical stocks in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. The volume and price per share of our common stock may be negatively affected by the results or activities of investors, which may be unrelated to our operating performance. In addition, broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the volume or trading price for our common stock. In this market environment, the sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market or the perception that such a sale might occur would likely have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. A number of investors hold relatively large positions in our securities. Particularly in light of the relatively low volume of trading in our common stock during many trading sessions, a decision by any of these investors to sell all or a block of its holdings of our common stock could cause our stock price to drop significantly. 48 Table of Contents The market also continues to experience significant price and volume fluctuations, some of which are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Since our IPO, the price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may continue to do so in the future. Many factors could have a significant effect on the market price for our common stock, including: • adverse results or delays in our preclinical studies or clinical trials or the clinical trials of our collaborator(s) or others in the industry, including our competitors; • announcements of FDA or foreign regulatory non-approval of our product candidates, or delays in the FDA or other foreign regulatory agency review process; • adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our product candidates, clinical trials, manufacturing processes, or sales and marketing activities; • introductions or announcements of new products or technological innovations or pricing by our competitors; • the loss of a significant collaborator; • disputes or other developments relating to proprietary rights, including patents, litigation matters, and our ability to patent our product candidates and technologies; • changes in estimates of our financial performance by securities analysts or failure to meet or exceed securities analysts’ or investors’ expectations of our annual or quarterly financial results, clinical results, or our achievement of any milestones or changes in securities analysts’ recommendations regarding our common stock or other comparable companies or our industry generally; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies or of the markets generally; • changes in accounting principles; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, or the expectation that such sales may occur, including sales by our executive officers, directors, and significant stockholders; • issuance of new shares of common stock in future offerings; • issuance of convertible debt, or warrants or stock options; • discussion of our business, products, financial performance, prospects, or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and online investor communities, such as chat rooms; • regulatory developments in the United States and abroad; • third-party healthcare reimbursement policies; • conditions or trends in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; • departures of key personnel; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, clinical trial results, joint ventures, or capital commitments; and • actual or anticipated variations in our annual or quarterly operating results. Any litigation brought against us as a result of this volatility could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations, and the price of our common stock. If we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities in a fluctuating market, many or all of our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution, and if we need to raise capital by issuing equity securities at a 49 Table of Contents time when our stock price is lower, we may have difficulty raising sufficient capital to meet our requirements. If any of the risks described in these “RISK FACTORS” occurred, or if any unforeseen risk affected our performance, it could have a dramatic and adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law could delay or discourage another company from acquiring us and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law may discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable. In addition, these provisions could make it more difficult for our stockholders to replace or remove our board of directors. These provisions include: • the application of a Delaware law prohibiting us from entering into a business combination with the beneficial owner of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock for a period of three years after such 15% or greater owner first reached that level of stock ownership, unless we meet specified criteria; • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock with rights that may be senior to those of our common stock without any further vote or action by the holders of our common stock; • providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms; • requiring that our stockholders provide advance notice when nominating our directors or proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholders’ meetings; • eliminating the ability of our stockholders to convene a stockholders’ meeting; and • prohibiting our stockholders from acting by written consent. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 