Item 1A. Risk Factors Any change in coal consumption patterns by steel producers or North American electric power generators resulting in a decrease in the use of coal by those consumers could result in lower prices for our coal, which would reduce our revenues and adversely impact our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. Steam coal accounted for approximately 83% and 58% of our coal sales volume during 2009 and 2008, respectively. The majority of our sales of steam coal were to U.S. and Canadian electric power generators. The amount of coal consumed for U.S. and Canadian electric power generation is affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, the location, availability, quality and price of competing fuels for power such as natural gas, nuclear, fuel oil and alternative energy sources such as hydroelectric power, technological developments, and environmental and other governmental regulations. We expect many new power plants will be built to produce electricity during peak periods of demand, when the demand for electricity rises above the “base load demand,” or minimum amount of electricity required if consumption occurred at a steady rate. However, we also expect that many of these new power plants will be fired by natural gas because they are cheaper to construct than coal-fired plants and because natural gas is a cleaner burning fuel with plentiful supplies at the current time. In addition, the increasingly stringent requirements of the Clean Air Act may result in more electric power generators shifting from coal to natural gas-fired power plants. Any reduction in the amount of coal consumed by North American electric power generators could reduce the price of steam coal that we mine and sell, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. We produce metallurgical coal that is used in both the U.S. and foreign steel industries. Metallurgical coal accounted for approximately 17% and 42% of our coal sales volume during 2009 and 2008, respectively. Any deterioration in conditions in the U.S. steel industry would reduce the demand for our metallurgical coal and could impact the collectability of our accounts receivable from U.S. steel industry customers. In addition, the U.S. steel industry increasingly relies on electric arc furnaces or pulverized coal processes to make steel. These processes do not use coke. If this trend continues, the amount of metallurgical coal that we sell and the prices that we receive for it could decrease, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. If the demand and pricing for metallurgical coal in international markets decreases in the future, the amount of metallurgical coal that we sell and the prices that we receive for it could decrease, thereby reducing our revenues and adversely impacting our earnings and the value of our coal reserves. A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could reduce our revenues and the value of our coal reserves. Our results of operations are substantially dependent upon the prices we receive for our coal. The prices we receive for coal depend upon factors beyond our control, including: • the supply of and demand for domestic and foreign coal; • the demand for electricity; • domestic and foreign demand for steel and the continued financial viability of the domestic and foreign steel industry; • interruptions due to transportation delays; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • air emission standards for coal-fired power plants; • regulatory, administrative, and judicial decisions; • the price and availability of alternative fuels, including the effects of technological developments; • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; and • the proximity to, capacity of, and cost of transportation and port facilities. Declines in the prices we receive for our coal could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to generate the cash flows we require to improve our productivity and invest in our operations. The government extensively regulates our mining operations, which imposes significant actual and potential costs on us, and future regulations could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental, health and safety, transportation, labor and other laws and regulations. Examples include those relating to employee health and safety; emissions to air and discharges to water; plant and wildlife protection; the reclamation and restoration of properties after mining or other activity has been completed; the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes; remediation of contaminated soil, surface and groundwater; surface subsidence from underground mining; noise; and the effects of operations on surface water and groundwater quality and availability. In addition, we are subject to significant legislation mandating certain benefits for current and retired coal miners. We incur substantial costs to comply with the laws and regulations that apply to our mining and other operations. Because of extensive and comprehensive regulatory requirements, violations of laws, regulations and permits occur at our operations from time to time and may result in significant costs to us to correct such violations, as well as civil or criminal penalties and limitations or shutdowns of our operations. 28 Table of Contents These laws and regulations require us to obtain numerous governmental permits. Many of our permits are subject to renewal from time to time, and renewed permits may contain more restrictive conditions than our existing permits. Many of our permits governing discharges to or impacts upon surface streams and groundwater will be subject to new and more stringent conditions to address various new water quality requirements that permitting authorities are now required to address when those permits are renewed over the next several years. To obtain new permits, we may have to petition to have stream quality designations changed based on available data, and if we are unsuccessful we may not be able to operate the planned facility or to operate as planned. Although we have no estimates at this time, our costs to satisfy such conditions could be substantial. We may also be required under certain permits to provide authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that a proposed exploration for or production of coal may have on the environment. In recent years, the permitting required under the Clean Water Act to address filling ephemeral and intermittent streams and other valleys with materials from mountaintop coal mining operations and preparation plant refuse disposal has been the subject of extensive litigation by environmental groups against coal mining companies and environmental regulatory authorities, as well as regulatory changes by legislative initiatives in the U.S. Congress. It is unclear at this time how the issues will ultimately be resolved, but for this as well as other issues that may arise involving permits necessary for coal mining and other operation, such requirements could prove costly and time-consuming, and could delay commencing or continuing exploration or production operations. New laws and regulations, as well as future interpretations or different enforcement of existing laws and regulations, may require substantial increases in equipment and operating costs to us and delays, interruptions or a termination of operations, the extent of which we cannot predict. In September 2009, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) announced it had identified 79 pending permit applications for Appalachian surface coal mining, under a coordination process with the Army Corps of Engineers (the “COE”) and the United States Department of the Interior entered into in June 2009, that the EPA believes warrant further review because of its continuing concerns about water quality and/or regulatory compliance issues. These included five of our permit applications, two of which we have withdrawn. While the EPA has stated that its identification of these 79 permit applications does not constitute a determination that the mining involved cannot be permitted under the Clean Water Act and does not constitute a final recommendation from the EPA to the COE on these projects, it is uncertain how long the further review will take for our three subject permit applications or what the final outcome will be. It is also unclear what impact this process may have on our future applications for surface coal mining permits and surface facilities at underground mines. Extensive regulation of these matters has had and will continue to have a significant effect on our costs of production and competitive position. Further legislation, regulations or enforcement may also cause our sales or profitability to decline by hindering our ability to continue our mining operations, by increasing our costs or by causing coal to become a less attractive fuel source. Climate change initiatives could significantly reduce the demand for coal, increase our costs and reduce the value of our coal and gas assets. Global climate change continues to attract considerable public and scientific attention with widespread concern about the impacts of human activity, especially the emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide and methane. Combustion of fossil fuels, such as the coal and gas we produce, results in the creation of carbon dioxide that is currently emitted into the atmosphere by coal and gas end users, such as coal-fired electric generation power plants. Our underground mines emit methane, which must be expelled for safety reasons. Numerous proposals have been made and are likely to continue to be made at the international, national, regional and state levels of government that are intended to limit emissions of greenhouse gases.The United States and more than 160 other nations are signatories to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is intended to limit emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide which is a major by-product of burning coal. Since 1992, numerous conferences have been held among the participants, the goals of which were to agree on a plan to reduce emissions of gasses that are considered to cause global warming, including the most recent conference in Copenhagen in December 2009. However, there have been no agreements to date. Such an agreement, if consummated, will likely have significant, but undetermined, impacts on the demand for coal U.S. legislative and regulatory action also may address greenhouse gas emissions. In June 2009, the Waxman-Markey bill, which would establish a cap-and-trade program designed to achieve substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, passed the U.S. House of Representatives. Similar legislation currently is under consideration in the U.S. Senate. The EPA also has commenced regulatory action that could lead to controls on carbon dioxide from larger emitters such as coal-fired power plants and industrial sources. In advance of federal action, state and regional climate change initiatives, such as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative of eastern states, the Western Regional Climate Action Initiative, and recently enacted legislation in California and other states are taking effect before federal action. In addition, some states and municipalities in the United States have adopted or may adopt in the future regulations on greenhouse gas emissions. Some states and municipal entities have commenced litigation in different jurisdictions seeking to have certain utilities, including some of our customers, reduce their emission of carbon dioxide. President Obama has pledged to implement an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 80 percent by 2050. He also pledged the United States to be a world leader on greenhouse gas reduction and re-engage with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to develop a global greenhouse gas program. Apart from governmental regulation, in February 2008, three of Wall Street’s largest investment banks announced that they had adopted climate change guidelines for lenders. The guidelines require the evaluation of carbon risks in the financing of utility power plants which may make it more difficult for utilities to obtain financing for coal-fired plants. 29 Table of Contents Considerable uncertainty is associated with these climate change initiatives. The content of new treaties, legislation or regulation is not yet determined, and many of the new regulatory initiatives remain subject to review by the agencies or the courts. Predicting the economic effects of climate change legislation is difficult given the various alternatives proposed and the complexities of the interactions between economic and environmental issues. Any regulations on greenhouse gas emissions, however, are likely to impose significant emissions control expenditures on many coal-fired power plants and industrial boilers and could have the effect of making them unprofitable. As a result, these generators may switch to other fuels that generate less of these emissions, possibly reducing future demand for coal and the construction of coal-fired power plants. In this regard, many of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser’s plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use to comply with applicable ambient air quality standards. Any switching of fuel sources away from coal, closure of existing coal-fired plants, or reduced construction of new plants could have a material adverse effect on demand for and prices received for our coal and a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, if regulation of greenhouse gas emissions does not exempt the release of coalbed methane, we may have to curtail coal production, pay higher taxes, or incur costs to purchase credits that permit us to continue operations as they now exist at our underground coal mines. Other extensive environmental regulations also could affect our customers and could reduce the demand for coal as a fuel source and cause our sales to decline. The operations of our customers are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to emissions to air and discharges to water, plant and wildlife protection, the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes, and permitting of operations. These requirements are a significant part of the costs of their respective businesses, and their costs are increasing as environmental requirements become more stringent. These requirements could adversely affect our sales by causing coal to become a less attractive fuel source of energy. In particular, the Clean Air Act and similar state and local laws extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants, which are the largest end-users of our coal. A series of more stringent requirements are expected to become effective in coming years. These requirements include implementation of the current and more stringent proposed ambient air quality standards for particulate matter and ozone, implementation of and forthcoming revisions to the Clean Air Interstate rule governing emission levels of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, and the EPA’s projected rule to limit emissions of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants from power plants. Such requirements may require significant emissions control expenditures for coal-fired power plants. Any switching of fuel sources away from coal, closure of existing coal-fired plants, or reduced construction of new plants could have a material effect on demand for and prices received for our coal. MSHA and state regulators may order certain of our mines to be temporarily closed or operations therein modified, which would adversely affect our ability to meet our contracts or projected costs. MSHA and state regulators may order certain of our mines to be temporarily closed due to an investigation of an accident resulting in property damage or injuries, or due to other incidents such as fires, roof falls, water flow, equipment failure or ventilation concerns. In addition, regulators may order changes to mine plans or operations due to their interpretation or application of existing or new laws or regulations. Any required changes to mine plans or operations may result in temporary idling of production or addition of costs. 30 Table of Contents Our coal mining production and delivery is subject to conditions and events beyond our control, which could result in higher operating expenses and decreased production and sales and adversely affect our operating results and could result in impairments to our assets. A majority of our coal mining operations are conducted in underground mines and the balance of our operations is at surface mines. The level of our production at these mines is subject to operating conditions and events beyond our control that could disrupt operations, affect production and the cost of mining at particular mines for varying lengths of time and have a significant impact on our operating results. Adverse operating conditions and events that we have experienced in the past include: • enactment of new environmental or health and safety laws or regulations or changes in interpretations of current requirements; • delays and difficulties in obtaining, maintaining or renewing necessary permits or mining or surface rights; • the termination of material contracts by state or other governmental authorities; • changes or variations in geologic conditions, such as the thickness of the coal deposits and the amount of rock embedded in or overlying the coal deposit; • mining, processing and loading equipment failures and unexpected maintenance problems; • limited availability of mining, processing and loading equipment and parts from suppliers; • the proximity to, capacity of, and cost of transportation facilities; • adverse weather and natural disasters, such as heavy snows, heavy rains and flooding or hurricanes; • accidental mine water discharges; • the unavailability of qualified labor; • strikes and other labor-related interruptions; and • unexpected mine safety accidents, including fires and explosions from methane and other sources. If any of these conditions or events occur in the future at any of our mines or affect deliveries of our coal to customers, they may increase our cost of mining and delay or halt production at particular mines or sales to our customers either permanently or for varying lengths of time, which could adversely affect our operating results and could result in impairments to our assets. We may be unable to obtain and renew permits necessary for our operations, which would reduce our production, cash flow and profitability. Mining companies must obtain numerous permits that impose strict conditions on various environmental and safety matters in connection with coal mining. These include permits issued by various federal and state agencies and regulatory bodies. The permitting rules are complex and may change over time, making our ability to comply with the applicable requirements more difficult or impractical, possibly precluding the continuance of ongoing operations or the development of future mining operations. The public, including special interest groups and individuals, have certain rights under various statutes to comment upon, submit objections to, and otherwise engage in the permitting process, including bringing citizens’ lawsuits to challenge such permits or mining activities. Accordingly, required permits may not be issued or renewed in a timely fashion (or at all), or permits issued or renewed may be conditioned in a manner that may restrict our ability to efficiently conduct our mining activities. Such inefficiencies would likely reduce our production, cash flow, and profitability. In particular, certain of our activities involving valley fills, ponds or impoundments, refuse, road building, placement of excess material, and other mine development activities require a Section 404 dredge and fill permit from the Army Corps of Engineers (“COE”) and a Section 401 certification or its equivalent from the state in which the mining activities are proposed. In recent years, the Section 404 permitting process has faced a series of court challenges that have resulted in increased costs and delays in the permitting process. Future challenges or changes to the permitting process could cause additional increases in the costs, time, and difficulty associated with obtaining and complying with the permits, and could, as a result, adversely affect our coal production. Our operations may impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have environmental contamination, which could result in material liabilities to us. Our operations currently use hazardous materials, and from time to time we generate limited quantities of hazardous wastes. We and our acquired companies also utilized certain hazardous materials and generated similar wastes. We may be subject to claims under federal or state statutes or common law doctrines for toxic torts, natural resource damages and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, sediments, groundwater, and other natural resources. Such claims may arise out of current or former conditions at sites that we own or operate currently, as well as at sites that we and our acquired companies owned or operated in the past, and at contaminated sites that have always been owned or operated by third parties. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. We maintain extensive coal slurry impoundments at a number of our mines. Such impoundments are subject to extensive regulation. Slurry impoundments maintained by other coal mining operations have been known to fail, causing extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages. Some of our impoundments overlie mined out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. The recent failure of the fly ash impoundment at the Tennessee Valley Authority’s Kingston Power Plant, which is not regulated in the same manner as our slurry impoundments, could result in additional scrutiny of our impoundments. These and other unforeseen environmental impacts that our operations may have, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations, could result in costs and liabilities that could materially and adversely affect our business. Also, see Item 1 “Business-Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters” for discussion related to “Superfund” and “RCRA.” 31 Table of Contents Mining in Central and Northern Appalachia is more complex and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in other areas of the United States, which could affect our mining operations and cost structures in these areas. The geological characteristics of Central and Northern Appalachian coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. In addition, as compared to mines in the Powder River Basin, permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements are more costly and time consuming to satisfy. These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of, and our customers’ ability to use coal produced by, our mines in Central and Northern Appalachia. Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect our ability to sell coal, and excess production capacity in the industry could put downward pressure on coal prices. We compete with numerous other coal producers in various regions of the United States for domestic and international sales. Recent increases in coal prices could encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal producers. Any resulting overcapacity could reduce coal prices and therefore reduce our revenues. Demand for our higher sulfur coal and the price that we can obtain for it is impacted by, among other things, the changing laws with respect to allowable emissions and the price of emission allowances. Significant increases in the price of those allowances could reduce the competitiveness of higher sulfur coal at plants not equipped to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions. Competition from low sulfur coal and possibly natural gas could result in a decrease in the higher-sulfur coal market share and revenues from some of our operations. Demand for our low sulfur coal and the prices that we can obtain for it are also affected by, among other things, the price of emissions allowances. Decreases in the prices of these emissions allowances could make low sulfur coal less attractive to our customers. In addition, more widespread installation by electric utilities of technology that reduces sulfur emissions (which could be accelerated by increases in the prices of emissions allowances), may make high sulfur coal more competitive with our low sulfur coal. This competition could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We also compete in international markets against coal produced in other countries. Measured by tons sold, exports accounted for approximately 14% of our sales in 2009. The demand for U.S. coal exports is dependent upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the overall demand for electricity in foreign markets, currency exchange rates, the demand for foreign-produced steel both in foreign markets and in the U.S. market (which is dependent in part on tariff rates on steel), general economic conditions in foreign countries, technological developments, and environmental and other governmental regulations. For example, if the value of the U.S. dollar were to rise against other currencies in the future, our coal would become relatively more expensive and less competitive in international markets, which could reduce our foreign sales and negatively impact our revenues and net income. In addition, if the amount of coal exported from the United States were to decline, this decline could cause competition among coal producers in the United States to intensify, potentially resulting in additional downward pressure on domestic coal prices. Overcapacity in the coal industry, both domestically and internationally, may affect the price we receive for our coal. For example, in the past, increased demand for coal and attractive pricing brought new investors to the coal industry and promoted the development of new mines. These factors resulted in added production capacity throughout the industry, which led to increased competition and lower coal prices. We face numerous uncertainties in estimating our economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability. We base our reserve information on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff, which includes various engineers and geologists, and which is periodically reviewed by outside firms. The reserve estimates as to both quantity and quality are annually updated to reflect production of coal from the reserves and new drilling, engineering or other data received. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves and net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as geological and mining conditions which may not be fully identified by available exploration data or which may differ from experience in current operations, historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing areas, the assumed effects of regulation and taxes by governmental agencies and assumptions concerning coal prices, operating costs, mining technology improvements, severance and excise tax, development costs and reclamation costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. 32 Table of Contents For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities and qualities attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of net cash flows expected from particular reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties and revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves may vary materially from estimates. These estimates thus may not accurately reflect our actual reserves. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our reserves could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our ability to operate our business and implement our strategies depends, in part, on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. In addition, our future success will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract and retain other qualified personnel. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees or the inability to attract or retain other qualified personnel in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business or business prospects. Due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposure under those plans that extend beyond what our obligation would be with respect to our employees. We contribute to two multi-employer defined benefit pension plans administered by the UMWA. In 2009, our total contributions to these plans and other contractual payments under our UMWA wage agreement were approximately $8.4 million. In the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by us from any plan which is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Based on the information available from plan administrators, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination would be material to our financial position and results of operations. In the event that any other contributing employer withdraws from any plan which is underfunded, and such employer (or any member in its controlled group) cannot satisfy its obligations under the plan at the time of withdrawal, then we, along with the other remaining contributing employers, would be liable for our proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (“Pension Act”) requires a minimum funding ratio of 80% be maintained for this multi-employer pension plan and if the plan is determined to have a funding ratio of less than 80%, it will be deemed to be “endangered”, and if less than 65% it will deemed to be “critical”, and in either case will be subject to additional funding requirements. Based on an estimated funding percentage of 91.4%, a certification was provided by the multi-employer plan actuary, stating that the plan is in neither “endangered” nor “critical” status for the plan year beginning July 1, 2008. If a subsequent estimate of the funding ratio performed by the multi-employer plan actuary were to deem the plan to be in “endangered” or “critical” status, such a determination would require certain of our subsidiaries to make additional contributions pursuant to a funding improvement plan implemented in accordance with the Pension Act, and, therefore, could have a material impact on our operating results. Our defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded and we may have to make significant cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. We sponsor defined benefit pension plans in the United States for certain salaried and non-union hourly employees. For these plans, the Pension Protection Act (“PPA”) generally establishes a funding target of 100% of the present value of accrued benefits. The PPA includes a funding target phase-in provision such that the funding target is 92% in 2008, 94% in 2009, 96% in 2010 and 100% thereafter. Generally, a plan with a funding ratio below the prescribed target is subject to additional contributions requirements (amortization of funding shortfalls). Furthermore, any such plan with a funding ratio of less than 80% will be deemed at risk and will be subject to even higher funding requirements under the PPA. The current volatile economic environment and the rapid deterioration in the equity markets since July 1, 2008 caused investment income and the value of existing assets held in our pension trust to decline. As a result, we may be required to make significant cash contributions into the pension trust in order to comply with the funding requirements of the Pension Act. In 2009 we contributed approximately $22.7 million to our pension plans. We currently expect to make contributions in 2010 of approximately $30.0 million to maintain at least an 80% funding ratio. As of December 31, 2009, our annual measurement date, our salaried and hourly pension plans were underfunded by $86.5 million (based on the actuarial assumptions used for Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, (“ASC 715”). These pension plans are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). Under ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, has the authority to terminate an underfunded pension plan under limited circumstances. In the event our U.S. pension plans are terminated for any reason while the plans are underfunded, we may incur a liability to the PBGC that could exceed the entire amount of the underfunding. 33 Table of Contents Our work force could become increasingly unionized in the future and our unionized or union-free hourly work force could strike, which could adversely affect the stability of our production and reduce our profitability. Approximately 87% of our 2009 coal production came from mines operated by union-free employees. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 79% of our employees are union-free. However, our subsidiaries’ employees have the right at any time under the National Labor Relations Act to form or affiliate with a union. Any further unionization of our subsidiaries’ employees, or the employees of third-party contractors who mine coal for us, could adversely affect the stability of our production and reduce our profitability. Two of our Pennsylvania subsidiaries have separate wage agreements with the United Mine Workers of America (“UMWA”). Their existing wage agreements cover 1,113 (571 and 542, respectively) employees, and both wage agreements will expire at the end of the fourth quarter of 2011. Additionally, there is an agreement between Emerald Coal Resources, LP (“Emerald”) and the UMWA on behalf of the five employees working at the warehouse for Emerald, which expires at the end of the fourth quarter of 2011. Another Pennsylvania subsidiary has a wage agreement with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (“IBEW”) covering 8 employees. One of our Virginia subsidiaries has two contracts with the UMWA that cover 234 employees. Those contracts were terminated by the employer on December 31, 2009, and the parties are currently engaged in good faith bargaining for new wage agreements. One of our West Virginia subsidiaries has a wage agreement with the UMWA, covering 16 employees. Also, another West Virginia subsidiary, which is idle, has a wage agreement with the UMWA that could be terminated by our subsidiary or the UMWA with notice but since it is idle, no employees are affected at this time. However, if the operation becomes active again, these employees could be affected. The hourly workforce at the Wabash mine in southern Illinois was represented by the UMWA prior to its idling in 2007. The effects of the idling were the subject of an agreement with the UMWA signed in April 2007. As is the case with our union-free operations, the UMWA and IBEW represented employees could strike, which would disrupt our production, increase our costs, and disrupt shipments of coal to our customers, or result in the closure of affected mines due to a strike by the workers or a lockout by mine management, which could reduce our profitability. A shortage of skilled labor in the mining industry could pose a risk to achieving improved labor productivity and competitive costs and could adversely affect our profitability. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers, preferably with at least a year of experience and proficiency in multiple mining tasks. In recent years, a shortage of trained coal miners in the mining industry has caused us to operate certain units without full staff, which decreases our productivity and increases our costs. If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our coal, which could adversely affect our profitability. Acquisitions that we have completed since our formation, as well as acquisitions that we may undertake in the future, involve a number of risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits. We continually seek to expand our operations and coal reserves through acquisitions. In the past five years, we have completed significant acquisitions and several smaller acquisitions and investments. Our ability to complete acquisitions is subject to availability of attractive targets on terms acceptable to us and general market conditions, among other things. If we are unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or properties that we acquire, our profitability may decline and we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Acquisition transactions involve various inherent risks, including: • uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths, and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental or mine safety liabilities) of, acquisition candidates; • the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; • the ability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies from an acquisition in the amounts and on the timeframe; • problems that could arise from the integration of the acquired business, including the application of our internal control processes to the acquired business; and • unanticipated changes in business, industry, market, or general economic conditions that differ from the assumptions underlying our rationale for pursuing the acquisition. Any one or more of these factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from an acquisition. 34 Table of Contents Moreover, any acquisition opportunities we pursue could materially affect our liquidity and capital resources and may require us to incur indebtedness, seek equity capital or both. Future acquisitions could also result in our assuming more long-term liabilities relative to the value of the acquired assets than we have assumed in our previous acquisitions. Further, new acquisition accounting rules adopted January 1, 2009 require changes in certain assumptions made subsequent to the measurement period as defined in current accounting standards, to be recorded in current period earnings, which could affect our results of operations. Changes in purchasing patterns in the coal industry may make it difficult for us to extend existing supply contracts or enter into new long-term supply contracts with customers, which could adversely affect the capability and profitability of our operations. We sell a significant portion of our coal under long-term coal supply agreements, which are contracts with a term greater than 12 months. The execution of a satisfactory long-term coal supply agreement is frequently the basis on which we undertake the development of coal reserves required to be supplied under the contract. During 2009, approximately 71% and 55% of our steam and metallurgical coal sales volume, respectively, was delivered pursuant to long-term contracts. At December 31, 2009, our long-term coal supply agreements had remaining terms of up to eight years and an average remaining term of approximately two years. When our current contracts with customers expire or are otherwise renegotiated, our customers may decide to purchase fewer tons of coal than in the past or on different terms, including pricing terms less favorable to us. For additional information relating to our long-term coal supply contracts, see “Business — Marketing, Sales and Customer Contracts.” As of February 8, 2010, approximately 3% and 25%, respectively, of our planned production for 2010 and 2011 was uncommitted. We may not be able to enter into coal supply agreements to sell this production on terms, including pricing terms, as favorable to us as our existing agreements. As electric utilities continue to adjust to frequently changing regulations, including the Acid Rain regulations of the Clean Air Act, the Clean Air Mercury Rule, the Clean Air Interstate Rule and the possible deregulation of their industry, they are becoming increasingly less willing to enter into long-term coal supply contracts and instead are purchasing higher percentages of coal under short-term supply contracts. The industry shift away from long-term supply contracts could adversely affect us and the level of our revenues. For example, fewer electric utilities will have a contractual obligation to purchase coal from us, thereby increasing the risk that we will not have a market for our production. The prices we receive in the spot market may be less than the contractual price an electric utility is willing to pay for a committed supply. Furthermore, spot market prices tend to be more volatile than contractual prices, which could result in decreased revenues. Certain provisions in our long-term supply contracts may reduce the protection these contracts provide us during adverse economic conditions or may result in economic penalties upon our failure to meet specifications. Price adjustment, “price reopener” and other similar provisions in long-term supply contracts may reduce the protection from short-term coal price volatility traditionally provided by these contracts. Price reopener provisions are particularly common in international metallurgical coal sales contracts. Some of our coal supply contracts contain provisions that allow for the price to be renegotiated at periodic intervals. Generally, price reopener provisions require the parties to agree on a new price based on the prevailing market price, however, some contracts provide that the new price is set between a pre-set “floor” and “ceiling.” In some circumstances, failure of the parties to agree on a price under a price reopener provision can lead to termination of the contract. Any adjustment or renegotiation leading to a significantly lower contract price could result in decreased revenues. Accordingly, supply contracts with terms of one year or more may provide only limited protection during adverse market conditions. Coal supply agreements also typically contain force majeure provisions allowing temporary suspension of performance by us or the customer during the duration of specified events beyond the control of the affected party. Most of our coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, grindability and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or termination of the contracts. In addition, some of these contracts allow our customers to terminate their contracts in the event of changes in regulations affecting our industry that increase the price of coal beyond specified limits. As a result of the economic slowdown that has resulted in deep cuts in worldwide steel production in late 2008 and the first half of 2009 and the application of such price adjustment and other similar provisions in our long-term supply contracts, we had to restructure certain agreements under mutually acceptable terms with steel customers starting in late 2008 and continuing through 2009. A slowing in the current economic recovery would likely result in an increase in the number of restructured agreements. Due to the risks mentioned above with respect to long-term supply contracts, we may not achieve the revenue or profit we expect to achieve from these sales commitments. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our largest customer during 2009 accounted for approximately 12% of our total revenues. We derived approximately 47% of our 2009 total revenues from sales to our ten largest customers. These customers may not continue to purchase coal from us under our current coal supply agreements, or at all. If these customers were to reduce their purchases of coal from us significantly or if we were unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our revenues and profitability could suffer materially. 35 Table of Contents A decline in demand for metallurgical coal would limit our ability to sell our high quality steam coal as higher-priced metallurgical coal and could affect the economic viability of certain of our mines that have higher operating costs. Portions of our coal reserves possess quality characteristics that enable us to mine, process and market them as either metallurgical coal or high quality steam coal, depending on the prevailing conditions in the metallurgical and steam coal markets. We decide whether to mine, process and market these coals as metallurgical or steam coal based on management’s assessment as to which market is likely to provide us with a higher margin. We consider a number of factors when making this assessment, including the difference between the current and anticipated future market prices of steam coal and metallurgical coal, the lower volume of saleable tons that results from producing a given quantity of reserves for sale in the metallurgical market instead of the steam market, the increased costs incurred in producing coal for sale in the metallurgical market instead of the steam market, the likelihood of being able to secure a longer-term sales commitment by selling coal into the steam market and our contractual commitments to deliver different types of coals to our customers. A decline in the metallurgical market relative to the steam market could cause us to shift coal from the metallurgical market to the steam market, thereby reducing our revenues and profitability. Most of our metallurgical coal reserves possess quality characteristics that enable us to mine, process and market them as high quality steam coal. However, some of our mines operate profitably only if all or a portion of their production is sold as metallurgical coal to the steel market. If demand for metallurgical coal declined to the point where all the production from these mines had to be sold as steam coal, theses mines may not be economically viable and subject to closure. Such closures would lead to asset impairment charges, accelerated reclamation costs, as well as reduced revenue and profitability. Disruption in supplies of coal produced by contractors and other third parties could temporarily impair our ability to fill customers’ orders or increase our costs. In addition to marketing coal that is produced by our subsidiaries’ employees, we utilize contractors to operate some of our mines. Operational difficulties at contractor-operated mines, changes in demand for contract miners from other coal producers, and other factors beyond our control could affect the availability, pricing, and quality of coal produced for us by contractors. The majority of the coal that we purchase from third parties is blended with coal produced from our mines prior to resale, and we also process (which includes washing, crushing or blending coal at one of our preparation plants or loading facilities) a portion of the coal that we purchase from third parties prior to resale. We sold 1.5 million tons of coal purchased from third parties during 2009, representing approximately 3% of our total coal sales volume during 2009. Approximately 82% of our purchased coal sales volume in 2009 was blended with coal produced from our mines prior to resale, and approximately 1% of our total coal sales volume in 2009 consisted of coal purchased from third parties that we processed before resale. The availability of specified qualities of this purchased coal may decrease and prices may increase as a result of, among other things, changes in overall coal supply and demand levels, consolidation in the coal industry and new laws or regulations. Disruption in our supply of contractor-produced coal and purchased coal could temporarily impair our ability to fill our customers’ orders or require us to pay higher prices in order to obtain the required coal from other sources. Any increase in the prices we pay for contractor-produced coal or purchased coal could increase our costs and therefore lower our earnings. Although increases in market prices for coal generally benefit us by allowing us to sell coal at higher prices, those increases also increase our costs to acquire purchased coal, which lowers our earnings. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness deteriorates. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. Our customer base is changing with deregulation as utilities sell their power plants to their non-regulated affiliates or third parties that may be less creditworthy, thereby increasing the risk we bear on payment default. These new power plant owners may have credit ratings that are below investment grade. In addition, competition with other coal suppliers could force us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk we bear on payment default. We have contracts to supply coal to energy trading and brokering companies under which those companies sell coal to end users. If the creditworthiness of the energy trading and brokering companies declines, this would increase the risk that we may not be able to collect payment for all coal sold and delivered to or on behalf of these energy trading and brokering companies. Global financial markets experienced extreme disruption in late 2008 and early 2009, which, among other things, severely limited liquidity and credit availability. Conditions improved starting in the second quarter of 2009, and liquidity has become available in the bond markets and, to a lesser extent, the term loan markets. Nevertheless, we continue to closely monitor economic conditions and credit availability and the resulting impacts on our business and our suppliers and customers. If the current economic recovery proves to be only temporary, the current economic conditions worsens or a prolonged global, national or regional economic recession or other similar events occur, it is likely to significantly impact the creditworthiness of our customers and could increase the risk we bear on payment default. 36 Table of Contents Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation could affect the demand for our coal or temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for our customers. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or make our coal production less competitive than coal produced from other sources. We depend upon railroads, trucks, beltlines, ocean vessels and barges to deliver coal to our customers. Disruption of these transportation services due to weather-related problems, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks, terrorist attacks, and other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, resulting in decreased shipments. For example, in 2005 certain shipments of coal to our customers were delayed by hurricanes in the Gulf Coast and by two derailments in the Powder River Basin. Decreased shipment performance levels over longer periods of time could cause our customers to look to other sources for their coal needs, negatively affecting our revenues and profitability. In 2009, 75% of our produced and processed coal volume was transported from the load-out or preparation plant to the customer by rail. From time to time in the past, we have experienced deterioration in the reliability of the service provided by rail carriers, which increased our internal coal handling costs. If there is future deterioration of the transportation services provided by the railroad companies we use and we are unable to find alternative transportation providers to ship our coal, our business could be adversely affected. We have investments in mines, loading facilities, and ports that in most cases are serviced by a single rail carrier. Our operations that are serviced by a single rail carrier are particularly at risk to disruptions in the transportation services provided by that rail carrier, due to the difficulty in arranging alternative transportation. If a single rail carrier servicing our operations does not provide sufficient capacity, revenue from these operations and our return on investment could be adversely impacted. In addition, much of our eastern coal is transported from our mines to our loading facilities by trucks owned and operated by third parties. An increase in transportation costs could have an adverse effect on our ability to increase or to maintain production on a profit-making basis and could therefore adversely affect our revenues and earnings. Our mining operations consume significant quantities of commodities. If commodity prices increase significantly or rapidly, it could impact our cost of production. Coal mines consume large quantities of commodities such as steel, copper, rubber products and liquid fuels, such as diesel fuel. Some commodities, such as steel, are needed to comply with roof control plans required by regulation. The prices we pay for these products are strongly impacted by the global commodities market. A rapid or significant increase in cost of some commodities could impact our mining costs because we have limited ability to negotiate lower prices, and, in some cases, do not have a ready substitute for these commodities. Fair value of derivative instruments that are not accounted for as a hedge could cause earnings volatility in our Statements of Operations for a given period. Derivative financial instruments are recognized as either assets or liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and measured at fair value. Changes in fair value are recognized either in earnings or equity, depending on whether the transaction qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting, and if so, how effective the derivatives are at offsetting price movements in the underlying exposure. We account for certain of our coal forward purchase and sales agreements that do not qualify for the “normal purchase and normal sales” exception available under existing accounting rules as derivative instruments. We use significant quantities of diesel fuel and explosives in our operations and enter into commodity swap and option agreements for a portion of our diesel fuel and explosive needs to reduce the risk that changes in the market price of diesel fuel and explosives can have on our operations. A portion of our commodity swap agreements have not been designated as qualifying cash flow hedges and therefore, we are required to record changes in fair value of these derivative instruments in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. We also have outstanding debt that includes a variable interest rate component. We entered into an interest rate swap to reduce the risk that changing interest rates could have on our operations. The swap initially qualified for cash flow hedge accounting and changes in fair value were recorded as a component of equity; however, the debt instrument was subsequently paid and the swap no longer qualified for cash flow hedge accounting. The amounts that were previously recorded in equity of $17.7 million were recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Operations in 2009. Subsequent changes in fair value of the interest rate swap will be recorded in earnings. During 2009 and 2008, we recorded a $3.6 million gain and a $47.3 million loss, respectively, related to changes in the fair value of our derivative instruments. 37 Table of Contents Our business will be adversely affected if we are unable to develop or acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine coal reserves possessing quality characteristics desired by our customers in a cost-effective manner. As of December 31, 2009, we owned or leased 2,291.0 million tons of proven and probable coal reserves that we believe will support current production levels for more than 20 years. We have not yet applied for the permits required, or developed the mines necessary, to mine all of our reserves. Permits are becoming increasingly more difficult and expensive to obtain and the review process continues to lengthen. In addition, we may not be able to mine all of our reserves as profitably as we do at our current operations. Because our reserves are depleted as we mine our coal, our future success and growth depend, in part, upon our ability to acquire additional coal reserves that are economically recoverable. If we are unable to replace or increase our coal reserves on acceptable terms, our production and revenues will decline as our reserves are depleted. Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines also may have an adverse effect on our operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines. Our ability to acquire additional coal reserves through acquisitions in the future also could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties, or the lack of suitable acquisition candidates. Because our profitability is substantially dependent on the availability of an adequate supply of coal reserves that can be mined at competitive costs, the unavailability of these types of reserves would cause our profitability to decline. We have not yet applied for all of the permits required, or developed the mines necessary, to use all of our reserves. Furthermore, we may not be able to mine all of our reserves as profitably as we do at our current operations. Our planned development projects and acquisition activities may not result in significant additional reserves and we may not have continuing success developing new mines or expanding existing mines beyond our existing reserves. Most of our mining operations are conducted on properties owned or leased by us. Because title to most of our leased properties and mineral rights is not thoroughly verified until a permit to mine the property is obtained, our right to mine some of our reserves may be materially adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist. In addition, in order to develop our reserves, we must receive various governmental permits. We may be unable to obtain the permits necessary for us to operate profitably in the future. Some of these permits are becoming increasingly more difficult and expensive to obtain and the review process continues to lengthen. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine coal reserves that have the geological characteristics that enable them to be mined at competitive costs and to meet the quality needed by our customers. Replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. We may not be able to accurately assess the geological characteristics of any reserves that we now own or subsequently acquire, which may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines also may have an adverse effect on our operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines. Our ability to obtain other reserves through acquisitions in the future could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties, the lack of suitable acquisition candidates or the inability to acquire coal properties on commercially reasonable terms. Demand for our coal changes seasonally and could have an adverse effect on the timing of our cash flows and our ability to service our existing and future indebtedness. Our business is seasonal, with operating results varying from quarter to quarter. We have historically experienced lower sales during winter months primarily due to the freezing of lakes that we use to transport coal to some of our customers. As a result, our first quarter results may be negatively impacted. Lower than expected sales by us during this period could have an adverse affect on the timing of our cash flows and therefore our ability to service our obligations with respect to our existing and future indebtedness. Failure to obtain or renew surety bonds on acceptable terms could affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations, which could adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal. Federal and state laws require us to obtain surety bonds to secure payment of certain long-term obligations such as mine closure or reclamation costs, federal and state workers’ compensation costs, coal leases and other obligations. These bonds are typically renewable annually. Surety bond issuers and holders may not continue to renew the bonds or may demand additional collateral or other less favorable terms upon those renewals. Our failure to maintain, or our inability to acquire, surety bonds that are required by state and federal law would affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations, which could adversely affect our ability to mine or lease coal. That failure could result from a variety of factors including, without limitation: • lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new bonds; • restrictions on availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of our credit facility or the indenture governing our senior notes; and • the exercise by third-party surety bond issuers of their right to refuse to renew the surety. 38 Table of Contents In addition, due to the current instability and volatility of the financial markets, our current surety bond providers may experience difficulties in providing new surety bonds to us, maintaining existing surety bonds, or satisfying liquidity requirements under existing surety bond contracts. In that event, we would be required to find alternative sources of funding to satisfy our payment obligations, which may require greater use of our credit facility. We have reclamation and mine closure obligations. If the assumptions underlying our accruals are inaccurate, we could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (“SMCRA”) establishes operational, reclamation and closure standards for all aspects of surface mining as well as deep mining. We accrue for the costs of current mine disturbance and final mine closure, including the cost of treating mine water discharge where necessary. Estimates of our total reclamation and mine-closing liabilities are based upon permit requirements and our experience. The amounts recorded are dependent upon a number of variables, including the estimated future retirement costs, estimated proven reserves, assumptions involving profit margins, inflation rates, discount rates and the assumed credit-adjusted risk-free interest rates. Furthermore, these obligations are unfunded. If these accruals are insufficient or our liability in a particular year is greater than currently anticipated, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Defects in title in our mine properties could limit our ability to recover coal from these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. We conduct a significant part of our mining operations on properties that we lease. Title to most of our leased properties and mineral rights is not thoroughly verified until a permit to mine the property is obtained, and in some cases title with respect to leased properties is not verified at all. Our right to mine some of our reserves may be materially adversely affected by actual or alleged defects in title or boundaries. In order to obtain leases or mining contracts to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we may in the future have to incur unanticipated costs or could even lose our right to mine on that property, which could adversely affect our profitability. Expenditures for benefits for non-active employees could be materially higher than we have anticipated, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. We are responsible for certain long-term liabilities under a variety of benefit plans and other arrangements with active and inactive employees. The unfunded status (the excess of projected benefit obligation over plan assets) of these obligations as of December 31, 2009, as reflected in Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, included $614.4 million of postretirement obligations, $95.9 million of defined benefit pension and supplemental employee retirement plan obligations, $43.9 million of workers’ compensation obligations and $30.3 million of self-insured black lung obligations. These obligations have been estimated based on assumptions including actuarial estimates, discount rates, estimates of mine lives, expected returns on pension plan assets and changes in health care costs. We could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. In addition, future regulatory and accounting changes relating to these benefits could result in increased obligations or additional costs, which could also have a material adverse affect on our financial results. Several states in which we operate consider changes in workers’ compensation laws from time to time, which, if enacted, could adversely affect us. Our indebtedness could harm our business by limiting our available cash and our access to additional capital and could force us to sell material assets or take other actions to attempt to reduce our indebtedness. At December 31, 2009, we had $870.5 million of indebtedness outstanding before discounts applied for financial reporting, representing 25% of our total capitalization. This indebtedness consisted of $287.5 million principal of our convertible notes, $298.3 million principal of our 7.25% senior notes and a $284.8 million term loan under our credit facility. In addition, at December 31, 2009, we had $113.6 million of letters of credit outstanding under our credit facility and $143.5 million of letters of credit outstanding under our accounts receivable securitization facility. This level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate activities; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, debt service requirements or other general corporate requirements; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the coal industry; • make it more difficult to self-insure and obtain surety bonds or letters of credit; • limit our ability to enter into new long-term sales contracts; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors. 39 Table of Contents If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or our requirements under our other long-term liabilities, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or our requirements under our other long term liabilities. In the absence of sufficient cash flows and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our credit facility restricts our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from the sales. We may not be able to consummate any such sales or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Furthermore, substantially all of our material assets secure our indebtedness under our credit facility. We may also be able to incur substantially more debt which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our significant indebtedness. We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future under the terms of our credit facility and the indentures governing our 7.25% senior notes and our convertible notes. Our credit facility provides for a revolving line of credit of up to $650.0 million, of which $536.4 million was available as of December 31, 2009. The addition of new debt to our current debt levels could increase the related risks that we now face. For example, the spread over the variable interest rate applicable to loans under our revolving line of credit is dependent on our leverage ratio, and it would increase if our leverage ratio increases. Additional drawings under our revolving line of credit could also limit the amount available for letters of credit in support of our bonding obligations, which we will require as we develop and acquire new mines. The terms of our credit facility and the indenture governing our 7.25% senior notes limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to take certain actions, which may limit our operating and financial flexibility and adversely affect our business. Our credit facility and the indenture governing our 7.25% senior notes contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit our ability and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, enter into sale and leaseback transactions, pay dividends, make redemptions and repurchases of certain capital stock, make loans and investments, create liens, engage in transactions with affiliates, and merge or consolidate with other companies or sell substantially all of our assets. These covenants could adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to execute preferred business strategies. In addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions. Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with our covenants and payment obligations contained in our credit facility and the indentures governing our 7.25% senior notes and 2.375% convertible senior notes. If we violate these covenants or obligations under any of these agreements and are unable to obtain waivers from our lenders, our debt under all of these agreements would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we were able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to maintain capacity for required letters of credit could limit our available borrowing capacity under our credit facility, limit our ability to provide financial assurance for self-insured obligations and negatively impact our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditure or other general corporate requirements. At December 31, 2009, we had $257.1 million of letters of credit in place, of which $113.6 million was outstanding under our credit facility and $143.5 million was outstanding under our accounts receivable securitization facility. These outstanding letters of credit supported workers’ compensation bonds, coal mining reclamation obligations, UMWA retiree health care obligations, and other miscellaneous obligations. Our credit facility provides for revolving commitments of up to $650.0 million, up to $500.0 million of which can be used to issue letters of credit, and our accounts receivable securitization facility provides for the issuance of up to $150.0 million in letters of credit. Obligations secured by letters of credit may increase in the future. Any such increase would limit our available borrowing capacity under our current or future credit facilities and could negatively impact our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditure or other general corporate requirements. Moreover, if we do not maintain sufficient borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility and accounts receivable securitization facility for additional letters of credit, we may be unable to provide financial assurance for our mining operations. 40 Table of Contents Certain terms of our convertible notes may adversely impact our liquidity. Upon conversion of our convertible notes, we will be required to pay in cash the lesser of the principal amount of the converted notes and the sum of a calculated daily conversion value over an averaging period. As a result, the conversion of the convertible notes may significantly reduce our liquidity. The inability of the sellers of the companies that we have acquired to fulfill their indemnification obligations to us under our acquisition agreements could increase our liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. In the acquisition agreements entered into with the sellers of the companies that we have acquired, including the acquisition agreements entered into related to the Coastal Coal Company, Nicewonder and Progress acquisitions, the respective sellers and, in some of the acquisitions, their parent companies, agreed to retain responsibility for and indemnify Old Alpha against damages resulting from certain third-party claims or other liabilities, such as workers’ compensation liabilities, black lung liabilities, postretirement medical liabilities and certain environmental or mine safety liabilities. The failure of any seller and, if applicable, its parent company, to satisfy their obligations with respect to claims and retained liabilities covered by the acquisition agreements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position if claimants successfully assert that we are liable for those claims and/or retained liabilities. The obligations of the sellers and, in some instances, their parent companies, to indemnify us with respect to their retained liabilities will continue for a substantial period of time, and in some cases indefinitely. The sellers’ indemnification obligations with respect to breaches of their representations and warranties in the acquisition agreements will terminate upon expiration of the applicable indemnification period (generally 18-24 months from the acquisition date for most representations and warranties, and from two to five years from the acquisition date for environmental representations and warranties), are subject to deductible amounts and will not cover damages in excess of the applicable coverage limit. The assertion of third-party claims after the expiration of the applicable indemnification period or in excess of the applicable coverage limit, or the failure of any seller to satisfy its indemnification obligations with respect to breaches of its representations and warranties, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our inability to continue or expand the Nicewonder existing road construction and coal recovery business could adversely affect the expected benefits from the Nicewonder acquisition. Our subsidiary, Nicewonder Contracting, Inc. (“NCI”), operates a road construction business under a contract with the State of West Virginia. Pursuant to the contract, NCI is building approximately 11 miles of rough grade highway in West Virginia over the next one to two years and, in exchange, NCI will be compensated by West Virginia based on the number of cubic yards of material excavated or filled to create a road bed, as well as for certain other cost components. In the course of the road construction, NCI will recover any coal encountered and sell the coal to its customers, subject to certain costs, including coal loading, transportation, coal royalty payments and applicable taxes and fees. The State of West Virginia has only approved funding for a portion of this road construction. If West Virginia does not fund the remaining sections of the highway project, it would adversely affect NCI’s earnings. Even if West Virginia funds the remainder of this project through the next one to two years, we are uncertain whether the state will fund any similar projects in the future. 41 Table of Contents If we are unable to accurately estimate the overall risks or costs when we bid on a road construction contract that is ultimately awarded to us, we may achieve a lower than anticipated profit or incur a loss on the contract. A large percentage of our road construction revenues and contract backlog is typically derived from fixed unit price contracts. Fixed unit price contracts require us to perform the contract for a fixed unit price irrespective of our actual costs. As a result, we realize a profit on these contracts only if we successfully estimate our costs and then successfully control actual costs and avoid cost overruns. If our cost estimates for a contract are inaccurate, or if we do not execute the contract within our cost estimates, then cost overruns may cause us to incur losses or cause the contract not to be as profitable as we expected. Also, if we do not recover the amounts of coal estimated on our construction projects, profitability on our construction contracts could be less than projected. This, in turn, could negatively affect our cash flow, earnings and financial position. The costs incurred and gross profit realized on those contracts can vary, sometimes substantially, from the original projections due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: • onsite conditions that differ from those assumed in the original bid; • delays caused by weather conditions; • contract modifications creating unanticipated costs not covered by change orders; • changes in availability, proximity and costs of materials, including diesel fuel, explosives, and parts and supplies for our equipment; • coal recovery which impacts the allocation of cost to road construction; • availability and skill level of workers in the geographic location of a project; • our suppliers’ or subcontractors’ failure to perform; • mechanical problems with our machinery or equipment; • citations issued by a governmental authority, including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration and the Mine Safety and Health Administration; • difficulties in obtaining required governmental permits or approvals; • changes in applicable laws and regulations; and • claims or demands from third parties alleging damages arising from our work. Sales of additional shares of our common stock, the exercise or granting of additional equity securities or conversion of our convertible notes could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market and the availability of those shares for sale could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In addition, future issuances of equity securities, including pursuant to outstanding options or the conversion of our convertible bonds, could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders and could cause the market price for our common stock to decline. We may issue equity securities in the future for a number of reasons, including to finance our operations and business strategy, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to satisfy our obligations upon the exercise of outstanding warrants or options or for other reasons. As of December 31, 2009, there were: • 1,048,405 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of stock options with a weighted-average exercise price of $11.32; • 886,214 time-based restricted share unit awards issued to directors, officers and key employees to be converted to common stock upon the satisfaction of future service conditions; • 451,913 shares to be issued to recipients of performance-based share unit awards (based on actual results) at the end of a performance period which ended on December 31, 2009; • 151,035 shares to be issued to recipients of performance-based share unit awards (assuming performance at a target level) at the end of a performance period which ends on December 31, 2010; and • 336,982 shares to be issued to recipients of performance-based share unit awards (assuming performance at a target level) at the end of a performance period which ends on December 31, 2011. The price of our common stock could also be affected by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may exist or develop involving our common stock and our convertible notes. 42 Table of Contents Ongoing instability and volatility in the worldwide financial markets have created uncertainty, which could adversely affect our business and the price of our common shares. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia experienced extreme disruption in late 2008 and the first half of 2009 including, among other things, extreme volatility in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others, including real estate. The tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affected our customers’ ability to obtain financing for operations and resulted in a temporary decrease in demand, the cancellation of some orders for our coal products and the restructuring of agreements with certain of our coal customers. Beginning in the second half of 2009, economic conditions started to improve and most economies are now regarded as recovering from a deep recession. Reversal of the current economic recovery, a prolonged global, national or regional economic recession or other similar events could have a material adverse effect on the demand for coal and on our sales, margins, and profitability. During this recent period of intense market disruption, the market price for our common shares declined substantially. We continue to monitor economic developments and the resulting impact on our business and other suppliers and customers closely. However, we are unable to predict the timing, duration and severity of potential future disruptions in financial markets and potential future adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries and the impact these events may have on our operations and the industry in general. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid a cash dividend, and our Board of Directors periodically evaluates commencing a dividend policy. If we were to decide in the future to pay dividends, our ability to do so would be dependent on the ability of our subsidiaries to make cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by restrictions in our credit facility. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as terrorist attacks and acts of war. Future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers may materially adversely affect our operations and those of our customers. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to our customers, decreased sales of our coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any of these occurrences, or a combination of them, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the indentures for our convertible notes and our 7.25% senior notes may discourage a takeover attempt even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impose impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire us even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for stockholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our stockholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our Company, and could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. If a “fundamental change” (as defined in the indenture for our convertible notes) occurs, holders of the convertible notes will have the right, at their option, either to convert their convertible notes or require us to repurchase all or a portion of their convertible notes. In the event of a “make-whole fundamental change” (as defined in the indenture for the convertible notes), we also may be required to increase the conversion rate applicable to any convertible notes surrendered for conversion. If a “change in control” (as defined in the indenture for the 7.25% senior notes) occurs, holders of the 7.25% senior notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their 7.25% senior notes. In addition, each indenture prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity is a U.S. entity that assumes our obligations under the applicable notes. Our credit facility imposes similar restrictions on us, including with respect to mergers or consolidations with other companies and the sale of substantially all of our assets. These provisions could prevent or deter a third party from acquiring us even where the acquisition could be beneficial to our stockholders. 43 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 