ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Our industry is highly cyclical, and prolonged periods of weak demand or excess supply may reduce our net sales and/or margins, which may reduce our net income or cause us to incur losses. The building products distribution industry is subject to cyclical market pressures. Prices of building products are determined by overall supply and demand in the market for building products. Market prices of building products historically have been volatile and cyclical and we have limited ability to control the timing and amount of pricing changes for building products. Demand for building products is driven mainly by factors outside of our control, such as general economic and political conditions, interest rates, availability of mortgage financing, the construction, repair and remodeling and industrial markets, weather and population growth. The supply of building products fluctuates based on available manufacturing capacity, and excess capacity in the industry can result in significant declines in market prices for those products. To the extent that prices and volumes experience a sustained or sharp decline, our net sales and margins likely would decline as well. Because we have substantial fixed costs, a decrease in sales and margin generally may have a significant adverse impact on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our results in some periods have been affected by market volatility, including a reduction in gross profits due to a decline in the resale value of our structural products inventory. All of these factors make it difficult to forecast our operating results. Our industry is dependant on the homebuilding industry which is suffering from a prolonged significant downturn, and any further downturn or sustained continuation of the current downturn will continue to materially affect our business, liquidity and operating results. Our sales depend heavily on the strength of national and local new residential construction and home improvement and remodeling markets. The strength of these markets depends on new housing starts and residential renovation projects, which are a function of many factors beyond our control. Some of these factors include general economic conditions, employment levels, job and household formation, interest rates, housing prices, tax policy, availability of mortgage financing, prices of commodity wood and steel products, immigration patterns, regional demographics and consumer confidence. The downturn in the residential construction market is in its sixth consecutive year and it is one of the most severe housing downturns in United States history. Along with high unemployment, tighter lending standards and general economic uncertainty, there is an oversupply of unsold homes on the market and the pool of qualified home buyers has declined significantly. Moreover, the government’s legislative and administrative measures aimed at restoring liquidity to the credit markets and providing relief to homeowners facing foreclosure have had limited results. In 2009, the government provided eligible home buyers a tax credit that was extended until April 30, 2010. As a result of the home buyers’ tax credit, the residential construction market improved during the first and second quarters of fiscal 2010, but experienced a decline in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2010 following expiration of the credits. While the residential construction market experienced marginal improvement in fiscal 2011, it is unclear if and to what extent the residential construction market will improve during fiscal 2012. Our results of operations have been adversely affected by the severe downturn in new housing activity in the United States and we expect the severe downturn in new housing activity to continue to adversely affect our operating results in 2012. A prolonged continuation of the current downturn and any future downturns in the markets that we serve or in the economy generally will have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity and financial condition. Reduced levels of construction activity may result in continued intense price competition among building materials suppliers, which may adversely affect our gross margins. We cannot provide assurance that our responses to the downturn or the government’s attempts to address the difficulties in the economy will be successful. 9 Table of Contents A significant portion of our sales are on credit to our customers. Material changes in their credit worthiness or our inability to forecast deterioration in their credit position could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flow and liquidity. The majority of our sales are on account where we provide credit to our customers. Continued market disruptions could cause additional economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our products and increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay their accounts. Bankruptcies by our customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. In fiscal 2011, approximately 0.1% in bad debt expense to total net sales was incurred related to credit sales. Our customers are generally susceptible to the same economic business risks as we are. Furthermore, we may not necessarily be aware of any deterioration in their financial position. If our customers’ financial position becomes impaired, it could have a significant impact on our bad debt exposure and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flow and liquidity. In addition, certain of our suppliers potentially may be impacted as well, causing disruption or delay of product availability. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to make required payments on our substantial indebtedness and future indebtedness or to maintain our required level of excess liquidity. We have a substantial amount of debt. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding borrowings of $93.4 million and excess availability of $115.7 million under the terms of our U.S. revolving credit facility (the “U.S. revolving credit facility”), outstanding borrowing of $1.1 million and excess availability of $2.6 million under our Canadian revolving credit facility and outstanding letters of credit totaling $2.7 million. We also have a mortgage loan in the amount of $243.3 million. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements as our excess liquidity likely will decrease while our industry and our Company begins its recovery from the historic housing market downturn; • expose us to interest rate fluctuations because the interest rate on the debt under our U.S. revolving credit facility is variable; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt. In addition, our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance, cash flows and capital resources, which in turn depend upon prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • economic and demand factors affecting the building products distribution industry; • pricing pressures; 10 Table of Contents • increased operating costs; • competitive conditions; and • other operating difficulties. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. Obtaining additional capital or restructuring our debt could be accomplished in part through new or additional borrowings or placements of debt or equity securities. There is no assurance that we could obtain additional capital or restructure our debt on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations, the value realized on such assets or operations will depend on market conditions and the availability of buyers. Accordingly, any such sale may not, among other things, be for a sufficient dollar amount. Our obligations under the revolving credit facilities are secured by a first priority security interest in all of our operating company’s inventories, receivables and proceeds from those items. In addition, our mortgage loan is secured by the majority of our real property. The foregoing encumbrances may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations. We also may not be able to restructure our indebtedness on favorable economic terms, if at all. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including under the revolving credit facilities. Our incurrence of additional indebtedness would intensify the risks described above. The instruments governing our indebtedness contain various covenants limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business, including requiring us to maintain a minimum level of excess liquidity. Our revolving credit facilities and mortgage loan contain various restrictive covenants and restrictions, including financial covenants customary for asset-based loans that limit our management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these instruments limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • grant liens on assets; • make investments, including capital expenditures; • sell or acquire assets outside the ordinary course of business; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • make fundamental business changes. Under our U.S. revolving credit facility, we are required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.1 to 1.0 in the event our excess availability falls below the greater of $30 million or the amount equal to 15% of the lesser of the borrowing base or $400 million. If we fail to maintain this minimum excess availability, the U.S. revolving credit facility requires us to (i) maintain certain financial ratios, which we would not meet with current operating results, and (ii) limit our capital expenditures. If we fail to comply with the restrictions in the U.S. revolving credit facility, the Canadian revolving credit facility, the mortgage loan documents or any other current or future financing agreements, a default may allow the creditors under the relevant instruments to accelerate the related debt and to exercise their remedies under these agreements, which will typically include the right to declare the principal amount of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other related amounts, immediately due and payable, to exercise any remedies the creditors may have to foreclose on assets that are subject to liens securing that debt and to terminate any commitments they had made to supply further funds. 11 Table of Contents We are dependent upon a single supplier, G-P, for a significant percentage of our products. Although we have been working to diversify our supplier base, we are still dependent on G-P for a significant percentage of our products. Purchases from G-P accounted for approximately 11% and 12% of our purchases during fiscal 2011 and fiscal 2010, respectively. On February 12, 2012, our three-year purchase agreement with G-P for engineered lumber expired in accordance with its terms. As of that date, we operate without a supply agreement for any of the products that we purchase from G-P. As a result, our purchases from G-P are subject to greater volatility with respect to sales terms, including volume and pricing, than when we had a long-term supply agreement in place. In addition, if we are unable to agree on supply arrangements for these products or if G-P otherwise discontinues sales of product to us, we could experience a product shortage unless and until we obtain a replacement supplier or suppliers. We may not be able to obtain replacement products on favorable economic terms. An inability to replace products on favorable economic terms could adversely impact our net sales and our costs, which in turn could impact our gross profit, net income and cash flows. Product shortages, loss of key suppliers, and our dependence on third-party suppliers and manufacturers could affect our financial health. Our ability to offer a wide variety of products to our customers is dependent upon our ability to obtain adequate product supply from manufacturers and other suppliers. Generally, our products are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. However, the loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of, products from our suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Although in many instances we have agreements with our suppliers, these agreements are generally terminable by either party on limited notice. Failure by our suppliers to continue to supply us with products on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, could put pressure on our gross margins or have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows. Our industry is highly fragmented and competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively, our net sales and operating results will be reduced. The building products distribution industry is highly fragmented and competitive and the barriers to entry for local competitors are relatively low. Competitive factors in our industry include pricing and availability of product, service and delivery capabilities, ability to assist with problem-solving, customer relationships, geographic coverage and breadth of product offerings. Also, financial stability is important to suppliers and customers in choosing distributors for their products and affects the favorability of the terms on which we are able to obtain our products from our suppliers and sell our products to our customers. Some of our competitors are part of larger companies and therefore have access to greater financial and other resources than us. In addition, certain product manufacturers sell and distribute their products directly to customers. Additional manufacturers of products distributed by us may elect to sell and distribute directly to end-users in the future or enter into exclusive supply arrangements with other distributors. Finally, we may not be able to maintain our costs at a level sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, our net sales and net income will be reduced. Integrating acquisitions may be time-consuming and create costs that could reduce our operating results and cash flows. We may elect to selectively pursue acquisitions. Any integration process may be complex and time consuming, may be disruptive to the business and may cause an interruption of, or a distraction of management’s attention from, the business as a result of a number of obstacles, including but not limited to: • the loss of key customers of the acquired company; • the incurrence of unexpected expenses and working capital requirements; • a failure of our due diligence process to identify significant issues or contingencies; • difficulties assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; 12 Table of Contents • difficulties effectively integrating the acquired technologies with our current technologies; • our inability to retain key personnel of acquired entities; • failure to maintain the quality of customer service; • our inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; and • difficulty in maintaining internal controls, procedures and policies. Any of the foregoing obstacles, or a combination of them, could increase selling, general and administrative expenses in absolute terms and/or as a percentage of net sales, which could in turn negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, future acquisitions are accompanied by the risk that the obligations and liabilities of an acquired company may not be adequately reflected in the historical financial statements of that company and the risk that those historical financial statements may be based on assumptions which are incorrect or inconsistent with our assumptions or approach to accounting policies. Any of these material obligations, liabilities or incorrect or inconsistent assumptions could adversely impact our results of operations. A significant percentage of our employees are unionized. Wage increases or work stoppages by our unionized employees may reduce our results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 30% of our employees were represented by various labor unions. As of December 31, 2011, we had 42 collective bargaining agreements, of which 5, covering approximately 80 total employees, are up for renewal in fiscal 2012. Two additional collective bargaining agreements, which cover approximately 80 total employees, will expire on December 31, 2012. Although we have historically had good relations with our unionized employees and expect to renew the collective bargaining agreements that will expire in 2012, no assurances can be provided that we will be able to reach a timely agreement as to the renewal of the agreements and their expiration or continued expired status, as applicable, could result in a work stoppage. In addition, we may become subject to material cost increases, or additional work rules imposed by agreements with labor unions. The foregoing could increase our selling, general and administrative expenses in absolute terms and/or as a percentage of net sales. In addition, work stoppages or other labor disturbances may occur in the future, which could adversely impact our net sales and/or selling, general and administrative expenses. All of these factors could negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. Increases in the cost of employee benefits, such as pension and other postretirement benefits, could impact our financial results and cash flow. Unfavorable changes in the cost of our pension retirement benefits and current employees’ medical benefits could materially impact our financial results and cash flow. We sponsor several defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of our hourly employees. Our estimates of the amount and timing of our future funding obligations for our defined benefit pension plans are based upon various assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, the discount rate, projected return on plan assets, compensation increase rates, mortality rates, retirement patterns, and turnover rates. In addition, the amount and timing of our pension funding obligations can be influenced by funding requirements that are established by the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), the Pension Protection Act, Congressional Acts, or other governing bodies. During fiscal 2010 and 2011, we met our required contribution to our defined benefit pension plans. As of December 31, 2011, the net unfunded status of our benefit plan was $35.5 million. The Company’s required cash contribution to the pension plan in 2012 is approximately $4.1 million. This contribution is comprised of approximately $1.2 million related to our 2011 minimum required contribution and approximately $2.9 million related to our 2012 minimum required contribution. The Company’s minimum required contribution for plan year 2012 is $5.4 million. The Company will fund the $1.2 million related to its 2011 minimum required contribution with cash in 2012. However, in an effort to preserve additional cash for operations, we intend to seek a waiver from the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) for our 2012 minimum required contribution. If we are granted the requested waiver, our contributions for 2012 will be deferred and amortized over the following five years, increasing our future minimum required contributions. No assurances can be provided, however, that any such waiver request will be granted. 13 Table of Contents We participate in various multi-employer pension plans in the United States. The majority of these plans are underfunded. If, in the future, we choose to withdraw from these plans, we likely would need to record a withdrawal liability, which may be material to our financial results. The payment of dividends has been suspended, and resumption is dependant on business conditions, among other factors. Further, the instruments governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that may limit our ability to pay dividends. We suspended the payment of dividends on our common stock for an indefinite period of time on December 5, 2007. Resumption of the payment of dividends will depend on, among other things, business conditions in the housing industry, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Accordingly, we may not be able to resume the payment of dividends at the same quarterly rate in the future, if at all. Federal and state transportation regulations could impose substantial costs on us which would reduce our net income. We use our own fleet of over 550 trucks and over 950 trailers to service customers throughout the United States. The U.S. Department of Transportation, or DOT, regulates our operations in domestic interstate commerce. We are subject to safety requirements governing interstate operations prescribed by the DOT. Vehicle dimensions and driver hours of service also remain subject to both federal and state regulation. More restrictive limitations on vehicle weight and size, trailer length and configuration, or driver hours of service would increase our costs, which, if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers, will increase our selling, general and administrative expenses and reduce our operating results. Environmental laws impose risks and costs on us. Our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, rules and regulations governing the protection of the environment, including, but not limited to, those regulating discharges into the air and water, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, the management of wastes, the cleanup of contamination and the control of noise and odors. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with these requirements. While we believe, based upon current information, that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws, rules and regulations, we could be subject to potentially significant fines or penalties for any failure to comply. Moreover, under certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, and parties that generate or transport hazardous substances that are disposed of at that real property, may be held liable for the cost to investigate or clean up such real property and for related damages to natural resources. We may be subject to liability, including liability for investigation and cleanup costs, if contamination is discovered at one of our current or former warehouse facilities, or at a landfill or other location where we have disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of, wastes. G-P has agreed to indemnify us against any claim arising from environmental conditions that existed prior to May 7, 2004 in connection with the properties we acquired when we purchased the assets of the Division from G-P. We also carry environmental insurance. However, any remediation costs either not related to conditions existing prior to May 7, 2004 or on properties acquired after May 7, 2004 may not be covered by indemnification. In addition, certain remediation costs may not be covered by insurance. We could also be subject to claims brought pursuant to applicable laws, rules or regulations for property damage or personal injury resulting from the environmental impact of our operations. Increasingly stringent environmental requirements, more aggressive enforcement actions, the discovery of unknown conditions or the bringing of future claims may cause our expenditures for environmental matters to increase, and we may incur material costs associated with these matters. Failure to comply with governmental laws and regulations could harm our business. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign governmental agencies, including agencies responsible for monitoring and enforcing employment and labor laws, workplace safety, product safety, environmental laws, consumer protection laws, anti-bribery laws, import/export controls, federal securities laws and tax laws and regulations. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, mandatory product recalls, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties or injunctions. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business, 14 Table of Contents operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of management’s attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. Enforcement actions and sanctions could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Affiliates of Cerberus control us and may have conflicts of interest with other stockholders in the future. Cerberus, which we refer to as the controlling stockholder, beneficially owned approximately 54% of our common stock as of December 31, 2011. As a result, the controlling stockholder will continue to be able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other stockholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. This concentrated ownership position limits other stockholders’ ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that some of our stockholders do not view as beneficial. The controlling stockholder is controlled by Cerberus Capital Management. Four of our eight directors are, or recently were, employees of or advisors to Cerberus Capital management. The controlling stockholder also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. The interests of the controlling stockholder may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Additionally, the controlling stockholder is in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. The controlling stockholder may also pursue, for its own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the controlling stockholder continues to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, it will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. In addition, because we are a controlled company within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules, we are exempt from the NYSE requirements that our board be composed of a majority of independent directors, that our compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors, and that we maintain a nominating/corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent directors. Even if Cerberus no longer controls us in the future, certain provisions of our charter documents and agreements and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that: • permit us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, up to 30 million shares of preferred stock in one or more series and, with respect to each series, to fix the number of shares constituting the series and the designation of the series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of such series, and the preferences and other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions, of the shares of the series; and • limit the stockholders’ ability to call special meetings. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or the DGCL, which also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. Further, certain of our incentive plans provide for vesting of stock options and/or payments to be made to our employees in connection with a change of control, which could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. We may incur substantial costs relating to G-P’s product liability related claims. G-P is a defendant in suits brought in various courts around the nation by plaintiffs who allege that they have suffered personal injury as a result of exposure to products containing asbestos. These suits allege a variety of lung and other diseases based on alleged exposure to products previously manufactured by G-P. Although the terms of the asset purchase agreement provide that G-P will indemnify us against all obligations and liabilities arising out of, relating to or otherwise in any way in 15 Table of Contents respect of any product liability claims (including, without limitation, claims, obligations or liabilities relating to the presence or alleged presence of asbestos-containing materials) with respect to products purchased, sold, marketed, stored, delivered, distributed or transported by G-P and its affiliates, including the Division prior to the acquisition, it could be possible that circumstances may arise under which asbestos-related claims against G-P could cause us to incur substantial costs. For example, in the event that G-P is financially unable to respond to an asbestos product liability claim, plaintiffs’ lawyers may, in order to obtain recovery, attempt to sue us, in our capacity as owner of assets sold by G-P, despite the fact that the assets sold to us did not contain asbestos. Asbestos litigation has, over the years, proved unpredictable, as the aggressive and well-financed asbestos plaintiffs’ bar has been creative, and often successful, in bringing claims based on novel legal theories and on expansive interpretations of existing legal theories. These claims have included claims against companies that did not manufacture asbestos products. As a result of these factors, a number of companies have been held liable for amounts far in excess of their perceived exposure. Although we believe, based on our understanding of the law as currently interpreted, that we should not be held liable for any of G-P’s asbestos-related claims, and, to the contrary, that we would prevail on summary judgment on any such claims, there is nevertheless a possibility that new theories could be developed, or that the application of existing theories could be expanded, in a manner that would result in liability for us. Any such liability ultimately could be borne by us if G-P is unable to fulfill its indemnity obligation under the asset purchase agreement with us. We are subject to cybersecurity risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks. Our business employs systems and a website that allow for the secure storage and transmission of customers’ proprietary information. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. We may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber attacks. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. As cyber attacks become more sophisticated generally, we may be required to incur significant costs to strengthen our systems from outside intrusions and/or obtain insurance coverage related to the threat of such attacks. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 