ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business A substantial or extended decline in coal prices or demand could reduce our revenues and the value of our coal reserves. The prices we charge for coal depend upon factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to: • the supply of, and demand for, domestic and foreign coal due to weather or other factors; • the demand for electricity; • domestic and foreign demand for steel and the continued financial viability of the domestic and/or foreign steel industry; • the proximity to, capacity of, and cost of transportation facilities; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxes; • air emission and other regulatory standards for coal-fired power plants and industrial facilities; • costs of transportation of our coal relative to our competitors; • regulatory, administrative and court decisions; • the price and availability of alternative fuels, including the effects of technological developments; • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures; • disruptions in delivery or changes in pricing from third party vendors of goods and services which are necessary for our operations, such as fuel, steel products, explosives and tires; and • domestic and international economic conditions. Our results of operations are dependent upon the prices we charge for our coal as well as our ability to improve productivity and control costs. Any decreased demand would cause spot prices to decline and require us to increase productivity and decrease costs in order to maintain our margins. If we are not able to maintain our margins, our operating results could be adversely affected. Therefore, price declines may adversely affect operating results for future periods and our ability to generate cash flows necessary to improve productivity and invest in operations. Changes in market conditions, factors influencing the demand for coal, and increased production costs could adversely affect our revenues. Continued demand for our coal, most of which is sold to plants in North America, and the prices that we will be able to obtain could be adversely affected by factors such as changes in coal consumption patterns. Consumption by the domestic utility industry is affected by the demand for electricity, environmental and other governmental regulations, technological developments and the price of competing coal and alternative fuel supplies including nuclear, natural gas, oil and renewable energy sources. Many of the recently constructed electric power sources have been gas-fired, by virtue of lower construction costs and reduced environmental risks. Gas-based generation from existing and newly constructed gas-based facilities has the potential to displace coal-based generation, particularly from older, less efficient coal generators. In addition, the increasingly stringent requirements of the Clean Air Interstate Rule, or “CAIR” and Clean Air Mercury Rule, or “CAMR”, Rule may result in more electric power generators shifting from coal to natural gas-fired power plants. Any reduction in coal demand from the electric generation and steel sectors could create short-term market imbalances, leading to lower demand for, and price of, our products, thereby reducing our revenue. Higher costs for transporting coal also can have a detrimental impact on coal market demand. Our results are highly dependent 33 Table of Contents upon the prices we receive for our coal. Decreased demand for coal, both domestically and internationally, could cause spot prices and the prices we are able to negotiate on long-term contracts to decline. The lower prices could negatively affect our cash flows, results of operations or financial condition, if we are unable to increase productivity and/or decrease costs in order to maintain our margins. Our revenues also may be adversely affected if production cost increases, including higher costs for labor, materials and equipment, outpace coal market price increases or erode our margins for coal sold under long-term coal supply agreements with pre-determined pricing. Our profitability may decline due to unanticipated mine operating conditions and other factors that are not within our control. Our mining operations are influenced by changing conditions that can affect production levels and costs at particular mines for varying lengths of time and as a result can diminish our profitability. Weather conditions, equipment and parts availability, replacement or repair of equipment, prices and availability for fuel, steel, explosives, tires and other supplies, fires, variations in thickness of the layer, or seam, of coal, amounts of overburden partings, rock and other natural materials, accidental mine water discharges and other geological conditions have had, and can be expected in the future to have, a significant impact on our operating results. Decreases in our profitability as a result of the factors described above could materially adversely impact our quarterly or annual results. These risks may not be covered by our insurance policies. MSHA and state regulators may order certain of our mines to be temporarily closed or operations therein modified, which would adversely affect our ability to meet our contracts or projected costs. MSHA and state regulators may order certain of our mines to be temporarily closed due to an investigation of an accident resulting in property damage or injuries, or due to other incidents such as fires, roof falls, water flow, equipment failure or ventilation concerns. In addition, regulators may order changes to mine plans or operations due to their interpretation or application of existing or new laws or regulations. Any required changes to mine plans or operations may result in temporary idling of production or addition of costs. Our profitability may be adversely affected by the status of our long-term coal supply contracts, and changes in purchasing patterns in the coal industry may make it difficult for us to extend existing contracts or enter into long-term supply contracts, which could adversely affect the capability and profitability of our operations. We sell a significant portion of our coal under long-term coal supply agreements, which we define as contracts with a term greater than 12 months. The prices for coal shipped under these contracts are set, although sometimes subject to adjustment, and thus may be below the current market price for similar-type coal at any given time. As a consequence of the substantial volume of our sales that are subject to these long-term agreements, we have less coal available with which to capitalize on higher coal prices if and when they arise. In addition, in some cases, our ability to realize the higher prices that may be available in the spot market may be restricted when customers elect to purchase higher volumes allowable under some contracts. Conversely, when the prices in our long-term coal supply contracts are significantly higher than prices in the spot market, customers may seek to renegotiate their contractual commitment to purchase the higher priced coal, which could result in an amended contract or in litigation, the outcome of which is uncertain. In such situations, we may elect to renegotiate such contracts for business reasons and capture the contract’s value in differing ways. When our current contracts with customers expire or are otherwise renegotiated, our customers may decide not to extend or enter into new long-term contracts or, in the absence of long-term contracts, our customers may decide to purchase fewer tons of coal than in the past or on different terms, including under different pricing terms. For additional information relating to these contracts, see “Business—Long-Term Coal Supply Agreements”. 34 Table of Contents As electric utilities continue to adjust to the regulations of the Clean Air Act, the CAIR, the regulation of mercury, possible regulation of greenhouse gas emissions and other regulatory changes with respect to plant emissions, and the possible deregulation of their industry, they could become increasingly less willing to enter into long-term coal supply contracts and instead may purchase higher percentages of coal under short-term supply contracts. To the extent the industry shifts away from long-term supply contracts, it could adversely affect us and the level of our revenues. For example, fewer electric utilities will have a contractual obligation to purchase coal from us, thereby increasing the risk that we will not have a market for our production. Furthermore, spot market prices tend to be more volatile than contractual prices, which could result in decreased or less predictable revenues. Certain provisions in our supply contracts may result in economic penalties upon the failure to meet specifications. Most of our coal supply agreements contain provisions requiring us to deliver coal meeting quality thresholds for certain characteristics such as Btu, sulfur content, ash content, hardness and ash fusion temperature. Failure to meet these specifications could result in economic penalties, including price adjustments, the rejection of deliveries or, in the extreme, termination of the contracts. With respect to sulfur, the price of SO2 allowances in the market is sometimes used to adjust the price we receive for coal and the market price for these allowances fluctuate and thus may cause us not to receive the anticipated revenues. Consequently, due to the risks mentioned above with respect to long-term contracts, we may not achieve the revenue or profit we expect to achieve from these sales commitments. The loss of, or significant reduction in, purchases by our largest customers could adversely affect our revenues. We derived 55% of our total coal revenues from sales to our 10 largest customers for the year ended December 31, 2008, with the largest customer accounting for approximately 16% of our coal revenues for that year. At December 31, 2008, we had coal supply agreements with those 10 customers that expire at various times from 2009 to 2020. Negotiations to extend existing agreements or enter into new long-term agreements with those and other customers may not be successful, and those customers may not continue to purchase coal from us under long-term coal supply agreements, or at all. If any of our top customers were to significantly reduce their purchases of coal from us, or if we were unable to sell coal to them on terms as favorable to us as the terms under our current agreements, our revenues and profitability could suffer materially. Disruption in supplies of coal produced by third parties and contractors could temporarily impair our ability to fill our customers’ orders or increase our costs. In addition to marketing coal that is produced from our controlled reserves, we purchase and resell coal produced by third parties from their controlled reserves to meet customer specifications and, in certain circumstances, we also at times utilize contractors to operate our mines or loading facilities. Disruption in our supply of third-party coal and contractor-produced coal could temporarily impair our ability to fill our customers’ orders or require us to pay higher prices in order to obtain the required coal from other sources. Operational difficulties at contractor-operated mines, changes in demand for contract miners from other coal producers, and other factors beyond our control could affect the availability, pricing and quality of coal produced by contractors for us. Any increase in the prices we pay for third-party coal or contractor-produced coal could increase our costs and therefore lower our earnings. Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect our ability to sell coal. Coal with lower production costs shipped east from Western coal mines and from offshore sources has resulted in increased competition for coal sales in the Eastern United States. This competition could result in a decrease in our market share in this region and a decrease in our revenues. 35 Table of Contents Demand for our higher sulfur coal and the price that we can obtain for it is impacted by, among other things, the changing laws with respect to allowable emissions and the price of emission allowances. Significant increases in the price of those allowances could reduce the competitiveness of higher sulfur coal at plants not equipped to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions. Competition from low sulfur coal and possibly natural gas could result in a decrease in the higher-sulfur coal market share and revenues from some of our operations. Overcapacity in the coal industry, both domestically and internationally, may affect the price we receive for our coal. For example, in the past, increased demand for coal and attractive pricing brought new investors to the coal industry and promoted the development of new mines. These factors resulted in added production capacity throughout the industry, which led to increased competition and lower coal prices. Continued coal pricing at relatively high levels, compared to historical levels, could encourage the development of expanded capacity by new or existing coal producers. Any overcapacity could reduce coal prices in the future. The demand for U.S. coal exports is dependent upon a number of factors outside of our control, including the overall demand for electricity in foreign markets, currency exchange rates, ocean freight rates, the demand for foreign-produced steel both in foreign markets and in the U.S. market (which is dependent in part on tariff rates on steel), general economic conditions in foreign countries, technological developments, and environmental and other governmental regulations. If foreign demand for U.S. coal were to decline, this decline could cause competition among coal producers in the United States to intensify, potentially resulting in downward pressure on domestic coal prices. The government extensively regulates our mining operations, which imposes significant actual and potential costs on us, and future regulations could increase those costs or limit our ability to produce coal. Our operations are subject to a variety of federal, state and local environmental, health and safety, transportation, labor and other laws and regulations. Examples include those relating to employee health and safety; emissions to air and discharges to water; plant and wildlife protection; the reclamation and restoration of properties after mining or other activity has been completed; the storage, treatment and disposal of wastes; remediation of contaminated soil, surface and groundwater; surface subsidence from underground mining; noise; and the effects of operations on surface water and groundwater quality and availability. In addition, we are subject to significant legislation mandating certain benefits for current and retired coal miners. We incur substantial costs to comply with government laws and regulations that apply to our mining and other operations. Numerous governmental permits and approvals are required under these laws and regulations for mining and other operations. Many of our permits are subject to renewal from time to time, and renewed permits may contain more restrictive conditions than our existing permits. Many of our permits governing discharges to or impacts upon surface streams and groundwater will be subject to new and more stringent conditions to address various new water quality requirements that permitting authorities are now required to address when those permits are renewed over the next several years. To obtain new permits we may have to petition to have stream quality designations changed based on available data, and if we are unsuccessful we may not be able to operate the planned facility or to operate as planned. Although we have no estimates at this time, our costs to satisfy such conditions could be substantial. We may also be required under certain permits to provide authorities data pertaining to the effect or impact that a proposed exploration for or production of coal may have on the environment. In recent years, the permitting required under the Clean Water Act to address filling streams and other valleys with wastes from mountaintop coal mining operations and preparation plant refuse disposal has been the subject of extensive litigation by environmental groups against coal mining companies and environmental regulatory authorities, as well as regulatory changes by legislative initiatives in the U.S. Congress. It is unclear at this time how the issues will ultimately be resolved, but for this as well as other issues that may arise involving permits necessary for coal mining and other operation, such requirements could prove costly and time-consuming, and could delay commencing or continuing exploration or production operations. New laws and regulations, as well as future interpretations or different enforcement of existing laws and regulations, may require substantial increases in equipment and operating costs to us and delays, interruptions or a termination of operations, the extent of which we cannot predict. 36 Table of Contents Because of extensive and comprehensive regulatory requirements, violations of laws, regulations and permits occur at our operations from time to time and may result in significant costs to us to correct such violations, as well as civil or criminal penalties and limitations or shutdowns of our operations. Extensive regulation of these matters has had and will continue to have a significant effect on our costs of production and competitive position. Further regulations, legislation or enforcement may also cause our sales or profitability to decline by hindering our ability to continue our mining operations, by increasing our costs or by causing coal to become a less attractive fuel source. See “Business—Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters” for a discussion of some of the environmental and other regulations affecting our business. Our operations may substantially impact the environment or cause exposure to hazardous substances, and our properties may have significant environmental contamination, any of which could result in material liabilities to us. We use, and in the past have used, hazardous materials and generate, and in the past have generated, hazardous wastes. In addition, many of the locations that we own or operate were used for coal mining and/or involved hazardous materials usage before we were involved with those locations as well as after. We may be subject to claims under federal and state statutes, and/or common law doctrines, for toxic torts, natural resource damages, and other damages as well as the investigation and clean up of soil, surface water, groundwater, and other media. Such claims may arise, for example, out of current or former conditions at sites that we own or operate currently, as well as at sites that we or predecessor entities owned or operated in the past, and at contaminated sites that have always been owned or operated by third parties. Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other damages, or even for the entire share. We have from time to time been subject to claims arising out of contamination at our own and other facilities and may incur such liabilities in the future. Our operations can also impact flows and water quality in surface water bodies and remedial measures may be required, such as grouting cracks or lining of stream beds, to prevent or minimize such impacts. We are currently involved with state environmental authorities concerning impacts or alleged impacts of our mining operations on water flows in several surface streams. We are studying, or addressing, those impacts and we have not finally resolved those matters. Many of our mining operations take place in the vicinity of streams, and similar impacts could be asserted or identified at other streams in the future. The costs of our efforts at the streams we are currently addressing, and at any other streams that may be identified in the future, could be significant. Our mining and oil and gas operations also generate water which we need to collect and dispose of or treat. In the past we have sometimes disposed of this water in mined out areas or in permitted refuse impoundments. If we are unable to obtain permits for this type of water disposal in the future our costs to operate may increase substantially. We maintain extensive coal slurry impoundments at a number of our mines. Such impoundments are subject to regulation. Slurry impoundments maintained by other coal mining operations have been known to fail, releasing large volumes of coal slurry. Structural failure of an impoundment can result in extensive damage to the environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water that the coal slurry reaches, as well as liability for related personal injuries and property damages, and injuries to wildlife. Some of our impoundments overlie mined out areas, which can pose a heightened risk of failure and of damages arising out of failure. We have commenced measures to modify our method of operation at one surface impoundment containing slurry wastes in order to reduce the risk of releases to the environment from it, a process that will take several years to complete. If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated liability, as well as for fines and penalties. The level of insurance we carry to cover exposures for this type or occurrence and other unanticipated events may not be adequate. These and other impacts that our operations may have on the environment, as well as exposures to hazardous substances or wastes associated with our operations and environmental conditions at our properties, could result in costs and liabilities that would materially and adversely affect us. 37 Table of Contents Extensive environmental regulations affect our customers and could reduce the demand for coal as a fuel source and cause our sales to decline. The Clean Air Act and similar state and local laws extensively regulate the amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and other compounds emitted into the air from electric power plants, which are the largest end-users of our coal. Such regulations may require significant emissions control expenditures for existing and new coal-fired power plants to attain applicable ambient air quality standards. In addition, state regulatory schemes for electricity pricing may be administered to not permit recovery of investments in emissions control equipment. As a result, these generators may switch to fuels that generate less of these emissions, possibly reducing the likelihood that generators will keep existing coal-fired power plants in service or build new coal-fired power plants. Any of these developments may reduce demand for our coal. For example, the final CAIR was issued by the EPA in 2005. The rule calls for power plants in Texas and 27 states bordering or east of the Mississippi River, and the District of Columbia, to reduce emission levels of sulfur dioxide and nitrous oxide. At full implementation, CAIR is estimated by the EPA to cut regional sulfur dioxide emissions by more than 70% from the 2003 levels, and to cut nitrogen oxide emissions by more then 60% from 2003 levels. States must achieve the required emission reductions using one of two compliance options. The first alternative is for the state to require power plants to participate in an EPA administered “cap-and-trade” system that caps emissions in two stages. This cap and trade approach is similar to the system now in effect under other regulations controlling air pollution. Alternatively, a state can elect to meet a specific state emissions budget through measures of the state’s choosing. These state measures will be at least as stringent as those imposed by CAIR. The stringency of the caps may require many coal-fired sources to install additional pollution control equipment to comply. This increased sulfur emission removal capability caused by the proposed rule could result in decreased demand for low sulfur coal, potentially driving down prices for low sulfur coal. After the passage of CAIR, different entities and organizations challenged the rule on various bases. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit (State of North Carolina, et al. v. EPA, No. 05-1244) on July 11, 2008 issued its decision in litigation challenging CAIR. The decision vacated CAIR and the CAIR federal implementation plan in their entirety. The decision remanded CAIR to EPA to promulgate a rule that complies with the court’s opinion. The court ruled against the EPA on several of the core aspects of the rule, including: CAIR’s use of unrestricted interstate trading; the 2015 compliance deadline for Phase 2 of CAIR; the use of Title IV allowances at a heightened surrender ratio for compliance with the SO2 part of CAIR; and EPA’s determination of the SO2 and NOx emission budgets. The court also struck down emission allowance trading in CAIR, holding that unrestricted trading might result in no emission reductions in an upwind state, thereby preventing the EPA from fulfilling its responsibility under the Clean Air Act to prohibit sources in one state from contributing to non-attainment in another state. Ultimately, this ruling may significantly impact the EPA’s potential future ability to address interstate pollution transport with a cap-and-trade system. The court also rejected an EPA “fairness” argument and ruled that it was inappropriate for the EPA to divide a region wide NOx budget among the states, and essentially remove each state’s responsibility to eliminate its own significant contribution to downwind pollution. After this ruling, later in 2008 the EPA petitioned the court for a rehearing. After briefing by all parties, in December 2008 the court ruled that a complete vacatur of the rule would sacrifice clear benefits to public health and the environment while the EPA works to fix the deficiencies found by the court. Thus CAIR will be in effect while the EPA modifies the rule. How the EPA will proceed to modify CAIR is uncertain at this time. In 2005, the EPA finalized a CAMR for controlling mercury emissions from power plants by imposing a two-step approach to reducing, between now and 2018, the total mercury emissions allowed from coal-fired power plants nationwide. The approach adopted sets a mandatory, declining cap on the total mercury emissions allowed from coal-fired power plants nationwide. This “cap-and-trade” approach is similar to the approach under the CAIR rule discussed above. This approach, which allows mercury emissions trading, when combined with the CAIR regulations, will reduce mercury emissions by nearly 70% from current levels once facilities reach a final mercury cap which takes effect in 2018. Current mercury emissions from United States power plants are about 48 tons per year. The first phase cap is 38 tons beginning in 2010. EPA estimates that much of this reduction will come as a “co-benefit” of the pollution control devices installed under the CAIR regulations. The 38 Table of Contents final cap is set at 15 tons per year beginning in 2018. Each state has been allocated a budget of mercury emissions and must submit a plan on meeting its budget for mercury reductions. The states are not required to adopt the cap-and-trade approach, but many took that approach. Alternatively, a state can elect to meet a specific state emissions budget through measures of the state’s choosing. On February 8, 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit struck down the EPA’s regulations for reducing mercury emissions from coal-fired power plants. The effect of the court’s ruling is to maintain power plants on the list of hazardous air pollutant sources subject to regulation under section 112 of the Clean Air Act and to invalidate the EPA’s “cap-and-trade” approach to regulation of mercury emissions. Both the EPA and industry appealed the decision to the United States Supreme Court after the lower court denied a petition for rehearing. In February 2009 the EPA announced it would withdraw this appeal and proceed to draft regulations for use of “maximum achievable control technologies”, or “MACT” under section 112 of the Clean Air Act, and if the United States Supreme Court declined to rehear the case. The EPA rulemaking process will likely take several years. After a rule is issued, affected utilities would have three years to comply with the standard. Separate state standards may also be passed and applied in the interim. A MACT standard could increase the cost of consuming coal and impact the demand for coals with various amounts or compounds of mercury contained therein. Some of our coal supply agreements contain provisions that allow a purchaser to terminate its contract if legislation is passed that either restricts the use or type of coal permissible at the purchaser’s plant or results in specified increases in the cost of coal or its use. These factors and legislation, if enacted, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or cash flow. Current and future proposals may be introduced in Congress and various states designed to further reduce emissions of sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides and mercury from power plants, and certain ones could regulate additional emissions such as carbon dioxide. If such initiatives are enacted into law, power plant operators could choose other fuel sources to meet their requirements, thereby reducing the demand for coal. Current and possible future governmental programs are or may be in place to require the purchase and trading of allowances associated with the emission of various substances such as sulfur dioxide, nitrous oxide, mercury and carbon dioxide. Changes in the markets for and prices of allowances could have a material effect on demand for and prices received for our coal. The United States and more than 160 other nations are signatories to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which is intended to limit emissions of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide which is a major by-product of burning coal. In December 1997, in Kyoto, Japan, the signatories to the convention agreed to the Kyoto Protocol (the “Protocol”) which is a binding set of emission targets for developed nations. Although the specific emission targets vary from country to country, if the United States were to ratify the Protocol, our nation would be required to reduce emissions to 93% of 1990 levels over a five-year period from 2008 through 2012. The United States has not ratified the Protocol. The Protocol which expires in 2012 has received sufficient support from enough nations to enter into force and will become binding on all those countries that have ratified it. As part of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, representatives from 187 nations met in Bali, Indonesia in December 2007 to discuss a program to limit greenhouse gas emissions after 2012. The United States participated in the conference. The convention adopted what is called the “Bali Action Plan.” The Bali Action Plan contains no binding commitments, but concludes that “deep cuts in global emissions will be required” and provides a timetable for two years of talks to shape the first formal addendum to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change treaty since the Kyoto Protocol. The ultimate outcome of the Bali Action Plan, and any treaty or other arrangement ultimately adopted by the United States or other countries, may have a material adverse impact the global supply and demand for coal and the costs to consume coal and conduct our operations. This is particularly true if cost effective technology for the capture and sequestration of carbon dioxide is not sufficiently developed. Although the Protocol is still not binding on the United States and the Bali Action Plan is just commencing, and because no comprehensive regulations focusing on greenhouse gas emissions are in place, these restrictions, 39 Table of Contents whether through ratification of global agreements or other efforts to stabilize or reduce greenhouse gas emissions, could adversely affect the price and demand for coal. Countries that have to reduce emissions may use less coal affecting demand for United States export coal. There could be pressure on companies in the United States to reduce emissions if they want to trade with countries that are part of the Protocol or subsequent global agreements. From time to time Congress may consider various proposals to tax or otherwise limit greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, some states and municipalities in the United States have adopted or may adopt in the future regulations on greenhouse gas emissions. Some states and municipal entities have commenced litigation in different jurisdictions seeking to have certain utilities, including some of our customers, reduce their emission of carbon dioxide. If successful, there could be limitation on the amount of coal our customers could utilize. Any of these measures could affect coal demand at utilities in the United States. See “Business—Environmental and Other Regulatory Matters” for a discussion of some of the environmental and other regulations affecting our business. Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of transportation could reduce revenues by causing us to reduce our production or impairing our ability to supply coal to our customers. Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of coal for our customers and, as a result, the cost of transportation is a critical factor in a customer’s purchasing decision. Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source of energy or could make our coal production less competitive than coal produced from other sources. Some of our mines depend on a single transportation carrier or a single mode of transportation. Disruption of any of these transportation services due to weather-related problems, flooding, drought, accidents, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks, and other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply coal to our customers. Transportation providers may face difficulties in the future that may impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, resulting in decreased revenues. If there are disruptions of the transportation services provided by the primary rail, barge or truck carriers that transport our produced coal and we are unable to make alternative transportation arrangements to ship our coal, our business could be adversely affected. Because our profitability is substantially dependent on the availability of an adequate supply of coal reserves that can be mined at competitive costs, the unavailability of these types of reserves would cause our profitability to decline. We have not yet applied for all of the permits required, or developed the mines necessary, to use all of our reserves. Furthermore, we may not be able to mine all of our reserves as profitably as we do at our current operations. Our planned development projects and acquisition activities may not result in significant additional reserves and we may not have continuing success developing new mines or expanding existing mines beyond our existing reserves. Most of our mining operations are conducted on properties owned or leased by us. Because title to most of our leased properties and mineral rights is not thoroughly verified until a permit to mine the property is obtained, our right to mine some of our reserves may be materially adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist. In addition, in order to develop our reserves, we must receive various governmental permits. We may be unable to obtain the permits necessary for us to operate profitably in the future. Some of these permits are becoming increasingly more difficult and expensive to obtain and the review process continues to lengthen. Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine coal reserves that have the geological characteristics that enable them to be mined at competitive costs and to meet the quality needed by our customers. Replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. We may not be able to accurately assess the geological characteristics of any reserves that we now own or subsequently acquire, which may 40 Table of Contents adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. Exhaustion of reserves at particular mines also may have an adverse effect on our operating results that is disproportionate to the percentage of overall production represented by such mines. Our ability to obtain other reserves through acquisitions in the future could be limited by restrictions under our existing or future debt agreements, competition from other coal companies for attractive properties, the lack of suitable acquisition candidates or the inability to acquire coal properties on commercially reasonable terms. We face numerous uncertainties in estimating our economically recoverable coal reserves, and inaccuracies in our estimates could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability. We base our reserve information on engineering, economic and geological data assembled and analyzed by our staff, which includes various engineers and geologists, and which is periodically reviewed by outside firms. The reserve estimates as to both quantity and quality are annually updated to reflect production of coal from the reserves and new drilling, engineering or other data received. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities and qualities of and costs to mine recoverable reserves, including many factors beyond our control. Estimates of economically recoverable coal reserves and net cash flows necessarily depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, such as geological and mining conditions which may not be fully identified by available exploration data or which may differ from experience in current operations, historical production from the area compared with production from other similar producing areas, the assumed effects of regulation and taxes by governmental agencies and assumptions concerning coal prices, operating costs, mining technology improvements, severance and excise tax, development costs and reclamation costs, all of which may vary considerably from actual results. For these reasons, estimates of the economically recoverable quantities and qualities attributable to any particular group of properties, classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of net cash flows expected from particular reserves prepared by different engineers or by the same engineers at different times may vary substantially. Actual coal tonnage recovered from identified reserve areas or properties and revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves may vary materially from estimates. These estimates thus may not accurately reflect our actual reserves. Any inaccuracy in our estimates related to our reserves could result in lower than expected revenues, higher than expected costs or decreased profitability. Defects in title or loss of any leasehold interests in our properties could limit our ability to mine these properties or result in significant unanticipated costs. We conduct a significant part of our mining operations on properties that we lease. A title defect or the loss of any lease could adversely affect our ability to mine the associated reserves. In addition, from time to time the rights of third parties for competing uses of adjacent, overlying, or underlying lands such as for oil and gas activity, coalbed methane, production, pipelines, roads, easements and public facilities may affect our ability to operate as planned if our title is not superior or arrangements cannot be negotiated. Title to much of our leased properties and fee mineral rights is not usually verified until we make a commitment to develop a property, which may not occur until after we have obtained necessary permits and completed exploration of the property. Our right to mine some of our reserves has in the past been, and may again in the future be, adversely affected if defects in title or boundaries exist or competing interests cannot be resolved. In order to obtain leases or other rights to conduct our mining operations on property where these defects exist, we may in the future have to incur unanticipated costs or leave un-mined the affected reserves. In addition, we may not be able to successfully purchase or negotiate new leases for properties containing additional reserves, or maintain our leasehold interests in properties where we have not commenced mining operations during the term of the lease. 41 Table of Contents Acquisitions that we may undertake would involve a number of inherent risks, any of which could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result. Our strategy includes opportunistically expanding our operations and mineral reserves through acquisitions of businesses and assets, mergers, joint ventures or other transactions. Such transactions involve various inherent risks, such as: • uncertainties in assessing the value, strengths and potential profitability of, and identifying the extent of all weaknesses, risks, contingent and other liabilities (including environmental liabilities) of, acquisition or other transaction candidates; • the potential loss of key customers, management and employees of an acquired business; • the inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition or other transaction; • problems that could arise from the integration of the acquired business; and • unanticipated changes in business, industry or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition or other transaction rationale. Any one or more of these and other factors could cause us not to realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisition of businesses or assets or could result in unexpected liabilities associated with the acquired businesses. Expenditures for benefits for non-active employees could be materially higher than we have anticipated, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our financial results. We are responsible for certain long-term liabilities under a variety of benefit plans and other arrangements with active and inactive employees. The unfunded status (the excess of projected benefit obligation over plan assets) of these obligations, as reflected in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements at December 31, 2008, included $557.6 million of postretirement obligations, $116.0 million of defined benefit pension obligations, $32.3 million of workers’ compensation obligations and $20.8 million of self-insured pneumoconiosis obligations. These obligations have been estimated based on assumptions including actuarial estimates, assumed discount rates, estimates of mine lives, expected returns on pension plan assets and changes in health care costs. We could be required to expend greater amounts than anticipated. In addition, future regulatory and accounting changes relating to these benefits could result in increased obligations or additional costs, which could also have a material adverse affect on our financial results. Several states in which we operate consider changes in workers’ compensation laws from time to time, which, if enacted, could adversely affect us. The inability of the sellers of companies we have acquired to fulfill their indemnification obligations to us under our acquisition agreements could increase our liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. In our acquisition and disposition agreements, the respective sellers and buyers, and in some cases, their parent companies, agreed to retain responsibility for and indemnify us against damages resulting from certain third-party claims or other liabilities. These third-party claims and other liabilities include, without limitation, employee liabilities, costs associated with various litigation matters related to the mines involved, and certain environmental liabilities. The failure of any seller or buyer and, if applicable, its parent company, to satisfy its obligations with respect to claims and retained liabilities covered by the relevant agreements could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position because claimants may successfully assert that we are liable for those claims and/or retained liabilities. In addition, certain obligations of the sellers to indemnify us will terminate or have already terminated upon expiration of the applicable indemnification period and will not cover damages in excess of the applicable indemnity coverage limit. The assertion of third-party claims after the expiration of the applicable indemnification period or in excess of the applicable coverage limit, 42 Table of Contents or the failure of any seller to satisfy its indemnification obligations with respect to breaches of its representations and warranties, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our leverage could harm our business by limiting our available cash and our access to additional capital, and could force us to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service obligations. Our financial performance could be affected by our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2008, our total indebtedness was $599.8 million. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, we had $170.9 million of letters of credit outstanding and additional borrowings available under our revolving credit facility of $329.1 million. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. The degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including, but not limited to: • making it more difficult to self-insure and obtain surety bonds or letters of credit; • limiting our ability to enter into new long-term sales contracts; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of principal of, and interest on, our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of the cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development or other general corporate uses; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, debt service requirements or other general corporate requirements; • making it more difficult for us to pay interest and satisfy our debt obligations; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and in the coal industry; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors. In addition, our indebtedness subjects us to financial and other restrictive covenants. Failure by us to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, substantially all of our material assets secure our indebtedness under our Senior Secured Credit Facility. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations or our requirements under our other long-term liabilities, we may be forced to sell assets, seek additional capital or seek to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or our requirements under our other long term liabilities. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our Senior Secured Credit Facility and the indenture under which our 7.25% Senior Notes were issued restrict our ability to sell assets and use the proceeds from the sales. We may not be able to consummate those sales or to obtain the proceeds which we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. If our business does not generate sufficient cash from operations, we may not be able to repay our indebtedness. Our ability to pay principal and interest on and to refinance our debt depends upon the operating performance of our subsidiaries, which will be affected by, among other things, general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In particular, economic conditions could cause the price of coal to fall, our revenue to decline, and hamper our ability to repay our indebtedness. 43 Table of Contents Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facility or otherwise in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, which may result in higher borrowing costs. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, on terms acceptable to us or at all. Despite our current leverage, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The terms of our indebtedness do not prohibit Foundation Coal Holdings, Inc. or our subsidiaries from doing so. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. The covenants in our Senior Secured Credit Facility and our indenture impose restrictions that may limit our operating and financial flexibility. The Senior Secured Credit Facility, our indenture governing the 7.25% Senior Notes and the instruments governing our other indebtedness contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit the ability of our subsidiaries to enter into certain financial arrangements or engage in specified transactions, including the payment of certain dividends. Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in our being unable to comply with our financial covenants contained in our Senior Secured Credit Facility. If we violate these covenants and are unable to obtain waivers from our lenders, our debt under these agreements would be in default and could be accelerated by our lenders. If our indebtedness is accelerated, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if we are able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. If our debt is in default for any reason, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may make it more difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy and compete against companies who are not subject to such restrictions. Failure to maintain required surety bonds could affect our ability to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations, which could adversely affect our ability to mine or lease the coal. Failure to maintain capacity for required letters of credit could limit our available borrowing capacity under our Senior Secured Credit Facility and could negatively impact our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements. We are required to provide financial assurance to secure our obligations to reclaim lands used for mining, to secure payment of federal and state workers’ compensation and pneumoconiosis benefits, to secure coal lease obligations and to satisfy other miscellaneous obligations. We generally use surety bonds to secure reclamation and coal lease obligations. We generally use letters of credit to assure workers’ compensation benefits, UMWA retiree medical benefits and as collateral for surety bonds. Miscellaneous obligations are secured using both surety bonds and letters of credit. As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding surety bonds of $300.3 million, which includes $275.2 million secured reclamation obligations; $15.7 million secured coal lease obligations; $7.1 million secured self-insured workers’ compensation obligations; and $2.3 million secured miscellaneous obligations. The premium rates and terms of the surety bonds are subject to annual renewals. It has become increasingly difficult for us to secure new surety bonds or renew bonds without the posting of partial collateral. In addition, surety bond costs have increased while the market terms of surety bonds have generally become less favorable to us. Our failure to maintain, or inability to acquire, surety bonds that are required by state and federal law would affect our ability to 44 Table of Contents secure reclamation and coal lease obligations, which could adversely affect our ability to mine or lease the coal. That failure could result from a variety of factors including the following: • lack of availability, higher expense or unfavorable market terms of new surety bonds; and • restrictions on the availability of collateral for current and future third-party surety bond issuers under the terms of the indenture or new credit facilities. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, we had $170.9 million of letters of credit in place for the following purposes: $39.1 million for workers’ compensation, including collateral for workers’ compensation bonds; $8.1 million for UMWA retiree health care obligations; $117.1 million related to collateral for reclamation surety bonds; and $6.6 million for other miscellaneous obligations. Obligations secured by letters of credit may increase in the future. Any such increase would limit our available borrowing capacity under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and could negatively impact our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate requirements. Due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposure under those plans that extend beyond what our obligation would be with respect to our employees. We contribute to two multi-employer defined benefit pension plans administered by the UMWA. In 2008, our total contributions to these plans and other contractual payments under our UMWA wage agreement were approximately $14.1 million. In the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by us from any plan which is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Based on the information available from plan administrators, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination would be material to our financial position and results of operations. In the event that any other contributing employer withdraws from any plan which is underfunded, and such employer (or any member in its controlled group) cannot satisfy its obligations under the plan at the time of withdrawal, then we, along with the other remaining contributing employers, would be liable for our proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (“Pension Act”) requires a minimum funding ratio of 80% be maintained for this multi-employer pension plan and if the plan is determined to have a funding ratio of less than 80%, it will be deemed to be “endangered”, and if less than 60% it will deemed to be “critical”, and will in either case be subject to additional funding requirements. Based on an estimated funding percentage of 91.4%, a certification was provided by the multi-employer plan actuary, stating that the plan is in neither “endangered” or “critical” status for the plan year beginning July 1, 2008. However, the current volatile economic environment and the rapid deterioration in equity markets since July 1, 2008 may have caused investment income and the value of investments held in the 1974 Pension Trust to decline and lose value. If a subsequent estimate of the funding ratio performed by the multi-employer plan actuary were to deem the plan to be in “endangered” or “critical” status, such a determination would require certain of our subsidiaries to make additional contributions pursuant to a funding improvement plan implemented in accordance with the Pension Act, and, therefore, could have a material impact on our operating results. Our pension plans are currently underfunded and we may have to make significant cash payments to the plans, reducing the cash available for our business. We sponsor pension plans in the United States for salaried and non-union hourly employees. For these plans, the Pension Act requires a funding target of 100% of the present value of accrued benefits. The Pension Act includes a funding target phase-in provision that establishes a funding target of 92% in 2008, 94% in 2009, 96% in 2010 and 100% thereafter for defined benefit pension plans. Generally, any such plan with a funding ratio of less than 80% will be deemed at risk and will be subject to additional funding requirements under the Pension 45 Table of Contents Act. The current volatile economic environment and the rapid deterioration in the equity markets since July 1, 2008 may have caused investment income and the value of investment assets held in our pension trust to decline and lose value. As a result, we may be required to increase the amount of cash contributions into the pension trust in order to comply with the funding requirements of the Pension Act. In 2008 we contributed $11.3 million to our pension plans. We currently expect to make contributions in 2009 of approximately $30.0 million to maintain at least an 80% funding ratio. As of December 31, 2008, our annual measurement date, our pension plans were underfunded by $116.0 million (based on the actuarial assumptions used for Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans—an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) (“SFAS No. 158”). Our pension plans are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”). Under ERISA, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, has the authority to terminate an underfunded pension plan under limited circumstances. In the event our U.S. pension plans are terminated for any reason while the plans are underfunded, we will incur a liability to the PBGC that may be equal to the entire amount of the underfunding. Our financial condition could be negatively affected if we fail to maintain satisfactory labor relations. As of December 31, 2008, the UMWA represented approximately 34% of our affiliate’s employees, who produced approximately 19% of our coal sales volume during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. The mines represented by the UMWA include Emerald and Cumberland longwall mines in Pennsylvania. These subsidiaries have distinct collective bargaining agreements. Because of the higher labor costs and the increased risk of strikes and other work-related stoppages that may be associated with union operations in the coal industry, our non-unionized competitors may have a competitive advantage in areas where they compete with unionized operations. If some or all of our current non-union operations were to become unionized, we could incur an increased risk of work stoppages, reduced productivity and higher labor costs. The two existing collective bargaining agreements with the UMWA expire at the end of the fourth quarter of 2011. If the applicable subsidiaries are unable to reach a mutually acceptable replacement agreement, it could adversely affect their productivity, increase their costs and disrupt shipments, or result in the closure of the mine due to a strike by the workers or a lockout by local management. Wage agreements between three affiliates of the Company and the UMWA expired on or shortly after March 31, 2007. Specifically, the wage agreement for Wabash expired at 11:59 p.m. on March 31, 2007 and the UMWA wage agreements with Cumberland Coal Resources, LP (“Cumberland”) and Emerald Coal Resources, LP (“Emerald”) expired at 11:59 p.m. on April 1, 2007. Negotiations between these respective subsidiaries and the UMWA commenced in early January of 2007 but intensified in late March of 2007 and continued through April 3, 2007. Emerald and Cumberland reiterated their willingness to sign the 2007 National Bituminous Coal Operators Association (“BCOA”) UMWA wage agreement. Wabash would not sign the BCOA agreement. The hourly workforce continued to work without a formal agreement of the parties under the terms of the expired wage agreement until 12:01 a.m. on April 4, 2007 at which time, alleging unfair labor practices by Wabash, Emerald and Cumberland, the UMWA represented hourly workforces went on strike at the Wabash, Emerald and Cumberland mines. Subsequent to the commencement of a UMWA strike on April 4, 2007, Wabash announced the idling of the mine in southern Illinois. The mine had become economically unviable at that time as a result of a combination of factors, including aged infrastructure, softening market conditions and the prospect of a new higher cost labor contract with the UMWA. On April 10, 2007, negotiations between the UMWA and the three subsidiaries resumed. In the early evening of April 12, 2007, it was announced that the UMWA and the three subsidiaries had reached agreement and that the workforces at Emerald and Cumberland would return to work. Wabash remained idled and the effects of the idling had been negotiated with the UMWA. 46 Table of Contents In November 2003, the UMWA held an election at our Rockspring mining facility in West Virginia. The UMWA challenged nine unopened ballots as being improperly cast by supervisors. The outcome of the election will depend on the decision of the National Labor Relation Board (the “NLRB”) with respect to the nine challenged ballots, which ballots will not be opened until final resolution of the challenge. On February 5, 2004, the Regional Director of the NLRB ruled that only five of the nine challenged ballots could be counted. Both parties appealed to the full NLRB. In 2006, the NLRB ordered five of the nine ballots to be opened. All were votes against the UMWA. This resulted in a revised tally of 110 for UMWA representation and 108 against the UMWA. The 4 remaining unopened ballots are determinative. By Order dated October 12, 2006, the Regional Director transferred the case back to the Board for further consideration of the remaining determinative challenged ballots. On February 27, 2009, the NLRB ordered that all four ballots be opened and counted. If it is ultimately determined that the UMWA was validly elected, approximately 305 employees will be represented by the UMWA. In the event the Rockspring mining facility becomes unionized, we will bargain in good faith towards an acceptable collective bargaining agreement. If we are unable to do so, there could be strikes or other work stoppages detrimental to the normal operation of the Rockspring mining facility. A shortage of skilled labor in the mining industry could pose a risk to achieving improved labor productivity and competitive costs, which could adversely affect our profitability. Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled laborers, preferably with at least a year of experience and proficiency in multiple mining tasks. In the event the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our coal. Our ability to operate our company effectively could be impaired if we lose key personnel. We manage our business with a number of key personnel. The loss of certain of these key individuals could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, as our business develops and expands, we believe that our future success will depend greatly on our continued ability to retain and attract highly skilled and qualified personnel. Key personnel may not continue to be employed by us or we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on us. Mining in Central Appalachia and Northern Appalachia is more complex and involves more regulatory constraints than mining in the other areas, which could affect the mining operations and cost structures of these areas. The geological characteristics of Central Appalachia and Northern Appalachia coal reserves, such as depth of overburden and coal seam thickness, make them complex and costly to mine. As mines become depleted, replacement reserves may not be available when required or, if available, may not be capable of being mined at costs comparable to those characteristic of the depleting mines. In addition, as compared to mines in the Powder River Basin, permitting, licensing and other environmental and regulatory requirements are more costly and time-consuming to satisfy. These factors could materially adversely affect the mining operations and cost structures of, and customers’ ability to use coal produced by, our mines in Central Appalachia and Northern Appalachia. Our ability to collect payments from our customers could be impaired if their creditworthiness deteriorates. Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the continued creditworthiness of our customers. The current volatile economic environment and tight credit market conditions increase collection risks, particularly from industrial companies and non-regulated electricity generators. Our customer base is 47 Table of Contents changing with deregulation as utilities sell their power plants to their non-regulated affiliates or third parties. These new power plant owners may have credit ratings that are below investment grade. If there is deterioration of the creditworthiness of electric power generator customers or trading counterparties, our business could be adversely affected. In addition, competition with other coal suppliers could force us to extend credit to customers and on terms that could increase the risk we bear on payment default. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist attacks and threats, escalation of military activity in response to such attacks or acts of war may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is affected by general economic conditions, fluctuations in consumer confidence and spending, and market liquidity, which can decline as a result of numerous factors outside of our control, such as terrorist attacks and acts of war. Future terrorist attacks against U.S. targets, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions affecting our customers may materially adversely affect our operations. As a result, there could be delays or losses in transportation and deliveries of coal to our customers, decreased sales of our coal and extension of time for payment of accounts receivable from our customers. Strategic targets such as energy-related assets may be at greater risk of future terrorist attacks than other targets in the United States. In addition, disruption or significant increases in energy prices could result in government-imposed price controls. It is possible that any, or a combination, of these occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage a takeover attempt even if doing so might be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws impose various procedural and other requirements, which could make it more difficult for shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. For example, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to determine the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of unissued series of preferred stock, without any vote or action by our shareholders. Thus, our board of directors can authorize and issue shares of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting or other rights of holders of our common stock. These rights may have the effect of delaying or deterring a change of control of our company. These provisions could limit the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. The current global financial crisis may have significant effects on our customers and suppliers that could result in material adverse effects on our business, operating results, and stock price. The current financial crisis and deteriorating economic conditions may have material adverse impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. As widely reported, economic conditions in the United States and globally have been deteriorating. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil and upheaval characterized by extreme volatility and declines in security prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, inability to access capital markets, the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government and other governments. Unemployment has risen while business and consumer confidence have declined, and there are fears of a prolonged recession. Demand for our products may drop and we may not be able to sell all the product we are capable of producing. This can impact our cost structure, revenues and opportunities for future growth. Although we cannot predict the impacts of the deteriorating economic conditions on us, our customers and our suppliers, these conditions could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. 48 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. We received a comment letter from the Securities Exchange Commission Staff (the “Staff”) dated July 31, 2008 regarding our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 that was filed February 29, 2008; our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 that was Filed May 9, 2008 and our Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A that was filed April 8, 2008. The comments generally related to subject matter addressed in the Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Form 10-Q and Form 10-K and subject matter addressed in our Compensation Discussion and Analysis in our Proxy Statement. We have exchanged correspondence with the Staff several times. With respect to our Form 10-Q filing we addressed the Staff comments in our Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended September 30, 2008 that was filed November 7, 2008. We have addressed the Staff’s comments regarding our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 in this filing. Regarding our Proxy Statement there remains one open comment that relates to the disclosure of the metrics for the individual performance targets for each named executive officer. 49 Table of Contents 