Item 1A. Risk Factors. There are several factors, some beyond our control that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Some of these factors are described below. Other factors, such as market, operational, liquidity, interest rate and other risks, are described elsewhere in this report (see, for example, Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations). Any factor described in this report could by itself, or together with one or more factors, adversely affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. There may be factors not described in this report that could also cause results to differ from our expectations. The failure of certain employers, or the closure of certain manufacturing and other facilities in our markets, can have a disproportionate impact on our hospitals. The economies in the non-urban communities in which our hospitals operate are often dependant on a small number of large employers, especially manufacturing or other facilities. These employers often provide income and health insurance for a disproportionately large number of community residents who may depend on our hospitals for care. The failure of one or more large employers, or the closure or substantial reduction in the number of individuals employed at manufacturing or other facilities located in or near many of the non-urban communities in which our hospitals operate, could cause affected employees to move elsewhere for employment or lose insurance coverage that was otherwise available to them. The occurrence of these events may cause a material reduction in our revenues and results of operations or impede our business strategies intended to generate organic growth and improve operating results at our hospitals. We may continue to see the growth of uninsured and “patient due” accounts, and deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our collections of accounts receivable, results of operations and cash flows. The primary collection risks associated with our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and co-payments) remain outstanding. The provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. This risk has increased, and will likely continue to increase, as more individuals enroll in high deductible insurance plans or those with high co-payments or who have no insurance coverage. These trends will likely be exacerbated if general economic conditions remain challenging or if unemployment levels in the communities in which we operate rise. As unemployment rates increase, our business strategies to generate organic growth and to improve admissions and adjusted admissions at our hospitals could become more difficult to accomplish. The amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based on our assessments of historical collection trends, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health coverage and other collection indicators. A continuation in trends that results in increasing the proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and deterioration in the collectability of these accounts could adversely affect our collections of accounts receivable, results of operations and cash flows. The recent economic recession, along with current conditions in the capital and credit markets, could materially adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The United States economy recently emerged from an economic recession and unemployment levels remain high. Declining consumer confidence and high unemployment have increased concerns of prolonged economic weakness. While certain healthcare spending is considered non-discretionary and may not be significantly impacted by economic downturns, other types of healthcare spending may be adversely impacted by such conditions. When patients are experiencing personal financial difficulties or have concerns about general economic conditions, they may choose to defer or forego elective surgeries and other non-emergent procedures, which are generally more profitable lines of business for hospitals. Moreover, a greater number of uninsured patients may seek care in our emergency rooms. We are unable to determine the specific impact of these economic conditions on our business at this time, but we believe that future deterioration will have an adverse impact on our operations and could impact not only the healthcare decisions of our patients, but also the solvency of managed care providers and other counterparties to transactions with us. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our revenues will decline if federal or state programs reduce our Medicare or Medicaid payments or if managed care companies reduce reimbursement amounts. In addition, the financial condition of payors and healthcare cost containment initiatives may limit our revenues and profitability. In 2009, we derived 39.9% of our revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The Medicare and Medicaid programs are subject to statutory and regulatory changes, administrative rulings, interpretations and determinations concerning patient eligibility requirements, funding levels and the method of calculating payments or reimbursements, among other things; requirements for utilization review; and federal and state funding restrictions, all of which could materially increase or decrease payments from these government programs in the future, as well as affect the timing of payments to our facilities. We are unable to predict the effect of future government healthcare funding policy changes on our operations. If the rates paid by governmental payers are reduced, if the scope of services covered by governmental payers is limited or if we, or one or more of our subsidiaries’ hospitals, are excluded from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid program or any other government healthcare program, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. During the past several years, healthcare payors, such as federal and state governments, insurance companies and employers, have undertaken initiatives to revise payment methodologies and monitor healthcare costs. As part of their efforts to contain healthcare costs, payors increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk relating to paying for care provided, often in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. We expect efforts to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and other payors to continue, thereby reducing the payments we receive for our services. In addition, these payors have instituted policies and procedures to substantially reduce or limit the use of inpatient services. All of our hospitals are certified as providers of Medicaid services. Medicaid programs are jointly funded by federal and state governments and are administered by states under an approved plan that provides hospital and other healthcare benefits to qualifying individuals who are unable to afford care. A number of states, however, are experiencing budget problems and have adopted or are considering legislation designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures or to provide universal coverage and additional care, including enrolling Medicaid recipients in managed care programs and imposing additional taxes on hospitals to help finance or expand states’ Medicaid systems. The ARRA includes increased federal funding for Medicaid. However, we are unable to predict at this time how this will impact states’ ability to provide Medicaid coverage in the future. It is possible that, despite Congress’ actions, budgetary pressures will force states to resort to some of the cost saving measures mentioned above. These efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. For example, one of our hospitals, Memorial Medical Center of Las Cruces, New Mexico (“MMC”), received approximately $35.6 million during 2009 under the New Mexico Sole Community Provider Program (the “SCPP”). While the funds made available to MMC (and other New Mexico hospitals that participate in the SCPP) are not tied directly to the cost of actual services provided, MMC is required to provide an annual report of its costs to Dona Ana County (the county primarily served by MMC). Once desired funding levels were established by Dona Ana County for 2009, the county submitted funds to the New Mexico Human Services Department (the “NMHSD”), which in turn were combined with funds sent by other New Mexico counties and then used by the NMHSD to request matching funds from the federal government. Once the federal matching dollars were made available to the state, the resulting sole community provider payment was made under the SCPP directly to MMC (and other hospitals participating in the SCPP) by the NMHSD. The payments made by the NMHSD to hospitals pursuant to the SCPP are based on formulas established with respect to each participating hospital. The SCPP was created in 1993 and has resulted in significant payments to MMC in prior years. Like many other states, there is a general concern in New Mexico that the SCPP cannot be sustained at current funding levels as a result of budget concerns and other factors. It seems likely, as a result, that the SCPP will soon be reconstituted. We are not able to predict what changes may be made to the SCPP, but any change in the SCPP is likely to reduce payments made to MMC. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS If we do not effectively attract, recruit and retain qualified physicians, nurses, medical technicians and other healthcare professionals, our ability to deliver healthcare services efficiently will be adversely affected. As a general matter, only physicians on our medical staffs may direct hospital admissions and the services ordered once a patient is admitted to a hospital. As a result, our success depends significantly on the efforts, abilities and experience of the physicians on the medical staffs of our hospitals — most of whom have no long-term contractual relationship with us — having an appropriate number of physicians on our hospitals’ medical staffs, the admissions practices of these physicians and the maintenance of good relations with these physicians. The primary method we use to add or expand medical services is the recruitment of new physicians into our communities. The success of our recruiting efforts will depend on several factors. In general, there is a shortage of specialty care physicians. We face intense competition in the recruitment and retention of specialists because of the difficulty in convincing these individuals of the benefits of practicing or remaining in practice in non-urban communities. If the non-urban communities in which our hospitals operate are not vibrant, or are not seen as attractive, then we could experience difficulty attracting and retaining physicians to practice in our communities. We may not be able to recruit all of the physicians we target. In addition, we may incur increased malpractice expense if the quality of physicians we recruit does not meet our expectations. Further, our ability to recruit physicians is closely regulated. For example, the types, amount and duration of assistance we can provide to recruited physicians are limited by the federal Stark law, federal and state anti-kickback statutes, and related regulations. For example, the Stark law requires, among other things, that recruitment assistance can only be provided to physicians who meet certain geographic and practice requirements, that the amount of assistance cannot be changed during the term, and that the recruitment payments cannot generally benefit physicians currently in practice in the community beyond recruitment costs actually incurred by them. In addition to these legal requirements, there is competition from other communities and facilities for these physicians, and this competition continues after the physician is practicing in one of our communities. We also employed more physicians during 2009 than in prior years. We believe that physician employment by acute care hospitals has become more common in recent periods and that our experience in employing physicians is consistent with industry trends. Employed physicians could present more direct risks to us than those presented by independent members of our hospitals’ medical staffs. For example, it is more likely that we could be found liable if an employed physician commits malpractice. As we employ more physicians, we also expect to incur increased operating losses, and increasing amounts of bad debt, associated with the practices of such physicians. In light of the competition for a limited number of physicians, some are able to command significant (although fair market value) salaries. The combined increased salary costs, operating losses and potential liabilities are significant and, if this trend continues, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Finally, we compete with other healthcare providers in recruiting and retaining qualified management and staff personnel responsible for the day-to-day operations of each of our hospitals, including nurses and other non-physician healthcare professionals. In some markets, the scarce availability of nurses and other medical support personnel presents a significant operating issue. This shortage may require us to enhance wages and benefits to recruit and retain nurses and other medical support personnel, recruit personnel from foreign countries, and hire more expensive temporary personnel. We also depend on the available labor pool of semi-skilled and unskilled employees in each of the markets in which we operate. Because a significant percentage of our revenue consists of fixed, prospective payments, our ability to pass along increased labor costs is constrained. Our failure to recruit and retain qualified management, nurses and other medical support personnel, or to control our labor costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS The loss of certain physicians can have a disproportionate impact on certain of our hospitals. Generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent a large share of our inpatient revenues and admissions. The loss of one or more of these physicians — even if temporary — could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the difficulty and cost associated with recruiting and retaining physicians. We cannot predict the effect that health care reform, if any, and other changes in government programs may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the fourth quarter of 2009, both houses of the U.S. Congress passed separate bills intended to reform the healthcare system. While neither of these bills has become law, such bills or similar proposals have been, and we expect will continue to be, a focus at the federal level. Among other things, these proposals intend to decrease the number of uninsured legal U.S. residents and reduce health care costs. Various mechanisms to fund health care reform legislation are being considered, including proposals that could reduce hospital reimbursement or otherwise adversely affect our revenues, and various mechanisms to control health care costs are being considered, including proposals that could impose new information technology requirements upon our hospitals or otherwise increase our operating costs. Several states are also considering health care reform measures. We cannot predict what form health care reform will take, or if significant health care reform in the near term will take place at all. While federal or state health care reform could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations, a decision by Congress not to enact significant health care reform in the near term could also have a negative impact on investor sentiment about companies in the health care industry and, therefore, adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. The focus on health care reform may also increase the likelihood of material changes to existing government health care programs. A significant portion of both our patient volumes and, as a result, our revenues is derived from government health care programs, principally Medicare and Medicaid. In recent years, legislative and regulatory changes have resulted in limitations on and, in some cases, reductions in levels of payments to health care providers for certain services under these government programs. Possible future changes in Medicare, Medicaid and other health care programs may reduce reimbursements to health care providers and insurers and may also increase our operating costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to increasingly stringent governmental regulation, and may be subjected to allegations that we have failed to comply with governmental regulations which could result in sanctions and even greater scrutiny that reduce our revenues and profitability. All participants in the healthcare industry are required to comply with many laws and regulations at the federal state and local government levels. These laws and regulations require that hospitals meet various requirements, including those relating to hospitals’ relationships with physicians and other referral sources, the adequacy and quality of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, billing and cost reports, payment for services and supplies, maintenance of adequate records, privacy, compliance with building codes and environmental protection, among other matters. The hospital industry has seen a number of ongoing investigations related to referrals, physician recruiting practices, cost reporting and billing practices, laboratory and home healthcare services and physician ownership and joint ventures involving hospitals. Federal and state government agencies have announced heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts. In addition, the OIG (which is responsible for investigating fraud and abuse activities in government programs) and the U.S. Department of Justice periodically establish enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. In January 2005, the OIG issued Supplemental Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals that focuses on hospital compliance risk areas. Some of the risk areas highlighted by the OIG include correct outpatient procedure coding, revising admission and discharge policies to reflect current CMS rules, submitting appropriate claims for supplemental payments such as pass-through costs and outlier payments and a general discussion of the fraud and abuse risks related to financial relationships with referral sources. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS Hospitals continue to be one of the primary focal areas of OIG investigations. The OIG reported savings and expected recoveries for federal healthcare programs of more than $21.0 billion for FFY 2009. The implementation of the RAC program is one example of this increased regulatory enforcement focus. The claims review strategies used by the RACs include review of high dollar claims, including inpatient hospital claims. During the three year RAC demonstration program, a large majority of the total amounts recovered by RACs came from hospitals. In public statements, governmental authorities have taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation was previously available. Some of these positions appear to be inconsistent with common practices within the industry but have not previously been challenged. Moreover, some government investigations that have in the past been conducted under the civil provisions of federal law are now being conducted as criminal investigations under the Medicare fraud and abuse laws. In a series of notices in 2007, CMS indicated its intent to require a group of 500 hospitals to submit a Disclosure of Financial Relationships Report to CMS. CMS subsequently reduced the number of hospitals that would be subject to the DFRR requirements to 400. Although final OMB approval of the DFRR is still pending, the deadline for public comment was January 20, 2009; therefore, it could be distributed at any time. If the DFRR is distributed, we expect that a number of our facilities may be included among those required to respond. CMS intends to use this data to monitor compliance with the Stark law, and CMS has indicated that it may share the information with other government agencies. Many of these agencies have not previously analyzed this information and have the authority to bring enforcement actions against us. Once a hospital receives this request, the hospital will have a limited amount of time to compile a significant amount of information relating to its financial relationships with physicians, including any ownership by physicians. The hospital may be subject to substantial penalties if it is unable to assemble and report this information within the required timeframe or if CMS or any other government agency determines that the submission is inaccurate or incomplete. The hospital may be the subject of investigations or enforcement actions if a government agency determines that any of the information indicates a potential violation of law. Any such investigation or enforcement action could materially adversely affect the results of our operations. These activities reflect the general trend of increasing governmental scrutiny of the financial relationships between hospitals and referring physicians under the fraud and abuse laws. The laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate our hospitals and our ability to participate in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Finally, we are subject to various federal, state and local statutes and ordinances regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. Our healthcare operations generate medical waste, such as pharmaceuticals, biological materials and disposable medical instruments that must be disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations. Our operations are also subject to various other environmental laws, rules and regulations. Environmental regulations also may apply when we renovate or refurbish hospitals, particularly older facilities. Other hospitals and outpatient facilities provide services similar to those which we offer. In addition, physicians provide services in their offices that could be provided in our hospitals. These factors increase the level of competition we face and may therefore adversely affect our revenues, profitability and market share. Competition among hospitals and other healthcare service providers, including outpatient facilities, has intensified in recent years. We compete with other hospitals, including larger tertiary care centers located in larger metropolitan areas, and with physicians who provide services in their offices which could otherwise be provided in our hospitals. Although the hospitals with which we compete may be a significant distance away from our facilities, patients in our markets may migrate on their own to, may be referred by local physicians to, or may be encouraged by their health plan to travel to these hospitals. Furthermore, some of the hospitals 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS with which we compete may offer more or different services than those available at our hospitals, may have more advanced equipment or a medical staff that is thought to be better qualified. Also, some of the hospitals that compete with our facilities are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or not-for-profit entities supported by endowments and charitable contributions. These hospitals, in most instances, are also exempt from paying sales, property and income taxes. We also face very significant and increasing competitions from services offered by physicians (including physicians on our medical staffs) in their offices and from other specialized care providers, including outpatient surgery, oncology, physical therapy and diagnostic centers (including many in which physicians may have an ownership interest). Some of our hospitals have and will seek to develop outpatient facilities where necessary to compete effectively. However, to the extent that other providers are successful in developing outpatient facilities or physicians are able to offer additional, advanced services in their offices, our market share for these services will likely decrease in the future. In 2005, CMS began making public performance data relating to ten quality measures that hospitals submit in connection with their Medicare reimbursement. Since that time, CMS has on several occasions increased the number of quality measures hospitals are required to report. If these measures become a primary factor in where patients choose to receive care, and if competing hospitals have better results than our hospitals on the measures, we would expect that our patient volumes could decline. In the future, other trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volume. Our revenues are especially concentrated in a small number of states which will make us particularly sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in those states. Our revenues are particularly sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in states in which we generate the majority of our revenues including Kentucky, Virginia, New Mexico, West Virginia, Tennessee, Alabama, Louisiana, Arizona and Texas. The following table contains our revenues and revenues as a percentage of our total revenues by state for each of these states for the years presented (dollars in millions): Revenue Concentration by State Amount % of Total Revenues 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 Kentucky $ 485.5 $ 465.0 $ 435.4 16.4 % 17.2 % 17.0 % Virginia 384.1 381.6 369.7 13.0 14.1 14.4 New Mexico 288.0 245.7 225.0 9.7 9.1 8.8 West Virginia 250.7 243.4 229.7 8.5 9.0 8.9 Tennessee 225.5 223.2 209.8 7.6 8.3 8.2 Alabama 209.6 203.2 191.0 7.1 7.5 7.4 Louisiana 204.2 194.6 189.4 6.9 7.2 7.4 Arizona 195.2 173.8 167.1 6.6 6.4 6.5 Texas 139.9 142.3 135.3 4.7 5.3 5.3 Accordingly, any change in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in the above-mentioned states could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. Medicaid changes in these states could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If our access to licensed information systems is interrupted or restricted, or if we are not able to integrate changes to our existing information systems or information systems of acquired hospitals, our operations could suffer. Our business depends significantly on effective information systems to process clinical and financial information. Information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology. We rely heavily on HCA-Information Technology and Services, Inc., (“HCA-IT”), 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS for information systems. HCA-IT provides us with financial, clinical, patient accounting and network information services. HCA’s primary business is to own and operate hospitals, not to provide information systems. We do not control HCA-IT’s systems, and if these systems fail or are interrupted, if our access to these systems is limited in the future or if HCA-IT develops systems more appropriate for the urban healthcare market and not suited for our hospitals, our operations could suffer. Our contract with HCA-IT, as amended, expires on December 31, 2017 (including a wind-down period) unless extended by the parties. System conversions are costly, time consuming and disruptive for physicians and employees. Should we decide or be required to convert away from systems provided by HCA-IT, such implementation would be very costly and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, as new information systems are developed in the future, we will need to integrate them into our existing systems. Evolving industry and regulatory standards, such as HIPAA regulations, may require changes to our information systems in the future. We may not be able to integrate new systems or changes required to our existing systems or systems of acquired hospitals in the future effectively or on a cost-efficient basis. An element of our long-term business strategy is growth through the acquisition of additional acute care hospitals. Our acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, various information systems that are used by the hospitals we acquire. If we experience difficulties with the integration of the information systems of acquired hospitals, we could suffer, among other things, operational disruptions and increases in administrative expenses. We have substantial indebtedness and we may incur significant amounts of additional indebtedness in the future which could affect our ability to finance operations and capital expenditures, pursue desirable business opportunities or successfully operate our business in the future. As of December 31, 2009, our consolidated debt was approximately $1,502.2 million. We also have the ability to incur significant amounts of additional indebtedness, subject to the conditions imposed by the terms of our credit agreements and the agreements or indentures governing any additional indebtedness that we incur in the future. Our credit facility contains an uncommitted “accordion” feature that permits us to borrow at a later date additional aggregate principal amounts of up to $650.0 million under the term A and the term B loan components and up to $412.5 million under the revolving loan component, subject to the receipt of commitments and the satisfaction of other conditions. We are currently working on maturity date extensions, potential increases in available capacity and additional flexibility in terms for our Credit Agreement. Our ability to repay or refinance our indebtedness will depend upon our ability to amend and extend our term B loan and revolving loan components and our ability to monetize our interests in our hospital assets and our operating performance, which may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that our future operating cash flow, together with available financing arrangements, will be sufficient to fund our operating requirements, our leverage and debt service obligations could have important consequences, including the following: • Under our credit facility, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and tests. Failure to comply with these obligations may cause an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could require us to repay substantial indebtedness immediately. Moreover, if debt repayment is accelerated, we will be subject to higher interest rates on our debt obligations as a result of these covenants and our credit ratings may be adversely impacted. • We may be vulnerable in the event of downturns and adverse changes in the general economy or our industry. Specific examples of industry changes that could have an adverse impact on our cash flow include the implementation by the government of further limitations on reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid. • We may have difficulty obtaining additional financing at favorable interest rates to meet our requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS • We will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of funds available for operations, capital expenditures and future acquisitions. • Any borrowings we incur at variable interest rates expose us to increases in interest rates generally. • A breach of any of the restrictions or covenants in our debt agreements could cause a cross-default under other debt agreements. We may be required to pay our indebtedness immediately if we default on any of the numerous financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the debt agreements. It is not certain whether we will have, or will be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. If any senior debt is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness and our other indebtedness. • In the event of a default, we may be forced to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking additional equity capital. There can be no assurances that any of these strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that sufficient funds could be obtained to make these accelerated payments. We may be subject to liabilities because of malpractice and related legal claims brought against our hospitals. If we become subject to these claims, we could be required to pay significant damages, which may not be covered by insurance. We may be subject to medical malpractice lawsuits and other legal actions arising out of the operations of our owned and leased hospitals. These actions may involve large claims and significant defense costs. In an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. Amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. We maintain professional and general liability insurance with unrelated commercial insurance carriers to provide for losses in excess of our SIR amount. As a result, one or more successful claims against us that are within our SIR amounts could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or liquidity. Also, some of these claims could exceed the scope of the coverage in effect, or coverage of particular claims could be denied. In addition, we operate a wholly-owned captive insurance company under the name Point of Life Indemnity, Ltd., which, issues malpractice insurance policies to our employed physicians and certain voluntary attending physicians. We experienced unfavorable claims development results recently, which are reflected in our professional and general liability costs. Insurance coverage in the future may not continue to be available at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of insurance with acceptable SIR level amounts. One or more of our insurance carriers may become insolvent and unable to fulfill its obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us when that obligation becomes due. In addition, physicians using our hospitals may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms. Our revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control. Our revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians’ clinical decisions and availability, payor programs shifting to a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, including the effects of extreme low temperatures, hurricanes and tornados, earthquakes, current local economic and demographic changes, the intensity and timing of yearly flu outbreaks. In addition, technological developments and pharmaceutical improvements may reduce the demand for healthcare services or the profitability of the services we offer. If our fair value declines, a material non-cash charge to earnings from impairment of our goodwill could result. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $1,523.0 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. We expect to recover the carrying value of this goodwill through our future cash flows. We evaluate annually, based on our fair value, whether the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired. If the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired, we may incur a material non-cash charge to earnings. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may have difficulty acquiring hospitals on favorable terms and, because of regulatory scrutiny, acquiring not-for-profit entities. One element of our business strategy is expansion through the acquisition of acute care hospitals in non-urban markets. We face significant competition to acquire other attractive non-urban hospitals, and we may not find suitable acquisitions on favorable terms. Our primary competitors for acquisitions have included for-profit and tax-exempt hospitals and hospital systems and privately capitalized start-up companies. Buyers with a strategic desire for any particular hospital — for example, a hospital located near existing hospitals or those who will realize economic synergies — have demonstrated an ability and willingness to pay premium prices for hospitals. Strategic buyers, as a result, can present a competitive barrier to our acquisition efforts. Even if we are able to identify an attractive candidate, we may not be able to obtain financing, if necessary, for any acquisitions or joint ventures that we might make or may be required to borrow at higher rates and on less favorable terms. We may incur or assume additional indebtedness as a result of acquisitions. Our failure to acquire non-urban hospitals consistent with our growth plans could prevent us from increasing our revenues. The cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital’s results of operations, allocation of purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limitations on rate increases. In the past, we have occasionally experienced temporary delays in improving the operating margins or effectively integrating the operations of our acquired hospitals. In the future, if we are unable to improve the operating margins of acquired hospitals, operate them profitably or effectively integrate their operations, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy. In recent years, the legislatures and attorneys general of several states have become more interested in sales of hospitals by tax-exempt entities. This heightened scrutiny may increase the cost and difficulty, or prevent the completion, of transactions with tax-exempt organizations in the future. We may encounter numerous business risks in acquiring additional hospitals and may have difficulty operating and integrating those hospitals. As a result, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy. We may be unable to timely and effectively integrate any hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. We may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. Integrating an acquired hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. In addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are used by acquired hospitals. We will rely heavily on HCA-IT for information systems integration as part of a contractual arrangement for information technology services. We may not be successful in causing HCA-IT to convert our newly acquired hospitals’ information systems in a timely manner. In addition, businesses we have acquired, or businesses we may acquire may have unknown or contingent liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, worker’s compensation liabilities, previous tax liabilities and unacceptable business practices. Although we have historically obtained, and we intend to continue to obtain, contractual indemnification from sellers covering these matters, any indemnification obtained from sellers may be insufficient to cover material claims or liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets may be adversely affected. Technological advances, including with respect to computer-assisted tomography scanner (CTs), magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs) and positron emission tomography scanner (PETs) equipment, continue to evolve. In addition, the manufacturers of such equipment often provide incentives to try to increase their sales, including providing favorable financing to higher credit risk organizations. In an effort to compete, we must 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade our equipment as a result of technological improvements. We believe that the direction of the patient flow correlates directly to the level and intensity of such diagnostic equipment. We may be subjected to actions brought by the government under anti-fraud and abuse provisions or by individuals on the government’s behalf under the False Claims Act’s “qui tam” or whistleblower provisions. We are subject to the anti-kickback statute, which prohibits some business practices and relationships related to items or services reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. For example, the anti-kickback statute prohibits healthcare service providers from paying or receiving remuneration to induce or arrange for the referral of patients or purchase of items or services covered by a federal or state healthcare program. If regulatory authorities determine that any of our hospitals’ arrangements violate the anti-kickback statute, we could be subject to liabilities under the Social Security Act, including: • criminal penalties; • civil monetary penalties; and/or • exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs, any of which could impair our ability to operate one or more of our hospitals profitably. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. Defendants found to be liable under the False Claims Act may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties ranging between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. Liability often arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The False Claims Act defines the term “knowingly” broadly. Although simple negligence will not give rise to liability under the False Claims Act, submitting a claim with reckless disregard for its truth or falsity constitutes a “knowing” submission under the False Claims Act and, therefore, will give rise to liability. In some cases, whistleblowers or the federal government have taken the position that providers who allegedly have violated other statutes, such as the anti-kickback statute and the Stark law, have thereby submitted false claims under the False Claims Act. In addition, a number of states have adopted their own false claims provisions as well as their own whistleblower provisions whereby a private party may file a civil lawsuit in state court. We are required to provide information to our employees and certain contractors about state and federal false claims laws and whistleblower provisions and protections. Although we intend and will endeavor to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable federal and state fraud and abuse laws, many of these laws are broadly worded and may be interpreted or applied in ways that cannot be predicted. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our arrangements or business practices will not be subject to government scrutiny or be found to be in compliance with applicable fraud and abuse laws. Certificate of need laws and regulations regarding licenses, ownership and operation may impair our future expansion in some states. Some states require prior approval for the purchase, construction and expansion of healthcare facilities, based on the state’s determination of need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. Ten states in which we operate hospitals require a certificate of need for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in bed capacity or services, and for certain other planned activities. We may not be able to obtain certificates of need required for expansion activities in the future. In addition, all of the states in which we operate facilities require hospitals and most healthcare providers to maintain one or more licenses. If we fail to obtain any required certificate of need or license, our ability to operate or expand operations in those states could be impaired. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS In states without certificate of need laws, competing providers of healthcare services are able to expand and construct facilities without the need for significant regulatory approval. In the seven states in which we operate that do not require certificates of need for the purchase, construction and expansion of healthcare facilities or services, competing healthcare providers face low barriers to entry and expansion. If competing providers of healthcare services are able to purchase, construct or expand healthcare facilities without the need for regulatory approval, we may face decreased market share and revenues in those markets. Different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the SEC. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile; any significant decline may result in litigation. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. This may result in stockholder lawsuits, which could divert management’s time away from operations and could result in higher legal fees and proxy costs. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to the results or our operations and to a number of events and factors, including: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results, particularly if they differ from investors’ expectations; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in government regulations including those relating to reimbursement and operational policies and procedures; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; • changes in overall economic factors in our markets; • news reports relating to trends or events in our markets; and • issues associated with integration of the hospitals that we acquire. Broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. As a result of the above factors, we could be subjected to potential stockholder lawsuits. Such lawsuits are time consuming and expensive. Among other things, such lawsuits divert management’s time and attention from operations. Such lawsuits also force us to incur substantial legal fees and proxy costs in defending our position. 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved SEC staff comments. 