Risk Factors We have substantial indebtedness and we may incur significant amounts of additional indebtedness in the future which could affect our ability to finance operations and capital expenditures, pursue desirable business opportunities or successfully operate our business in the future. We have substantial indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, our consolidated debt was approximately $1,670.3 million. We also have the ability to incur significant amounts of additional indebtedness, subject to the conditions imposed by the terms of our credit agreements and the agreements or indentures governing any additional indebtedness that we incur in the future. Our credit facility contains an uncommitted “accordion” feature that permits us to borrow at a later date additional aggregate principal amounts of up to $400.0 million under the term loan component, $200.0 million of which is available as of December 31, 2006, and up to $100.0 million under the revolving loan component, subject to the receipt of commitments and the satisfaction of other conditions. Our ability to repay or refinance our indebtedness will depend upon our future ability to monetize our interests in our hospital assets and our operating performance, which may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory, business and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that our future operating cash flow, together with available financing arrangements, will be sufficient to fund our operating requirements, our leverage and debt service obligations could have important consequences, including the following: • Under our credit facility, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and tests. Failure to comply with these obligations may cause an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could require us to repay substantial indebtedness immediately. Moreover, if debt repayment is accelerated, we will be subject to higher interest rates on our debt obligations as a result of these covenants and our credit ratings may be adversely impacted. • We may be vulnerable in the event of downturns and adverse changes in our hospitals’ businesses, in our industry, or in the economy generally, such as the implementation by the government of further limitations on reimbursement under Medicare and Medicaid, because of our need for increased cash flow. • We may have difficulty obtaining additional financing at favorable interest rates to meet our requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes. • We will be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, which will reduce the amount of funds available for operations, capital expenditures and future acquisitions. • Any borrowings we incur at variable interest rates expose us to increases in interest rates generally. • A breach of any of the restrictions or covenants in our debt agreements could cause a cross-default under other debt agreements. We may be required to pay our indebtedness immediately if we default on any of the numerous financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the debt agreements. It is not certain whether we will have, or will be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated 39 Table of Contents payments. If any senior debt is accelerated, our assets may not be sufficient to repay such indebtedness and our other indebtedness. • In the event of a default, we may be forced to pursue one or more alternative strategies, such as restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital expenditures or seeking additional equity capital. There can be no assurances that any of these strategies could be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all, or that sufficient funds could be obtained to make these accelerated payments. We may continue to see the growth of uninsured and “patient due” accounts; deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. The primary collection risks associated with our accounts receivable relate to the uninsured patient accounts and patient accounts for which the primary insurance carrier has paid the amounts covered by the applicable agreement, but patient responsibility amounts (deductibles and co-payments) remain outstanding. The provision for doubtful accounts relates primarily to amounts due directly from patients. The amount of our provision for doubtful accounts is based on our assessments of historical collection trends, business and economic conditions, trends in federal and state governmental and private employer health coverage and other collection indicators. A continuation in trends that results in increasing the proportion of accounts receivable being comprised of uninsured accounts and deterioration in the collectibility of these accounts could adversely affect our collections of accounts receivable, cash flows and results of operations. We are exposed to interest rate changes. We are exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding debt of $1,670.3 million, 85.7% or $1,431.9 million of which was subject to variable rates of interest. We entered into an interest rate swap agreement effective November 30, 2006 with a maturity date of May 30, 2011, to manage our exposure to these fluctuations. Our interest rate swap decreases our variable rate debt as a percentage of our outstanding debt from 85.7% to 31.8% as of December 31, 2006. The interest rate swap converts a portion of our indebtedness to a fixed rate with a decreasing notional amount starting at $900.0 million at an annual fixed rate of 5.585%. The notional amount of the swap agreement represents a balance used to calculate the exchange of cash flows and is not an asset or liability. Any market risk or opportunity associated with this swap agreement is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. Our credit risk related to this agreement is considered low because the swap agreement is with a creditworthy financial institution. See Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Market Risk.” If our access to HCA-Information Technology and Services, Inc.’s information systems is restricted or we are not able to integrate changes to our existing information systems or information systems of acquired hospitals, our operations could suffer. Our business depends significantly on effective information systems to process clinical and financial information. Information systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop new systems in order to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology. We rely heavily on HCA-Information Technology and Services, Inc., or HCA-IT, for information systems. Under a contract with a term that will expire on December 31, 2009, HCA-IT provides us with financial, clinical, patient accounting and network information services. We do not control HCA-IT’s systems, and if these systems fail or are interrupted, if our access to these systems is limited in the future or if HCA-IT develops systems more appropriate for the urban healthcare market and not suited for our hospitals, our operations could suffer. HCA has recently been taken private in a leveraged buyout. We do not know of HCA’s future plans for the information systems and its support of such systems. We also do not know if HCA-IT is committed to extend our contract beyond 2009. System conversions are costly, time consuming and disruptive for physicians 40 Table of Contents and employees. Should we decide to convert away from systems provided by HCA-IT, such implementation could be costly and materially affect our results of operations. In addition, as new information systems are developed in the future, we will need to integrate them into our existing systems. Evolving industry and regulatory standards, such as HIPAA regulations, may require changes to our information systems in the future. We may not be able to integrate new systems or changes required to our existing systems or systems of acquired hospitals in the future effectively or on a cost-efficient basis. A key element of our long-term business strategy is growth through the acquisition of additional acute care hospitals. Our acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, various information systems that are used by the hospitals we acquire. If we experience difficulties with the integration of the information systems of acquired hospitals, we could suffer, among other things, operational disruptions and increases in administrative expenses. If our fair value declines, a material non-cash charge to earnings from impairment of our goodwill could result. We recorded a significant portion of the Province purchase price as goodwill. We have also recorded as goodwill a portion of the purchase price for many of our hospital acquisitions. At December 31, 2006, we had approximately $1,581.3 million of goodwill on our consolidated balance sheet. We expect to recover the carrying value of this goodwill through our future cash flows. We evaluate annually, based on our fair value, whether the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired. If the carrying value of our goodwill is impaired, we may incur a material non-cash charge to earnings. We may have difficulty acquiring hospitals on favorable terms and, because of regulatory scrutiny, acquiring not-for-profit entities. One element of our business strategy is expansion through the acquisition of acute care hospitals in non-urban markets. We face significant competition to acquire other attractive non-urban hospitals, and we may not find suitable acquisitions on favorable terms. Our principal competitors for acquisitions have included Health Management Associates, Inc., Community Health Systems, Inc., Triad Hospitals, Inc. and newly capitalized start-up companies. We may not be able to obtain financing, if necessary, for any acquisitions or joint ventures that we might make or may be required to borrow at higher rates and on less favorable terms. We may incur or assume additional indebtedness as a result of acquisitions. Our failure to acquire non-urban hospitals consistent with our growth plans could prevent us from increasing our revenues. The cost of an acquisition could result in a dilutive effect on our results of operations, depending on various factors, including the amount paid for the acquisition, the acquired hospital’s results of operations, allocation of purchase price, effects of subsequent legislation and limitations on rate increases. In the past, we have occasionally experienced temporary delays in improving the operating margins or effectively integrating the operations of our acquired hospitals. In the future, if we are unable to improve the operating margins of acquired hospitals, operate them profitably or effectively integrate their operations, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy. In recent years, the legislatures and attorneys general of several states have become more interested in sales of hospitals by not-for-profit entities. This heightened scrutiny may increase the cost and difficulty, or prevent the completion, of transactions with not-for-profit organizations in the future. We may encounter numerous business risks in acquiring additional hospitals and may have difficulty operating and integrating those hospitals. As a result, we may be unable to achieve our growth strategy. We may be unable to timely and effectively integrate the hospitals that we acquire with our ongoing operations. We may experience delays in implementing operating procedures and systems in newly acquired hospitals. Integrating a new hospital could be expensive and time consuming and could disrupt our ongoing business, negatively affect cash flow and distract management and other key personnel. In addition, acquisition activity requires transitions from, and the integration of, operations and, usually, information systems that are 41 Table of Contents used by acquired hospitals. We will rely heavily on HCA for information systems integration as part of a contractual arrangement for information technology services. We may not be successful in causing HCA to convert our newly acquired hospitals’ information systems, including those used by the Province hospitals, in a timely manner. In addition, we also may acquire businesses, including the Province hospitals, with unknown or contingent liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses, including liabilities for failure to comply with healthcare laws and regulations, medical and general professional liabilities, worker’s compensation liabilities, previous tax liabilities and unacceptable business practices. Although we have historically obtained, and we intend to continue to obtain, contractual indemnification from sellers covering these matters, we did not obtain indemnification in the Province business combination and any indemnification obtained from other sellers may be insufficient to cover material claims or liabilities for past activities of acquired businesses. If we do not effectively recruit and retain qualified physicians, nurses, medical technicians and other healthcare professionals, our ability to deliver healthcare services efficiently will be adversely affected. Physicians generally direct our hospital admissions and services. Our success, in part, depends on the number and quality of physicians on our hospitals’ medical staffs, the admissions practices of these physicians and the maintenance of good relations with these physicians. Only a limited number of physicians practice in the non-urban communities where our hospitals are located. The primary method we employ to add or expand medical services is the recruitment of new physicians into our communities. The success of our recruiting efforts will depend on several factors. In general, there is a shortage of specialty care physicians. We face intense competition in the recruitment and retention of specialists because of the difficulty in convincing these individuals of the benefits of practicing or remaining in practice in non-urban communities. If the growth rate slows in the non-urban communities where our hospitals operate, then we could experience difficulty attracting and retaining physicians to practice in our communities. Generally, the top ten attending physicians within each of our facilities represent approximately 69% and 67% of our inpatient revenues and admissions, respectively. The loss of one or more of these physicians could cause a material reduction in our revenues, which could take significant time to replace given the challenges we face in recruiting and retaining physicians. We may not be able to recruit all of the physicians we have targeted. In addition, we may incur increased malpractice expense if the quality of such physicians does not meet our expectations. There is generally a shortage of nurses and certain medical technicians in the healthcare field. Our hospitals may be forced to hire contract personnel, which tend to be more expensive than full-time employed staff if they are unable to recruit and retain full-time employees. The shortage of nurses and medical technicians may affect our ability to deliver healthcare services efficiently. Our revenues may decline if federal or state programs reduce our Medicare or Medicaid payments or if managed care companies reduce reimbursement amounts. In addition, the financial condition of purchasers of healthcare services and healthcare cost containment initiatives may limit our revenues and profitability. In 2006, we derived 44.8% of our revenues from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In recent years, federal and state governments have made significant changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. A number of states have incurred budget deficits and adopted legislation designed to reduce their Medicaid expenditures and to reduce Medicaid enrollees. Employers have also passed more healthcare benefit costs on to employees to reduce the employers’ health insurance expenses. This trend has caused the self-pay/deductible component of healthcare services to become more common. This payor shifting increases collection costs and reduces overall collections. During the past several years, major purchasers of healthcare, such as federal and state governments, insurance companies and employers, have undertaken initiatives to revise payment methodologies and monitor healthcare costs. As part of their efforts to contain healthcare costs, purchasers increasingly are demanding discounted fee structures or the assumption by healthcare providers of all or a portion of the financial risk 42 Table of Contents through prepaid capitation arrangements, often in exchange for exclusive or preferred participation in their benefit plans. We expect efforts to impose greater discounts and more stringent cost controls by government and other payors to continue, thereby reducing the payments we receive for our services. In addition, these payors have instituted policies and procedures to substantially reduce or limit the use of inpatient services. Our revenues are especially concentrated in a small number of states which will make us particularly sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in those states. Our revenues are particularly sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in Kentucky, Virginia, Louisiana, New Mexico, Tennessee, Alabama, West Virginia and Texas. The following table (which includes the revenues of the Province hospitals since April 15, 2005, the date of the Province business combination) contains our revenues and revenues as a percentage of our total revenues by state for each of these states for the years presented (dollars in millions): Revenue Concentration by State Amount % of Total Revenues 2005 2006 2005 2006 Kentucky $ 387.0 $ 404.0 21.0 % 16.6 % Virginia 189.5 341.9 10.3 14.0 Louisiana 171.1 211.3 9.3 8.7 New Mexico 136.7 210.9 7.4 8.6 Tennessee 191.7 199.6 10.4 8.2 Alabama 162.5 186.5 8.8 7.6 West Virginia 78.3 151.7 4.3 6.2 Texas 95.8 136.3 5.2 5.6 $ 1,412.6 $ 1,842.2 76.7 % 75.5 % Accordingly, any change in the current demographic, economic, competitive or regulatory conditions in the above-mentioned states could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. Other hospitals and outpatient facilities provide services similar to those which we offer. In addition, physicians provide services in their offices that could be provided in our hospitals. These factors may increase the level of competition we face and may therefore adversely affect our revenues, profitability and market share. Competition among hospitals and other healthcare service providers, including outpatient facilities, has intensified in recent years, and we compete with other hospitals, including larger tertiary care centers located in larger metropolitan areas, and with physicians who provide services in their offices which would otherwise be provided in our hospitals. Although the hospitals which compete with us may be a significant distance away from our facilities, patients in our markets may migrate on their own to, may be referred by local physicians to, or may be encouraged by their health plan to travel to these hospitals. Furthermore, some of the hospitals which compete with us may use equipment and services more specialized than those available at our hospitals. Also, some of the hospitals that compete with our facilities are owned by tax-supported governmental agencies or not-for-profit entities supported by endowments and charitable contributions. These hospitals, in most instances, are also exempt from paying sales, property and income taxes. In 2005, CMS began making public performance data relating to ten quality measures that hospitals submit in connection with their Medicare reimbursement. If any of our hospitals should achieve poor results (or results that are lower than our competitors) on these ten quality criteria, patient volumes could decline. In the future, other trends toward clinical transparency may have an unanticipated impact on our competitive position and patient volume. 43 Table of Contents We also face increasing competition from other specialized care providers, including outpatient surgery, oncology, physical therapy and diagnostic centers (including many in which physicians may have an ownership interest), as well as competing services rendered in physician offices. Some of our hospitals may develop outpatient facilities where necessary to compete effectively. However, to the extent that other providers are successful in developing outpatient facilities, our market share for these services will likely decrease in the future. Moreover, many of our current hospitals attempt to attract patients from surrounding counties and communities, including communities in which a competing facility exists. However, if our competitors are able to make capital improvements and expand services at their facilities, we may be unable to attract patients away from these facilities in the future. If we do not continually enhance our hospitals with the most recent technological advances in diagnostic and surgical equipment, our ability to maintain and expand our markets will be adversely affected. Technological advances, potentially with respect to computer-assisted tomography scanner (CTs), magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs) and positron emission tomography scanner (PETs) equipment continue to evolve. In addition, the manufacturers of such equipment often provide incentives to try to increase their sales, including providing favorable financing to higher credit risk organizations. In an effort to compete, we must continually assess our equipment needs and upgrade our equipment as a result of technological improvements. Such equipment costs often range from $0.8 million to $4.5 million each, exclusive of any related construction costs. Physicians generally direct the majority of hospital admissions and services. In addition, competition among hospitals and service providers including outpatient facilities and services performed in physician offices for patients has intensified in recent years. We compete with other hospitals including larger tertiary care centers located in metropolitan areas. We believe that the direction of the patient flow correlates directly to the level and intensity of such diagnostic equipment. We are subject to governmental regulation, and may be subjected to allegations that we have failed to comply with governmental regulations which could result in sanctions that reduce our revenues and profitability. All participants in the healthcare industry are required to comply with many laws and regulations at the federal, state and local government levels. These laws and regulations require that hospitals meet various requirements, including those relating to the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel, operating policies and procedures, billing and cost reports, payment for services and supplies, maintenance of adequate records, privacy, compliance with building codes and environmental protection. If we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate our hospitals and our ability to participate in the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs. Significant media and public attention recently has focused on the hospital industry as a result of ongoing investigations related to referrals, physician recruiting practices, cost reporting and billing practices, laboratory and home healthcare services and physician ownership and joint ventures involving hospitals. Federal and state government agencies have announced heightened and coordinated civil and criminal enforcement efforts. In addition, the OIG (which is responsible for investigating fraud and abuse activities in government programs) and the U.S. Department of Justice periodically establish enforcement initiatives that focus on specific billing practices or other suspected areas of abuse. In January 2005, the OIG issued Supplemental Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals that focuses on hospital compliance risk areas. Some of the risk areas highlighted by the OIG include correct outpatient procedure coding, revising admission and discharge policies to reflect current CMS rules, submitting appropriate claims for supplemental payments such as pass-through costs and outlier payments and a general discussion of the fraud and abuse risks related to financial relationships with referral sources. In public statements, governmental authorities have taken positions on issues for which little official interpretation was previously available. Some of these positions appear to be inconsistent with common 44 Table of Contents practices within the industry but have not previously been challenged. Moreover, some government investigations that have in the past been conducted under the civil provisions of federal law are now being conducted as criminal investigations under the Medicare fraud and abuse laws. The laws and regulations with which we must comply are complex and subject to change. In the future, different interpretations or enforcement of these laws and regulations could subject our practices to allegations of impropriety or illegality or could require us to make changes in our facilities, equipment, personnel, services, capital expenditure programs and operating expenses. Finally, we are subject to various federal, state and local statutes and ordinances regulating the discharge of materials into the environment. Our healthcare operations generate medical waste, such as pharmaceuticals, biological materials and disposable medical instruments that must be disposed of in compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws, rules and regulations. Our operations are also subject to various other environmental laws, rules and regulations. Environmental regulations also may apply when we renovate or refurbish hospitals, particularly older facilities. We may be subjected to actions brought by the government under anti-fraud and abuse provisions or by individuals on the government’s behalf under the False Claims Act’s “qui tam” or whistleblower provisions. Companies in the healthcare industry are subject to Medicare and Medicaid anti-fraud and abuse provisions, known as the “anti-kickback statute.” As a company in the healthcare industry, we are subject to the anti-kickback statute, which prohibits some business practices and relationships related to items or services reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs. For example, the anti-kickback statute prohibits healthcare service providers from paying or receiving remuneration to induce or arrange for the referral of patients or purchase of items or services covered by a federal or state healthcare program. If regulatory authorities determine that any of our hospitals’ arrangements violate the anti-kickback statute, we could be subject to liabilities under the Social Security Act, including: • criminal penalties; • civil monetary penalties; and/or • exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other federal healthcare programs, any of which could impair our ability to operate one or more of our hospitals profitably. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the federal government. Defendants found to be liable under the False Claims Act may be required to pay three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus mandatory civil penalties ranging between $5,500 and $11,000 for each separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. Liability often arises when an entity knowingly submits a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The False Claims Act defines the term “knowingly” broadly. Although simple negligence will not give rise to liability under the False Claims Act, submitting a claim with reckless disregard for its truth or falsity constitutes a “knowing” submission under the False Claims Act and, therefore, will give rise to liability. In some cases, whistleblowers or the federal government have taken the position that providers who allegedly have violated other statutes, such as the anti-kickback statute and the Stark Law, have thereby submitted false claims under the False Claims Act. In addition, a number of states have adopted their own false claims provisions as well as their own whistleblower provisions whereby a private party may file a civil lawsuit in state court. Although we intend and will endeavor to conduct our business in compliance with all applicable federal and state fraud and abuse laws, many of these laws are broadly worded and may be interpreted or applied in ways that cannot be predicted. Therefore, we cannot assure you that our arrangements or business practices will not be subject to government scrutiny or be found to be in compliance with applicable fraud and abuse laws. 45 Table of Contents We may be subject to liabilities because of malpractice and related legal claims brought against our hospitals. If we become subject to these claims, we could be required to pay significant damages, which may not be covered by insurance. We may be subject to medical malpractice lawsuits and other legal actions arising out of the operations of our owned and leased hospitals. These actions may involve large claims and significant defense costs. In an effort to resolve one or more of these matters, we may choose to negotiate a settlement. Amounts we pay to settle any of these matters may be material. To mitigate a portion of this risk, we maintain professional malpractice liability and general liability insurance coverage for these potential claims in amounts above our self-insured retention level that we believe to be appropriate for our operations. However, some of these claims could exceed the scope of the coverage in effect, or coverage of particular claims could be denied. It is possible that successful claims against us that are within the self-insured retention level amounts, when considered in the aggregate, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition or liquidity. Furthermore, insurance coverage in the future may not continue to be available at a cost allowing us to maintain adequate levels of insurance with acceptable self-insured retention level amounts. Also, one or more of our insurance carriers may become insolvent and unable to fulfill its obligation to defend, pay or reimburse us when that obligation becomes due. In addition, physicians using our hospitals may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms. Certificate of need laws and regulations regarding licenses, ownership and operation may impair our future expansion in some states. Some states require prior approval for the purchase, construction and expansion of healthcare facilities, based on the state’s determination of need for additional or expanded healthcare facilities or services. Nine states in which we currently operate hospitals require a certificate of need for capital expenditures exceeding a prescribed amount, changes in bed capacity or services, and for certain other planned activities. We may not be able to obtain certificates of need required for expansion activities in the future. In addition, all of the states in which we operate facilities require hospitals and most healthcare providers to maintain one or more licenses. If we fail to obtain any required certificate of need or license, our ability to operate or expand operations in those states could be impaired. In states without certificate of need laws, competing providers of healthcare services are able to expand and construct facilities without the need for significant regulatory approval. In the ten states in which we operate that do not require certificates of need for the purchase, construction and expansion of healthcare facilities or services, competing healthcare providers face low barriers to entry and expansion. If competing providers of healthcare services are able to purchase, construct or expand healthcare facilities without the need for regulatory approval, we may face decreased market share and revenues in those markets. We are subject to significant corporate regulation as a public company and failure to comply with all applicable regulations could subject us to liability or negatively affect our stock price. As a publicly traded company, we are subject to a significant body of regulation, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we have developed and instituted a corporate compliance program based on what we believe are the current best practices in corporate governance and continue to update this program in response to newly implemented or changing regulatory requirements, we cannot provide assurance that we are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable corporate regulations. For example, we cannot provide assurance that in the future our management will not find a material weakness in connection with its annual review of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also cannot provide assurance that we could correct any such weakness to allow our management to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year in time to enable our independent registered public accounting firm to state that such assessment will have been fairly stated in our Annual Report on Form 10-K or state that we have maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year. Compliance with these regulations, and any changes in our internal control over financial reporting in response to our internal evaluations may be expensive and time-consuming 46 Table of Contents and may negatively impact our results of operations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions, fines or other sanctions or litigation. If we must disclose any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, our stock price could decline. Our revenues and volume trends may be adversely affected by certain factors over which we have no control relevant to the markets in which we have hospitals, including weather conditions. Our revenues and volume trends are dependent on many factors, including physicians’ clinical decisions and availability, payor programs shifting to a more outpatient-based environment, whether or not certain services are offered, seasonal and severe weather conditions, including the effects of extreme low temperatures, hurricanes and tornados, earthquakes, current local economic and demographic changes, the intensity and timing of yearly flu outbreaks and the judgment of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control on the strains of flu that may circulate in the United States. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and volume trends, and none of these factors will be within the control of our management. Different interpretations of accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Generally accepted accounting principles are complex, continually evolving and may be subject to varied interpretation by us, our independent registered public accounting firm and the SEC. Such varied interpretations could result from differing views related to specific facts and circumstances. Differences in interpretation of generally accepted accounting principles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile; any significant decline may result in litigation. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. This may result in stockholder lawsuits, which could divert management’s time away from operations and could result in higher legal fees and proxy costs. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, including: • issues associated with integration of the hospitals that we acquire; • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in operating results, particularly if they differ from investors’ expectations; • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in government regulations as they relate to reimbursement and operational policies and procedures; • the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable; • changes in overall economic factors in our markets; and • news reports relating to trends or events in our markets. Broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. As a result of the above factors, we could be subjected to potential activist stockholder lawsuits. Such lawsuits are time consuming and expensive. Among other things, such lawsuits divert management’s time and attention from operations and can also cause distractions among employee-stockholders, who are more long-term focused. Such lawsuits also force us to incur substantial legal fees and proxy costs in defending our position. 47 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. We have no unresolved SEC staff comments. 