ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Our future growth is dependent upon consumers’ willingness to purchase and use electric vehicles. Our growth is highly dependent upon the purchase and use by consumers of, and we are subject to an elevated risk of any reduced demand for, alternative fuel vehicles in general and EVs in particular. If the market for EVs does not gain broad market acceptance or develops more slowly than we expect, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be harmed. The market for alternative fuel vehicles is relatively new, rapidly evolving, characterized by rapidly changing technologies, price competition, additional competitors, evolving government regulation and industry standards, frequent new vehicle announcements, long development cycles for EV original equipment manufacturers and changing consumer demands and behaviors. Factors that may influence the purchase and use of alternative fuel vehicles, and specifically EVs, include: ·perceptions about EV quality, safety (in particular with respect to lithium-ion battery packs), design, performance and cost, especially if adverse events or accidents occur that are linked to the quality or safety of EVs, such as the possible perception that the Chevy Volt’s battery pack may pose a safety risk; ·perceptions about vehicle safety in general, in particular safety issues that may be attributed to the use of advanced technology, including vehicle electronics and regenerative braking systems, such as the possible perception that Toyota’s recent vehicle recalls may be attributable to these systems; 17 ·the limited range over which EVs may be driven on a single battery charge and concerns about running out of power while in use; ·the decline of an EV’s range resulting from deterioration over time in the battery’s ability to hold a charge; ·concerns about electric grid capacity and reliability, which could derail efforts to promote EVs as a practical solution to vehicles that require gasoline; ·the availability of other alternative fuel vehicles, including PHEVs; ·improvements in the fuel economy of the internal combustion engine; ·the availability of service for EVs; ·consumers’ desire and ability to purchase a luxury automobile or one that is perceived as exclusive; ·the environmental consciousness of consumers; ·volatility in the cost of oil and gasoline; ·consumers’ perceptions of the dependency of the U.S. on oil from unstable or hostile countries and the impact of international conflicts; ·government regulations and economic incentives promoting fuel efficiency and alternate forms of energy; ·access to charging stations, standardization of EV charging systems and consumers’ perceptions about convenience and cost to charge an EV; ·the availability of tax and other governmental incentives to purchase and operate EVs or future regulation requiring increased use of nonpolluting vehicles; and ·perceptions about and the actual cost of alternative fuel. The influence of any of the factors described above may cause current or potential customers not to purchase EVs and could impact the widespread consumer adoption of EVs, which would materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. A large percentage of our revenues depends on the progress of our activities under grants from the DOE. The government has a unilateral ability to make changes in the terms of grants. To the extent the DOE imposes changes which result in significant reduction of future activities under the grants, changes in the nature or extent of reimbursable costs, or changes for which we are unable to negotiate equitable adjustments, our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. On September 30, 2009, ECOtality North America was awarded a grant from the DOE structured as a cost-share agreement in the amount of $99.8 million, of which $13.4 million is sub-funded to federal research and development centers. On June 17, 2010, ECOtality North America was awarded a $15.0 million extension to the original cost-share grant, of which $1.2 million is sub-funded to federal research and development centers (such contract, as extended, the “DOE Contract”). The contract term ends in 2013. The contract is expected to result in approximately $100.2 million in revenue to us, which we expect to represent a substantial portion of our revenues while it is in effect. As a condition of the DOE Contract, we are required to meet certain obligations, including, but not limited to, producing and delivering products, services and reports on a timely basis in accordance with required standards, and properly accounting for and billing our products. Like many government contracts, the DOE Contract is subject to definitization (finalization of certain terms and conditions within the general scope of the contract) and change orders. Government regulations allow for the commencement of work by contractors prior to definitization in order to enable time-sensitive procurement to begin. The government negotiates equitable adjustments with contractors if appropriate based on the terms of definitization or change order. However, to the extent the DOE imposes change orders which result in significant reduction of future activities under the grant, changes the nature or extent of reimbursable costs, or imposes changes for which we are unable to negotiate equitable adjustments, our business, results of operations, and/or financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Certain costs allowable for reimbursement (referred to as “in kind costs”) represent certain estimated costs of ownership incurred by the owners of the vehicles in the program. With respect to such in kind costs, the Company incurs minimal actual costs. Our ability to claim reimbursement for such costs depends on the number of electric vehicles that are deployed at any given time. To the extent that the deployment of vehicles is delayed and/or the total number of vehicles in the program is less than our projection, our total allowable costs and the resulting realizable revenue will be less than the than full amount provided for by the DOE Contract. The number of deployed vehicles may be less than projected if during the contract period, EV manufacturers do not deliver the desired number of EVs, or if the consumer demand for EVs is less than projected. In addition, we are subject to periodic compliance audits in connection with the DOE Contract. If we are unable to properly perform our obligations under the DOE Contract, or if any compliance audits result in material deficiencies, material adjustments to the previously submitted claims and/or to the amounts recognized as revenue in our financial statements could occur. In addition, the DOE could terminate the DOE Contract, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 ECOtality North America may not continue to receive DOE funding or any other government funding, which currently comprises a large portion of our consolidated revenue. We expect to derive a substantial majority of our revenue during 2012 from DOE-related activity, including the DOE Contract. Government funding of projects related to renewable energy, energy, and transportation is subject to cuts or cancellation without notice. We cannot assure you that current levels of government funding for our products and services will continue. Therefore, the future of these revenue streams is uncertain and out of our control. If any of our current projects with the DOE are cut or cancelled, or future projects are reduced from those currently planned, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. To complete the DOE Contract, we may require additional working capital, which may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. The DOE Contract is cost-shared and requires a significant amount of expenditures that are borne fully by the Company before we begin to generate cost-share related to in-kind costs supported by third party project participants. As a result, profit margins related to the DOE Contract will be low and we do not expect the DOE Contract to provide significant profits. Additionally, we may require additional working capital to be able to complete the DOE Contract. Such additional capital may not be available on a timely basis, on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional working capital to fulfill the DOE Contract on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fulfill our obligations pursuant to the DOE Contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a history of losses which may continue and may negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We incurred net losses of approximately $22.5 million and $16.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We may not achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the establishment of a business enterprise. Our future revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including but not limited to, the following: ·our ability to successfully perform and complete the DOE Contract and related contracts; ·our ability to successfully develop, market, manufacture and distribute our charging stations and chargers; ·our ability to resolve any technical issues in the development and production of our products and address any technological changes in the EV industry; ·the rate of consumer adoption of EVs in general and the success of the automobile models that use our technologies; ·our access to additional capital and our future capital requirements; ·our ability to comply with evolving government standards related to the EV and automobile industry; ·the timing of payments and reimbursements from the DOE, which directly impacts our cash flow requirements; ·governmental agendas and changing funding priorities, budget issues and constraints; ·delays in government funding or the approval thereof; and ·general market and economic conditions. We may not achieve our business objectives and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on us. If we are unable to keep up with advances in electric vehicle technology, we may suffer a decline in our competitive position. We may be unable to keep up with changes in EV technology and evolving industry standards and, as a result, may suffer a decline in our competitive position. Any failure to keep up with advances in EV technology or to conform to new industry standards would result in a decline in our competitive position which would materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. Our research and development efforts may not be sufficient to adapt to changes in EV technology and we may not have sufficient capital resources to address all such changes. As technologies change, we plan to upgrade or adapt our charging stations in order to continue to provide EVs with the latest technology, in particular battery cell technology. However, our charging stations may not compete effectively with other providers if we are not able to source and integrate the latest technology into our charging stations. For example, if a competitor was able to produce a charging station that fully charges EV batteries in less time, our products will be less desirable, which would materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. 19 We face competition from large established renewable and alternative energy development companies which are also seeking to develop alternative energy power sources. Such competition could reduce our revenue or force us to reduce our prices, which would reduce our potential profitability. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive. Numerous companies, including many companies that have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, manufacturing, distribution and other resources than we do, are seeking to develop products and technologies that will compete with our products and technologies (including Minit-Charger and our Blink charging stations). Our primary competitors in the EV infrastructure market include Better Place, Coulomb Technologies, AeroVironment, Inc., Aker Wade Power Technologies, LLC, Car Charging Group, Delta-Q Technologies, Elektromotive (UK), Bosch, General Electric, Siemens and Schneider Electric. Our primary competitors in the industrial fast-charge market include AeroVironment, Inc., Aker Wade Power Technologies, LLC, Power Designers, LLC, C&D Technologies, Inc., and other suppliers of battery charging equipment and infrastructure, designers of battery charging rooms and battery manufacturers and dealers. Our competitors may be able to provide customers with different or greater capabilities or benefits than we can provide in areas such as technical qualifications, past contract performance, geographic presence and price. Furthermore, many of our competitors may be able to utilize their substantially greater resources and economies of scale to develop competing products and technologies, divert sales away from us by winning broader contracts or hire away our employees by offering more lucrative compensation packages. In the event that the market for EV charging systems expands, we expect that competition will intensify as additional competitors enter the market and current competitors expand their product lines. In order to secure contracts successfully when competing with larger, well-financed companies, we may be forced to agree to contractual terms that provide for lower aggregate payments to us over the life of the contract, which could adversely affect our margins. Our failure to compete effectively with respect to any of these or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results. We may not be able to protect our patents and intellectual property, and we could incur substantial costs defending against claims that our products infringe on the proprietary or other rights of third parties. Some of our intellectual property may not be covered by any patent or patent application. Moreover, we do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will be issued or, if they are issued, whether they will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology and processes. Even if all of our patent applications are issued and are sufficiently broad, our patents may be challenged or invalidated. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending patent infringement suits or otherwise protecting our intellectual property rights, regardless of the merits of any such suits. While we have attempted to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, we do not know whether we have been or will be completely successful in doing so. Moreover, patent applications filed in foreign countries may be subject to laws, rules and procedures that are substantially different from those of the U.S., and any resulting foreign patents may be difficult and expensive to enforce. Our competitors may independently develop or patent technologies or processes that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. If we are found to be infringing on third party patents, we could be required to pay substantial royalties and/or damages, and we do not know whether we will be able to obtain licenses to use such patents on acceptable terms, or at all. Failure to obtain needed licenses could delay or prevent the development, manufacture or sale of our products, and could necessitate the expenditure of significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property. Asserting, defending and maintaining our intellectual property rights could be difficult and costly and failure to do so may diminish our ability to compete effectively and may harm our operating results. We may need to pursue lawsuits or legal action in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and domain names and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. If third parties prepare and file applications for trademarks used or registered by us, we may oppose those applications and be required to participate in proceedings to determine the priority of rights to the trademark. Similarly, competitors may have filed applications for patents, may have received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights relating to products or technology that block or compete with ours. We may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine the priority of invention and the right to a patent for the technology. In addition, we may be involved in other litigation matters, investigations and disputes from time to time, arising in the normal course of business. Litigation, investigations, disputes and interference proceedings, whether they are related to intellectual property or other aspects of our business, even if they are successful, are frequently expensive to pursue and time consuming, could result in a diversion of our management’s attention and could result in judgments or penalties that have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 The underlying technology of Minit-Charger or our Blink chargers may not remain commercially viable, and this could affect the revenue and potential profit of ECOtality North America. Competitors may develop competing technology in fast charging, conditioning and monitoring batteries for transportation and industrial applications which could be a superior technology and/or be produced at a lower cost than our technology. If this occurs and we are unable to modify our technology to provide greater results or at a lower price, we could lose our technology advantage, which would adversely impact or eliminate our revenue and profitability in our transportation and industrial charging segments. The demand for hydrogen testing and educational materials, and small-scale applications for fuel cell products may not continue, and this could affect the prospects for the Fuel Cell Store. We face competition in the provision of fuel cell products and educational materials from a number of companies. Additionally, the hydrogen industry is evolving; demand is unpredictable and follows outside forces such as school funding programs and government funding which are out of our control. If demand for these products and materials decreases, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. An increase in interest rates or a dramatic tightening of corporate credit markets could make it difficult for end-users to finance the cost of a conversion to renewable energy products and systems, and could reduce or eliminate the demand for our products. Many of our end-users depend on debt financing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to purchase and install renewable energy products and systems. As a result, an increase in interest rates or further tightening in the credit markets could make it difficult for our end-users to secure the financing necessary to purchase and install renewable energy products and systems on favorable terms, or at all, and thus lower demand for our products and reduce our net sales. In addition, we believe that a significant percentage of our end-users install renewable energy products as an investment, funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An increase in interest rates could lower an investor’s return on investment in a renewable energy products and systems and make alternative investments more attractive relative to an investment in renewable energy products. Problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur warranty expenses, damage our market reputation and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share. Our products are sold with various materials and workmanship warranties for technical defects. These warranties range in length from 1 to 25 years. As a result, we bear the risk of warranty claims after we have sold our products and recognized net sales. As of December 31, 2011, our accrued warranty expense was approximately $0.6 million. Because of the limited operating history of our products, we have been required to make assumptions regarding the durability and reliability of our products. Our assumptions could prove to be materially different from the actual performance of our products, causing us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products in the future. Any widespread product failures may damage our market reputation and cause our sales to decline and require us to repair or replace the defective products, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We depend on a limited number of third-party suppliers for key raw materials and components and their failure to perform could cause manufacturing delays and impair our ability to deliver our products to customers in the required quality and quantities and at a price that is profitable to us. Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our quality, quantity and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our products or increase our manufacturing cost. Most of our key raw materials are either sole-sourced or sourced by a limited number of third-party suppliers. As a result, the failure of any of our suppliers to perform could disrupt our supply chain and impair our operations. In addition, many of our suppliers are small companies that may be unable to supply our increasing demand for raw materials as we implement our planned rapid expansion. We may be unable to identify new suppliers or qualify their products for use on our production lines in a timely manner and on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan and the recent battery related problems with the Chevrolet Volt continues to disrupt the manufacturing of, and may delay the delivery of, the Nissan LEAF and Chevrolet Volt. If Nissan and General Motors, respectively, do not deliver the desired number of EVs, we may not be able to achieve full cost reimbursement under the DOE Contract, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 21 Our international operations subject us to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor and tax conditions in foreign countries. We have operations outside the U.S. and expect to continue to have operations outside the U.S. in the near future. Currently, we have manufacturing operations in Mexico and established a subsidiary in Australia and Hong Kong. In addition, we have signed agreements to establish joint ventures in the People’s Republic of China, although they have not yet been formed. As a result, we will be subject to the legal, political, social and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent to international operations, include, but are not limited to, the following: ·difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems; ·foreign countries may impose additional withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign income, impose tariffs, or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls; ·fluctuations in exchange rates may affect product demand and may adversely affect our profitability in U.S. dollars to the extent the price of our solar modules, cost of raw materials and labor and equipment is denominated in a foreign currency; ·inability to obtain, maintain, or enforce intellectual property rights; ·risk of nationalization of private enterprises; ·changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate; ·unexpected adverse changes in foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to environmental protection, export duties and quotas; ·difficulty with staffing and managing widespread operations; and ·trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our solar modules and make us less competitive in some countries. Our future success depends on our ability to retain our key employees. We are dependent on the services of Jonathan Read, our Chief Executive Officer, Murray Jones, our Chief Operating Officer, H. Ravi Brar, our Chief Financial Officer, Barry Baer, our Secretary and Assistant Treasurer, Donald Karner, President of our ECOtality North America subsidiary and Kevin Morrow, Executive Vice President of our ECOtality North America subsidiary. The loss of Messrs. Read, Jones, Brar, Baer, Karner or Morrow could have a material adverse effect on us and our ability to achieve our business objectives. We may not be able to retain or replace these key employees. Several of our current key employees, including Messrs. Read, Jones, Brar, Baer, Karner and Morrow, are subject to employment conditions or arrangements that contain post-employment non-competition provisions. However, these arrangements permit the employees to terminate their employment with us upon little or no notice, and the enforceability of such non-competition provisions could be limited in certain circumstances. Failure to maintain our management team could prove disruptive to our daily operations, require a disproportionate amount of resources and management attention and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses resulting from product liability claims, business interruptions, or natural disasters. We are exposed to risks associated with product liability claims in the event that the use of our products results in personal injury or property damage. Our recharging systems, batteries, solar modules are electricity-producing devices, and it is possible that users could be injured or killed by our products due to product malfunctions, defects, improper installation or other causes. Our commercial shipment of products began in 1999 and, due to our limited historical experience, we are unable to predict whether product liability claims will be brought against us in the future or the effect of any resulting adverse publicity on our business. Moreover, we may not have adequate resources and insurance to satisfy a judgment in the event of a successful claim against us. The successful assertion of product liability claims against us could result in potentially significant monetary damages and require us to make significant payments. Any business disruption could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. 22 Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our common stock has historically been thinly traded, so the price of our common stock could be volatile and could decline at a time when you want to sell your holdings. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol ECTY. Our common stock has historically been thinly traded and the price of our common stock may be volatile. Between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2011, our stock has traded as low as $0.87 and as high as $4.80 per share. In addition, as of December 31, 2011, our average trading volume during the last three months has been approximately 88,032 shares per day. As a result, numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. These factors include: ·expiration of lock-up agreements; ·our earnings releases, actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; ·changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; ·speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; ·significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers, suppliers or the DOE; ·stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the electric transportation industry; ·demand for our products; ·investor perceptions of the electric transportation industry in general and the Company in particular; ·the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; ·general economic conditions and trends; ·major catastrophic events; ·announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; ·changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; ·failure to comply with Nasdaq rules; ·sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; and ·additions or departures of key personnel. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in the Company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. A sale or perceived sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or the perception that these sales could occur, may depress the trading price of our common stock. These sales could also impair our ability to raise additional capital through a sale of our equity securities on terms we deem favorable or at all. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize us to issue 1,300,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had 23,915,468 shares of common stock issued and outstanding, shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding that may be converted into 6,329,650 shares of common stock and 5,805,521 shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of outstanding warrants and options. All of the shares issuable upon conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and exercise of the warrants may be sold without restriction assuming the continuing effectiveness of the registration statement that was deemed effective by the SEC on June 24, 2010. 23 Although certain holders of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and warrants may not convert their Series A Convertible Preferred Stock if such conversion or exercise would cause them to own more than 9.99% of our outstanding common stock, these restrictions do not prevent them from converting their holdings after they have sold shares. The number of shares of common stock eligible for sale in the public market is limited by restrictions under federal securities law and may also be restricted under any agreements entered into with any underwriters who may participate in this offering. We may continue to issue our stock and, subject to any restrictions in our debt instruments, if any, we may issue the stock of our subsidiaries to raise capital. Issuances of our stock or the stock of a subsidiary could dilute the interest of our existing stockholders and may reduce the trading price of our common stock. In addition, the shares issued upon conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and/or exercise of the outstanding warrants could have the effect of further diluting the proportionate equity interest and voting power of holders of our common stock, including investors in this offering. We have not paid dividends on our common stock in the past and do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Any return on investment may be limited to the value of our common stock. No cash dividends have been paid on our common stock. We expect that any income received from operations will be used to fund our future operations and growth. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the near future. Payment of dividends would depend upon our profitability at the time, cash available for those dividends, and other factors as our Board of Directors may consider relevant. As a result, any return on your investment in our common stock may be limited to the amount of appreciation in the share price thereof, if any. Our directors, executive officers and affiliates will continue to exert significant control over our future direction, which could reduce the price and likelihood of a change of control transaction. As of December 31, 2011 members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, together with our affiliates, owned approximately 50% of our outstanding common stock, determined in accordance with the SEC’s rules for calculating beneficial ownership. Accordingly, these stockholders, if they act together, may be able to control all matters requiring the approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. In addition, these stockholders can exert significant influence over our business and operations and may have interests that are adverse to the interests of our other stockholders. This concentration of ownership, which could result in a continued concentration of representation on our Board of Directors, may also delay, prevent or deter a change in control and could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our business or assets. There is a reduced probability of a change of control or acquisition of us due to the possible issuance of preferred stock. This reduced probability could deprive our investors of the opportunity to otherwise sell our stock in an acquisition of us by others. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 200,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 6,329,650 shares were outstanding as of December 31, 2011, in one or more series and to fix the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions thereof, including dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, liquidation preferences and the number of shares constituting any series or designation of such series, without further vote or action by stockholders. As a result of the existence of “blank check” preferred stock, potential acquirers of the Company may find it more difficult to, or be discouraged from, attempting to effect an acquisition transaction with, or a change of control of, the Company, thereby possibly depriving holders of our securities of certain opportunities to sell or otherwise dispose of such securities at above-market prices pursuant to such transactions. Certain provisions of our corporate governing documents and Nevada law could discourage, delay, or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. Certain provisions of our organizational documents and Nevada law could discourage potential acquisition proposals, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company, or limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. For example, our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws permit us to issue, without any further vote or action by the stockholders, up to 200,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and, with respect to each series, to fix the number of shares constituting the series and the designation of the series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of the series, and the preferences and relative, participating, optional, and other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations, or restrictions of the shares of the series. In addition, our Articles of Incorporation permit our Board of Directors to adopt amendments to our Bylaws. 24 Our failure to maintain the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market could result in a de-listing of our common stock. If we fail to satisfy the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market, such as the corporate governance requirements, the minimum closing bid price requirement or remaining current in our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), Nasdaq may take steps to de-list our common stock. Such a de-listing would likely have a negative effect on the price of our common stock and would impair your ability to sell or purchase our common stock when you wish to do so. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. We currently have research coverage by a single analyst. We may never obtain research coverage by other industry or financial analysts. If few analysts commence or provide coverage of us, the trading price of our stock would likely decrease. Even if we do obtain analyst coverage, if one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of the Company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price and/or trading volume to decline, which could adversely affect your ability to sell our common stock at favorable prices or at all. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 