D. Risk Factors The following risks relate specifically to the Company’s business and should be considered carefully. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of the following risks. As a result, the trading price of our ordinary shares and our American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, could decline and the holders could lose part or all of their investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are at an early stage of our development as a specialist integrated pharmaceutical company. Our first product, Aridol, has commenced generating initial revenue in a limited number of jurisdictions. We may not be successful in deriving meaningful revenues from Aridol. We do not currently have, and we may never have, any other products other than Aridol that generate revenues. Unless we are able to generate sufficient product revenue, we will continue to incur losses from operations and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We are at an early stage of our development as a specialist integrated pharmaceutical company. We were incorporated in May 1998 and we have a limited operating history on which to evaluate our business and prospects. To date, we do not have, and we may never have, any products that generate significant revenues. We have launched our first product, Aridol, in a limited number of jurisdictions including Australia and Sweden. We have generated a small amount of revenue from Aridol in these jurisdictions to date. We have funded our operations primarily through the private sales of our securities, the initial public offering of our securities in Australia and the U.S. and a share purchase plan. We have also received funding from government research grants and earned interest income on invested funds. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial losses. We incurred losses of approximately A$10.4 million, A$17.7 million and A$24.2 million in the fiscal years ended June 30, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. Our accumulated losses from inception to June 30, 2007 are A$62.8 million. These losses, among other things, have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on our shareholders’ equity and working capital. Unless we are able to generate sufficient product revenue, we will continue to incur losses from operations and may not achieve or maintain profitability. We expect our expenses to increase significantly in the short term in connection with: • the regulatory marketing authorization process to approve the sale of Aridol in the U.S. and parts of the European Union, or E.U., and other jurisdictions. Aridol was the first of our product candidates to complete Phase III trials in any jurisdiction and the first of our product candidates for which we have sought marketing authorization. We have to date received marketing authorization in Australia and 14 European countries. The work involved in seeking regulatory marketing authorization for Aridol in other jurisdictions, including the U.S., is extensive, time consuming and expensive; • the development of our Aridol sales and marketing capability. Our existing sales and marketing capability is currently limited to a sales team for Australia, six distributors in Europe, and a European office to oversee and service our European distributors. To date our sales and marketing capability has not represented a significant cost to us. Our sales and marketing capability must be increased to enable the sales and marketing of Aridol in U.S. and to expand sales in Europe and Australia; • the continuation of simultaneous Phase III clinical trials of Bronchitol for different chronic respiratory disorders. These clinical trials are carried out in a number of jurisdictions and with respect to a number of indications and are expensive. Our first Phase III study of Bronchitol for the treatment of people with bronchiectasis has recently been completed; • our expenses will increase as we commence new clinical trials and progress existing trials to more advanced phases and/ or additional sites. The more advanced clinical trials typically require more clinical trial participants, clinical trial sites and research investigators than earlier stage clinical trials and are consequently more expensive; —5— Table of Contents • the commencement of Phase I clinical trials of PXS25/64, which will represent a significant new expense for us; • although we already have existing expenses associated with the preclinical testing of several product candidates, in the short term, we will continue to incur expenses as a result of preclinical testing of product candidates and any other clinical trials and preclinical testing that we may initiate; and • the establishment of a number of early stage research and development projects being undertaken by or on behalf of the Company. We also expect to incur increased general and administrative expenses in support of our increased operations as well as the ongoing costs to operate as a company listed on the Australian Securities Exchange and on the Nasdaq Global Market. Over the longer term, the costs referred to above will fluctuate, primarily dependant on the number and type of clinical trials being undertaken by us at any one time, regulatory marketing authorizations being sought, the extent of our sales and marketing operations and the research and development projects being undertaken . Costs will also increase if we are able to progress any further clinical trial candidates from preclinical testing to clinical trials or if we are able to complete clinical trials of any product candidates and seek regulatory marketing authorizations. We may not become profitable if Bronchitol is unsuccessful in ongoing clinical trials or we are unable to obtain regulatory approvals for Aridol and Bronchitol in key jurisdictions. Even though we have received regulatory approval for Aridol in a number of jurisdictions and may receive regulatory approval for Aridol and other product candidates in other jurisdictions, profitability will depend on our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products or the licensing of our technology. We cannot be certain of the success of our clinical development of Bronchitol or any of our other product candidates in preclinical testing or clinical development will be successful, that any of our products or product candidates will receive the regulatory approvals required to commercialize them, or that any of our research and development programs will yield additional product candidates suitable for investigation through clinical trials. Our Phase III study of Bronchitol for the treatment of people with bronchiectasis for Europe and Australia has recently been completed and the study met its two primary efficacy endpoints, being quality of life and mucus clearance. However, we cannot be certain that results of the study will enable marketing approval to be granted in any jurisdiction. We will undertake continuing clinical trials of Bronchitol for the treatment of people with bronchiectasis in the U.S. In addition we will continue simultaneous clinical trials of Bronchitol for the treatment of cystic fibrosis and chronic bronchitis. If Bronchitol is unsuccessful in these and other ongoing clinical trials, or we are unable to obtain marketing authorization of our products and product candidates in all key jurisdictions, we may not be profitable. Clinical trials of Bronchitol will continue for several years, but may take significantly longer to complete. There is a risk that these clinical trials of Bronchitol may not be successful or that marketing approval may not be granted in the future. If we are not able to successfully complete clinical trials of Bronchitol, and if we are unable to obtain marketing authorization of Bronchitol, we may not be profitable. If we are unable to obtain marketing authorization of Aridol in the U.S. and other key jurisdictions, we may not be profitable. Likewise, if we are unable to obtain marketing authorization of our products and product candidates in all key jurisdictions, we may not be profitable. We have completed the Phase III clinical trials of Aridol necessary for U.S. registration of Aridol. However, we cannot be certain that marketing approval will be granted in the U.S. There is a risk that these Phase III clinical trials in the U.S. may not be sufficient and that marketing authorization may not be granted in the U.S. The process to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and commercialize potential product candidates is long, complex and costly. Even if we receive regulatory approval for any product candidates, profitability will depend on our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our products or the licensing of our technology that will offset the significant and continuing expenditures required for us to advance our research, protect and extend our —6— Table of Contents intellectual property rights and develop, manufacture, license, market, distribute and sell our technology and products successfully. Our ability to generate revenue depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: • successfully conduct and complete clinical trials for Bronchitol and our other product candidates; • develop and obtain all necessary regulatory marketing authorization, as well as approvals concerning pricing and reimbursement, which may be necessary in some of the E.U. member states, for Aridol and Bronchitol in our target markets where we do not currently have regulatory marketing authorization and, in the future, to develop and obtain regulatory marketing authorization for our other product candidates; • manufacture or obtain commercial quantities of Aridol and Bronchitol or our other product candidates at acceptable cost levels; and • successfully market and sell Aridol, Bronchitol and our other product candidates. In circumstances where we have licensed our technology to third parties, our ability to generate revenue will depend on the success of the licensor of the technology to successfully market and sell the licensed technology. Although we have a pipeline of potential product candidates, our business is currently substantially dependent on our ability to complete development, obtain regulatory approval for, and successfully commercialize Aridol and Bronchitol in a timely manner. If we are unable to successfully commercialize Aridol and/or Bronchitol, we may not be able to earn sufficient revenues to continue our business. If we fail to become and remain profitable, or if we are unable to fund our continuing losses, there would be a material adverse effect on our business and the holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs could lose all or part of their investment. Unsuccessful or delayed marketing authorization could increase our future development costs or impair our future revenue. Approvals that may be given may not cover all the indications for which we seek approval or may contain significant limitations. To receive regulatory marketing authorization for the commercial sale of our product candidates, we must conduct preclinical studies and clinical trials to demonstrate safety and efficacy in humans. This process of attempting to gain regulatory approval is expensive and can take many years, and failure can occur at any stage of the testing. We have received regulatory marketing authorization for Aridol in certain target markets including Australia and 14 European countries. Our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of Aridol in our other target markets and/or our failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of Bronchitol for the treatment of various chronic respiratory disorders and/or any of our other product candidates or otherwise fail to satisfy regulatory requirements will prevent regulatory approval and commercialization of such product candidates. Our inability to successfully and effectively complete clinical trials for our product candidates, in particular clinical trials of Bronchitol, will severely harm our business and we may not be profitable. Significant delays in clinical development could materially increase our product development costs, delay our receipt of revenue or allow our competitors to bring product candidates to market before we do, impairing our ability to effectively commercialize Aridol and Bronchitol or our other product candidates. In addition, any authorization we may obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we seek approval. Also, an authorization might contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions or contraindications with respect to conditions of use. We will continue to need significant amounts of additional capital that may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all or which may be dilutive. To date, we have funded our operations and capital expenditures with proceeds from the sale of our securities, government grants and interest on investments. In order to achieve our goal of being a fully integrated pharmaceutical company and to conduct the lengthy and expensive research, preclinical studies, clinical trials, regulatory approval process, manufacture, sales and marketing necessary to complete the full development of our product candidates, we may require substantial additional funds in addition to the funds received in connection with the U.S. public offering and the Australian placement completed in November 2005. In particular, we may require substantial additional funding as a result of —7— Table of Contents our strategy of building a specialist international fully integrated pharmaceutical company and not always entering into strategic alliances or partnerships in order to commercialize our product candidates. To meet these financing requirements, we may raise funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, and through other means, including collaborations and license agreements. Raising additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities may cause our shareholders to experience significant additional dilution in their ownership interests. Raising additional funds through debt financing, if available, may involve covenants that restrict our business activities. Additional funding may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If we are unable to obtain additional funds, we may be forced to delay, reduce the scope or terminate our clinical trials and the development, manufacturing and marketing of our products. To the extent that we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we may have to relinquish valuable rights and control over our technologies, research programs or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we fail to obtain additional financing, we may be unable to fund our operations and commercialize our product candidates. We expect that our cash expenditure will increase for the next several years, and that we will spend substantial amounts to complete the clinical development and commercialization of Aridol, Bronchitol, PXS25/64 and our other product candidates, and to license or acquire other product candidates. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least 12 months. Our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including the scope, results, rate of progress, timing and costs of preclinical studies and clinical trials and other development activities. The funding requirements for clinical trials of Aridol, Bronchitol and PXS25/64 are significant. The funding requirements for the preclinical testing and potential future clinical testing of our product candidates and any other testing that we may initiate is also significant; • costs and timing of seeking and obtaining regulatory approvals; • costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • costs of developing our sales and marketing capabilities and establishing distribution capabilities; • costs of expanding our manufacturing capabilities to satisfy demand for our products; • costs of additional management and scientific, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel. We will be required to increase the number of our personnel over time; • terms, timing and cash requirements of any future acquisitions, collaborative arrangements, licensing of product candidates or investing in businesses, product candidates and technologies; • costs of securing coverage, payment and reimbursement of our product candidates which receive regulatory approval; and • effects of competing clinical, technological and market developments. If we are not able to secure additional funding when needed, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our clinical trials or research and development programs or future commercialization efforts. We may be required to repay previously received grant revenue in certain circumstances which would have an adverse effect on our cash position. We have received substantial grant funding under a grant agreement with the Commonwealth of Australia. There is a risk that we will not be entitled to the grant payments for failing to incur eligible expenditure or failing to undertake activities associated with the grant or otherwise for failing to satisfy the relevant conditions in the grant agreement. Furthermore, there is a risk we will not be entitled to the funds under the grant agreement, including, if the Commonwealth of Australia has insufficient funding for the relevant grant program, if we fail to submit reports when required, if we have not otherwise complied with our obligations under the funding agreement, or if the —8— Table of Contents Commonwealth of Australia is entitled to or does terminate the relevant agreement. The Commonwealth of Australia may terminate the grant agreements on different bases, including by giving us written notice of termination if we are in breach of the agreement and if in the opinion of the Commonwealth of Australia the breach is not capable of being remedied or if capable of being remedied it is not remedied after receipt of written notice, if we fail to submit reports, if our research and development activities or the quality of those activities do not satisfy the grant eligibility criteria, if there is a change of control of us or if we become insolvent. In certain circumstances where we fail to use our best endeavors to commercialize the project within a reasonable time of completion of the project or upon termination of a grant due to our breach of agreement or our insolvency, the Commonwealth of Australia may require us to repay some, or all, of the grant. If required to repay the grant amounts, we may be required to reallocate funds needed to continue the commercialization of our products and such repayment may have a material adverse effect on our cash position and us. Currency fluctuations may expose us to increased costs and revenue decreases. Our business may in the future be affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. Currency fluctuations could, therefore, cause our costs to increase and revenues to decline. The majority of our expenses will continue to be denominated in Australian dollars although we will also be expending cash in other denominations, including the U.S. dollar, British pound, Swedish krona, Danish krona and the European euro. The exchange rates of the Australian dollar to the U.S. dollar, the British pound, the Swedish krona and the European euro have fluctuated in recent years. In circumstances where the Australian dollar devalues against any or all of the U.S. dollar, the British pound, the Swedish krona or the European euro, this may have an adverse effect on our costs incurred in either the U.S. or Europe (as applicable) but may have a positive effect on any revenues which we source from the U.S. or Europe (as applicable). The same principles apply in respect of our costs and revenues in other jurisdictions. In addition, we conduct clinical trials in many different countries and we have manufacturing of some of our product candidates undertaken outside of Australia, which exposes us to potential cost increases resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. We do not currently have any plans to hedge the effect of currency fluctuations on our overseas expenditures. We manage our currency risks by settling foreign currency payables immediately upon recognition of a foreign currency liability and/or by holding foreign currency cash funds to match net foreign currency payables. Risks Related to Research and Development of Our Products Clinical trials are expensive, time consuming, subject to delay and their outcome is uncertain and may not be completed at all. Before we can obtain regulatory authorization for the commercial sale of any product or product candidate, we are required to complete preclinical development and extensive clinical trials in humans to demonstrate its safety and efficacy. Preclinical development and clinical trials are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other regulatory authorities in the U.S., the E.U., Australia and elsewhere. In addition, clinical trials must be conducted with product candidates produced under applicable current Good Manufacturing Practices. Clinical trials are expensive and complex, can take many years, are often subject to delay and have uncertain outcomes. The FDA has accepted an Investigational New Drug Application, or IND, for inhaled dry powdered mannitol. We have completed the Phase III clinical trials of Aridol that we believe are necessary for U.S. marketing authorization of Aridol. Our Phase III study of Bronchitol for Europe and Australia for the treatment of people with bronchiectasis has recently been completed and the study met its two primary efficacy endpoints, being quality of life and mucus clearance. We have reached agreement with the FDA in relation to a protocol for a U.S. Phase III trial in subjects with cystic fibrosis and are in discussions with the FDA in relation to the protocol for the U.S. Phase III trial in subjects with bronchiectasis. Clinical trials of our product candidates, Bronchitol and PXS25/64, will continue for several years, but may take significantly longer to complete. We are also likely to undertake continuing trials of Aridol. There are numerous factors that could affect the timing of the commencement, continuation and completion of clinical trials which may delay the clinical trials or prevent us from completing these trials successfully, including but not limited to: • delays in securing clinical investigators or trial sites for our clinical trials, scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions, and delays in obtaining institutional review board, or IRB, and other regulatory approvals to commence a clinical trial. There are a limited number of clinical —9— Table of Contents investigators and clinical trials sites worldwide able to conduct the clinical trials required by us. Clinical investigators and trial sites may have demands from a number of companies competing to use their resources; • slower than anticipated recruitment and enrollment of patients who meet the trial eligibility criteria or the loss of patients during the course of the clinical trials. By way of example, we experienced delays on our Bronchitol Phase II clinical trials for the treatment of cystic fibrosis because recruitment was slower than anticipated. We managed the enrollment problem by modifying the protocol to widen the eligibility of clinical trial participants, adding additional clinical trial sites and assisting with resourcing at clinical trial sites. We may not be able to successfully manage such enrollment problems in the future; • the requirement to repeat or undertake large clinical trials. Our Phase II and Phase III clinical trials involve a large number of patients and are typically carried out in different jurisdictions and may also need to be repeated if required by regulatory authorities; • negative or inconclusive results from clinical trials, or deficiencies in the conduct of the clinical trials may require us to repeat clinical trials; • unforeseen safety issues or unforeseen adverse side effects or fatalities or other adverse events arising during a clinical trial due to medical problems that may or may not be related to clinical trial treatments; • the product candidate may not be competitive with current therapies. For example, Aridol must prove to be convenient and effective as a test for airway hyper-responsiveness, which assists in the identification of and determines the severity of asthma. In addition, Bronchitol must improve the quality of life and health of people with chronic obstructive lung diseases such as bronchiectasis, cystic fibrosis and chronic bronchitis; • quality or stability of the product candidate may fall below acceptable standards; • shortages of available product supply. We may be required to simultaneously provide product to patients in a range of jurisdictions and there may be shortages or delays in supplying the product in those jurisdictions; • uncertain dosing issues; and • inability to monitor patients adequately during or after treatment or problems with investigator or patient compliance with the trial protocols. Due to the foregoing and other factors, the regulatory approval of Aridol in the U.S. or in other key markets where we do not currently have marketing approval of Aridol, as well as the regulatory approval of Bronchitol, PXS25/64 and any of our other future product candidates, could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or these products may never gain approval or may only gain approval in some but not all jurisdictions, which could reduce or eliminate our revenue by delaying or terminating the potential commercialization of our products or product candidates. If we suffer any significant delays, setbacks or negative results in, or termination of, our clinical trials, we may be unable to continue the development of our products or product candidates or generate revenue and our business may be materially adversely affected. Ongoing and future clinical trials of our product candidates may not show sufficient safety or efficacy to obtain requisite regulatory approvals. Ongoing and future clinical trials of our product candidates may not show sufficient safety or efficacy to obtain regulatory approval for marketing. Phase I and Phase II clinical trials are not primarily designed to test the efficacy of a product candidate but rather to test safety, to study pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics and to understand the product candidate’s side effects at various doses and schedules. Furthermore, success in preclinical and early clinical trials does not ensure that later large-scale trials will be successful nor does it predict final results. Acceptable results in early trials may not be repeated in later trials. There is a risk that the final results of Phase III clinical trials may not show sufficient safety or efficacy to obtain regulatory approval for marketing approval in the U.S. despite the completion of Phase III trials in other jurisdictions and the granting of marketing authority in other —10— Table of Contents jurisdictions. Likewise, clinical trials of product candidates may not show sufficient safety or efficacy to obtain regulatory approval for marketing. We may conduct lengthy and expensive clinical trials of our product candidates, only to learn that the product candidate is not an effective treatment. A number of companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. In addition, clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may require trials to be redone or delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause the clinical trial to be delayed, redone or terminated. In addition, failure to construct appropriate clinical trial protocols or other factors could result in the test or control group experiencing a disproportionate number of adverse events and could cause a clinical trial to be redone or terminated. The length of time necessary to complete clinical trials and to submit an application for marketing approval for a final decision by applicable regulatory authorities may also vary significantly based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidate involved, as well as other factors. Due to our reliance on contract research organizations, hospitals and investigators to conduct clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct and expense of our clinical trials. We also use third parties to provide research and development services and do not have direct control of the timing, conduct and expense of certain of our research programs. We rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, hospitals and research investigators to provide services in connection with our clinical trials. Our clinical trials are conducted by a number of third parties at a number of different sites in different jurisdictions. We believe that the agreements that we enter into with these third parties are customary for agreements relating to the provision of clinical trial services. The agreements set out the parameters and protocols for the relevant clinical trials, set out the amount payable by us, as well as setting out the rights and obligations of the third parties and us. To date, we have been able to manage the use of these third parties in order to effectively carry out our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Although there are a range of suitable institutions and investigators that would be able to conduct the clinical trials on our behalf, there is no guarantee that we will be able to enter into any such arrangement on acceptable terms, if at all. Risks Related to the Manufacture of Our Products The failure to secure an adequate supply of the inhalers to be used in the administration of Aridol and Bronchitol could compromise the commercialization of Aridol and Bronchitol. Both Aridol and Bronchitol are administered through a dry powder inhaler. If we are not able to enter into a supply agreement or the number of inhalers supplied are inadequate to meet patient demand, we would be subject to costly delays which may compromise the commercialization of Aridol and/or Bronchitol. The supply of inhalers may be delayed or we may need to change our supplier of inhalers which could delay the commercialization of Aridol and/or Bronchitol. Delays in the supply of the necessary quantity or quality of mannitol could compromise the commercialization of our products. Any delays in the supply of the necessary quantity or quality of mannitol for the manufacture of Aridol and Bronchitol could compromise the commercialization of our products. The supply of mannitol may be delayed, or we may need to change our supplier of mannitol, which could potentially result in delays to the supply of the product to clinical trials and for sale while we sourced alternative suppliers of mannitol. —11— Table of Contents We currently have limited manufacturing capacity and outsource some manufacturing for the clinical development and commercial production of our products, all of which puts us at risk of lengthy and costly delays of bringing our products to market. We currently operate manufacturing facilities in Sydney, Australia. Our manufacturing facilities are licensed by the Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration, or TGA, to manufacture Good Manufacturing Practice grade material for commercial sale. We have outsourced the manufacturing of Good Manufacturing Practice grade PXS25/64 for preclinical trials and clinical trials as our manufacturing facilities are not suitable for the production of PXS25/64. We have recently entered into an agreement concerning the lease of a purpose built manufacturing, warehousing and office facility. Construction of the new facility is expected to commence in the fourth quarter of 2007 and is expected to take approximately twelve months to complete. We will be subject to significant undetermined risks associated with the building of these new facilities, including delays in construction and disputes in connection with the construction, which may delay or severely compromise the commercialization of our products and our results and operations may be harmed. There is also a risk of delays to our research and clinical trial activities if we needed to change our existing outsourced manufacturers of PXS25/64. We may fail to achieve and maintain required production yields or manufacturing standards which could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, product shortages, delays or failures in product testing or delivery or other problems that could seriously harm our business. In addition, we are subject to ongoing inspections and regulation of regulatory authorities, including by the TGA and the FDA. In circumstances where we seek to outsource the manufacture of certain products, there is no guarantee that we will be able to enter into any such arrangement on acceptable terms, if at all, and as a result we are at risk of lengthy and costly delays of bringing our products to market. In circumstances where we seek to outsource the manufacture of certain product candidates, such as PXS25/64, there is no guarantee that we will be able to enter into any such arrangement on acceptable terms, if at all. We may be required to enter into long-term manufacturing agreements that contain exclusivity provisions and/or substantial termination penalties. To date, the agreements for the manufacture of preclinical quantities of PXS25/64 do not contain any such exclusivity provisions or termination penalties. In addition, contract manufacturers may have a limited number of facilities in which our products can be produced and any interruption of the operation of those facilities could result in the cancellation of shipments and loss of product, resulting in delays and additional costs. We, and our contract manufacturers, are required to produce our clinical product and commercial product under FDA and E.U. current Good Manufacturing Practices in order to meet acceptable standards. If such standards change, our ability and the ability of contract manufacturers to produce our products when we require may be affected. We will outsource the manufacturing of Good Manufacturing Practice grade PXS25/64 for Phase I clinical trials as our manufacturing facilities are not suitable for the production of PXS25/64. Our existing manufacturers of PXS25/64 and any future contract manufacturers for PXS25/64 or any of our other product candidates which we seek to contract manufacture may not perform as agreed or may not remain in the contract manufacturing business for the time required to successfully produce, store and distribute our products. We, or our contract manufacturers, may also fail to achieve and maintain required production yields or manufacturing standards which could result in patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, product shortages, delays or failures in product testing or delivery or other problems that could seriously harm our business. In addition, we are, and our contract manufacturers are, subject to ongoing inspections and regulation of regulatory authorities, including by the TGA and the FDA. The ability to find an acceptable manufacturer or to change manufacturers may be difficult for a number of reasons, including that the number of potential manufacturers is limited and we may not be able to negotiate agreements with manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms, the complex nature of the manufacturing process of certain of our product candidates, such as PXS25/64, which may require a significant learning curve for the —12— Table of Contents manufacturer, and the FDA must approve any replacement manufacturer prior to manufacturing, which requires new testing and compliance inspections. If we were required and able to change manufacturers, the FDA would also require that we demonstrate structural and functional comparability between the same product manufactured by different organizations and may require comparability studies. Risks Related to Marketing, Distribution and Sales If we are unable to expand our sales and marketing force our business may be harmed. We currently have a limited number of sales and marketing staff and limited distribution capabilities including a sales force located in Australia, six distributors in Europe, and a European office to oversee and service our European distributors. Our goal is to build an integrated pharmaceutical business undertaking research and development, clinical trials, sales and marketing for certain of our product candidates. We are proposing to develop our sales and marketing capability for products which address highly concentrated markets served by specialist physicians. We intend to contract or partner with third parties in respect of sales and marketing of products where the markets are larger, more diverse or less accessible. For our early stage products or any new products, we may form other strategic alliances with third parties, which have established distribution systems and sales forces, in order to commercialize our products. We market Aridol directly in Australia, through distributors in Europe and, assuming receipt of all necessary approvals of Aridol for commercial sale, we intend to use a combination of direct marketing to pulmonary specialists and third parties in the U.S. We will need to incur significant additional expenses and commit significant additional management resources to establish a sales and marketing force. Although we have already begun to develop our sales and marketing capability, we may not be able to successfully establish these capabilities despite these additional expenditures. Even if we are successful in establishing a sales and marketing force, it may not be as effective as a third-party sales and marketing force. In circumstances where we elect to rely on third parties, we may receive less revenue than if we sold such products directly. In addition, we may have little or no control over the sales efforts of those third parties and they may not perform as agreed. In the event we are unable to sell sufficient quantities of Aridol, Bronchitol and other product candidates, either directly or through third parties, our business may be significantly harmed and we may be forced to delay, reduce the scope, or terminate our clinical trials and the development, manufacturing and marketing of our products. Our failure to establish and manage a distribution network for our products could delay or compromise the commercialization of Aridol and Bronchitol and other products. We have recently established systems and processes necessary for distributing products to customers in Australia and to marketing/distribution partners in Europe. Failure to secure additional contracts with distributors could negatively impact the distribution of our products. If we are unable to effectively establish and manage the distribution process, the commercialization of Aridol and Bronchitol and other products may be delayed or severely compromised and our results of operations may be harmed. To the extent we are able to enter into collaborative arrangements or strategic alliances, we will be exposed to risks related to those collaborations and alliances. Although our goal is to be a fully integrated pharmaceutical company, an important element of our strategy for developing, manufacturing and commercializing our product candidates is entering into partnerships and strategic alliances with other pharmaceutical companies or other industry participants to advance our programs and enable us to maintain our financial and operational capacity. We may not be able to negotiate alliances on acceptable terms, if at all. Although we do not believe any of the marketing or distribution agreements we have are currently material, such arrangements may become material in the future to the extent any of them represents a significant source of our revenue. Although we are not currently party to any collaborative arrangement or strategic alliance that is material to our business, in the future we may rely on collaborative arrangements or strategic alliances to complete the development and commercialization of some of our product candidates. These arrangements may result in us receiving less revenue than if we sold such products directly, may place the development, sales and marketing of our products outside our control, may require us to relinquish important rights or may otherwise be on terms —13— Table of Contents unfavorable to us. Collaborative arrangements or strategic alliances will subject us to a number of risks, including the risk that: • we may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our strategic partner/collaborators may devote to the product candidates; • our strategic partner/collaborators may experience financial difficulties; • we may be required to relinquish important rights such as marketing and distribution rights; • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may also adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; • a collaborator could independently move forward with a competing product developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; and • collaborative arrangements are often terminated or allowed to expire, which would delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our product candidates. We face costs associated with importing our products into markets outside of Australia. As much of our product is likely to be manufactured in Australia, we may face difficulties in importing our products into various jurisdictions as a result of, among other things, import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging. There will be increased costs associated with importing/exporting our product. Risks Relating to Competition If our competitors are able to develop and market products that are preferred over Aridol, Bronchitol or our other product candidates our commercial opportunity may be significantly reduced or eliminated. We face competition from established pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as from academic institutions, government agencies and private and public research institutions. We are seeking to develop and market products that will compete with other products and drugs that currently exist or are being developed or may be developed in the future. For Aridol, various products and treatments are currently marketed for monitoring lung hyper-responsiveness and the identification and assessment of asthma, including methacholine (Provocholine®) by Methapharm, Inc. as a direct bronchiol provocation agent. We believe Aridol is the only airway hyper-responsive test developed using dry powder inhalation technology. This test may not be well accepted in the market place or the medical community. Similarly, for Bronchitol, various products and treatments are currently marketed, including inhaled antibiotics, mucolytic agents and bronchodilators. Bronchitol may not work well in conjunction with existing marketed therapies. In addition, a number of companies are developing new approaches for the treatment of cystic fibrosis, including new antibiotic preparations by Gilead Sciences, Inc. and Novartis AG. and new agents to restore salt balance from Inspire Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Gilead Sciences, Inc. In addition, many companies are interested in gene therapy. New antibiotic preparations are being tested in patients with bronchiectasis. For patients with chronic bronchitis, new anti-inflammatory agents and new bronchodilating agents are under development. Our commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, have fewer side effects, are more convenient, are less expensive, or that reach the market sooner than our products. Scientific, clinical or technical developments by our competitors may render Aridol and/or Bronchitol or our other product candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. Further, public announcements regarding the development of any such competing products could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares or ADSs. We anticipate that we will face increased competition in the future as new companies enter the markets and as scientific developments progress. If our products obtain regulatory approvals, but do not compete effectively in the marketplace, our business will suffer. Many of our competitors currently have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, undertaking and managing manufacturing and sales and marketing of products than we do. Early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements they may have with large and established companies. In addition, these third —14— Table of Contents parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring therapies and therapy licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. We expect that our ability to compete effectively will depend upon our ability to: • successfully and rapidly complete clinical trials and obtain all requisite regulatory approvals in a cost-effective manner; • attract and retain key personnel; • demonstrate the competitive advantages of our product candidates. For example, Aridol must prove to be convenient and effective as a test for airway inflammation which identifies and determines the severity of asthma. In addition, Bronchitol must improve the quality of life and health of people with chronic obstructive lung diseases such as bronchiectasis, cystic fibrosis and chronic bronchitis; • build an adequate manufacturing, sales and marketing infrastructure. We face the risk that our future manufacturing, sales and marketing infrastructure may be inadequate for the commercialization of our products or that competitors have faster and more effective manufacturing, sales and marketing capacities; • secure the support of key clinicians and physicians. The success of our products is dependent on the acceptance of our products by key clinicians and physicians. We face the risk that our products may not be well received or that a product will be released by a competitor which is preferred by key clinicians and physicians; and • identify and obtain other product candidates on commercially reasonable terms which will provide us with a pipeline of potential product candidates which may reduce the risk if any of our existing product candidates or are adversely affected. Future sales of our products may suffer if they are not accepted in the marketplace by physicians, patients and the medical community. There is a risk that Aridol, Bronchitol or our other product candidates may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of Aridol and Bronchitol or our other product candidates will depend on a number of factors. For example, Aridol must prove to be convenient and effective as a test for airway hyper-responsiveness which assists with the identification and severity of asthma. In addition, Bronchitol must improve the quality of life for people with chronic obstructive lung diseases such as bronchiectasis, cystic fibrosis and chronic bronchitis. The prevalence and severity of any side effects to Aridol or Bronchitol could negatively affect market acceptance of both Aridol and Bronchitol. Failure to achieve market acceptance of Aridol and Bronchitol would significantly harm our business. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved products will depend on a variety of factors, including: • timing of market introduction and the number and clinical profile of competitive products. There are currently a range of existing alternative products to each of our products and we are aware that new products are being developed; • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy and our ability to secure the support of key clinicians and physicians for our products; • relative convenience and ease of administration. In the case of Aridol and Bronchitol, there is a risk that using dry powder inhalation technology may not be well accepted in the market place; • cost-effectiveness compared to existing and new treatments; • availability of coverage, reimbursement and adequate payment from health maintenance organizations and other third-parties; • prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; and —15— Table of Contents • other advantages over other treatment methods. If we are unable to obtain acceptable prices or adequate reimbursement from third-parties for Aridol and Bronchitol, or any other product candidates that we may seek to commercialize, our revenues and prospects for profitability will suffer. The commercial success of our product candidates is substantially dependent on whether third-party coverage and reimbursement is available from government bodies such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, including managed care organizations, and other third-parties. Many patients will not be capable of paying for our products themselves and will rely on third-parties to pay for their medical needs. The U.S. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, health maintenance organizations and other third-parties in the U.S., the E.U., Australia and other jurisdictions are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement of new products and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products. Our products may not be considered cost-effective and reimbursement may not be available to consumers or may not be sufficient to allow our products to be marketed on a competitive basis. Large private managed care organizations, group purchasing organizations and similar organizations are exerting increasing influence on decisions regarding the use of, and reimbursement levels for, particular treatments. Such third-parties, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, and many third-parties limit or delay reimbursement for newly approved health care products. In particular, third-parties may limit the reimbursed indications. Cost-control initiatives could decrease the price we establish for products, which could result in product revenues lower than anticipated. If the prices for our product candidates decrease or if governmental and other third-parties do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels, our prospects for revenue and for profitability will suffer. If there are fewer individuals in our target markets than we estimate, we may not generate sufficient revenues to continue development of our product candidates or continue operations. Our estimate of the patient population of our target markets is based on published studies as well as internal analyses and studies we have commissioned. If the results of these studies or our analysis do not accurately reflect the number of patients in our target markets, our assessment of the market may be wrong, making it difficult or impossible for us to meet our revenue goals. In addition, it is difficult to determine the portion of the patient population that might use Aridol and/or Bronchitol, or our other product candidates. Our orphan drug exclusivity for Bronchitol may not provide us with a competitive advantage. The FDA has granted Orphan Drug designation to Bronchitol for the treatment of both bronchiectasis and CF for patients at risk of developing bronchiectasis. Orphan drug designation for Bronchitol for the treatment of both bronchiectasis and cystic fibrosis for patients at risk of developing bronchiectasis is an important element of our competitive strategy. Any company that obtains the first FDA approval for a designated orphan drug for a rare disease generally receives marketing exclusivity for use of that drug for the designated condition for a period of seven years from approval. However, the FDA may permit other companies to market a form of mannitol, the active ingredient in Bronchitol, not covered by our patent, to treat bronchiectasis and cystic fibrosis for patients at risk of developing bronchiectasis if any such product demonstrates clinical superiority, or if we are unable to provide sufficient drug supply to meet medical needs. More than one product may also be approved by the FDA for the same orphan indication or disease as long as the products are different drugs. Any of these FDA actions could create a more competitive market for us. Additionally, our orphan drug exclusivity for Bronchitol does not apply to other drugs to treat bronchiectasis or cystic fibrosis for patients at risk of developing bronchiectasis that do not contain mannitol, or to drugs containing mannitol that seek approval for uses other than bronchiectasis or cystic fibrosis for patients at risk of developing bronchiectasis. The European Medicines Agency has likewise granted Orphan Drug designation for Bronchitol in the treatment of cystic fibrosis. European orphan drug designation provides comparable benefits to those granted in the U.S. but likewise, there are risks and limitations associated with orphan drug designation in Europe. Our orphan drug exclusivity may thus not ultimately provide us a true competitive advantage, and our business could suffer as a result. —16— Table of Contents Risks Relating to Regulatory Issues Our products are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time-consuming, and we may not obtain approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our products. The clinical development, manufacturing, sales and marketing of our products are subject to extensive regulation by regulatory authorities in the U.S., the E.U., Australia and elsewhere. These regulations vary in important, meaningful ways from country to country. We are not permitted to market a potential drug in the U.S. until we receive approval of a New Drug Application, or NDA, from the FDA. We have not yet received an NDA approval from the FDA for any of our products. Obtaining an NDA approval is expensive and is a complex, lengthy and uncertain process. The FDA approval process for a new drug involves completion of preclinical studies and the submission of the results of these studies to the FDA, together with proposed clinical protocols, manufacturing information, analytical data and other information in an investigational new drug application or IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin. Clinical development typically involves three phases of study: Phase I, II and III. The most significant costs associated with clinical development are the Phase III clinical trials as they tend to be the longest and largest studies conducted during the drug development process. After completion of clinical trials, an NDA may be submitted to the FDA. In responding to an NDA, the FDA may refuse to file the application, or if accepted for filing, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information or deny the application if it determines that the application does not provide an adequate basis for approval. In addition, failure to comply with FDA and other applicable foreign and U.S. regulatory requirements may subject us to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions. The FDA has accepted an IND for Aridol and for Bronchitol. We have completed two Phase III clinical trials of Aridol to support a U.S. registration of Aridol. Clinical trials of our other product candidates, including Bronchitol and PXS25/64, will continue for several years, but may take significantly longer to complete. We have completed a Phase II and a Phase III clinical trial of Bronchitol for the treatment of bronchiectasis outside of the U.S. and are preparing for an additional Phase III clinical trial of Bronchitol for bronchiectasis in the U.S. We have also completed a Phase II clinical trial of Bronchitol for the treatment of cystic fibrosis, have an additional Phase II dose ranging clinical trial and a Phase III clinical trial in progress outside of the U.S., and are preparing for an additional Phase III clinical trial of Bronchitol for cystic fibrosis in the U.S. Our other product candidates, including PXS25/64 are currently in varying stages of the research or preclinical phase of development. Despite the substantial time and expense invested in preparation and submission of an NDA or equivalents in other jurisdictions, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The FDA and other regulatory authorities in the U.S., the E.U., Australia and elsewhere, exercise substantial discretion in the drug approval process. The number, size and design of preclinical studies and clinical trials that will be required will vary depending on the product, the disease or condition for which the product is intended to be used and the regulations and guidance documents applicable to any particular product. The FDA or other regulators can delay, limit or deny approval of a product for many reasons, including, but not limited to, the fact that regulators may not approve our, or our third-party, manufacturing processes or facilities or that new laws may be enacted or regulators may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations requiring new or different evidence of safety and efficacy for the intended use of a product. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, we may still face development and regulatory difficulties that may delay or impair future sales of our products and we would be subject to ongoing regulatory obligations and restrictions, which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize our product candidates. Even with regulatory approval to sell Aridol or any other product candidate, the relevant regulatory authorities may, nevertheless, impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping or impose ongoing requirements for post-approval studies and adverse event reporting. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a marketed product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. Potentially costly follow-up or post-marketing clinical studies may be required as a condition of approval to further substantiate safety or efficacy, or to investigate specific issues of interest to the regulatory authority. Previously unknown problems with the product candidate, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, may result in restrictions on the marketing of the product, and could include withdrawal of the product from the market. If we discover previously unknown problems with a product or our manufacturing facilities or the manufacturing facilities of a contract —17— Table of Contents manufacturer, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, on us or on our third-party contract manufacturers, including requiring us to withdraw the product from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • suspend our regulatory approval; • suspend any of our ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us; • impose restrictions on our operations, including closing our contract manufacturers’ facilities or terminating licenses to manufacture Good Manufacturing Practice grade material; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. Any of the foregoing could seriously harm the commercialization of our products and our results and operations may be seriously harmed. Likewise, any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to commercialize our product. In addition, the law or regulatory policies governing pharmaceuticals may change. New statutory requirements may be enacted or additional regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our products and our business could suffer. Risks Relating to Product Liability Claims If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we will incur substantial liabilities and damage to our reputation and may be required to limit commercialization of Aridol and Bronchitol or other product candidates. We face product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials. We are currently conducting continuing clinical trials in respect of Aridol as well as clinical trials of Bronchitol and we expect to commence clinical trials of PXS25/64. We have commenced initial commercial sales of Aridol in Australia and Europe. We may face exposure to product liability claims in relation to Aridol and other products which we commercially market and sell in the future by a significantly greater number of persons than were involved in the clinical trials. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: • decreased demand for our products and product candidates; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients and others; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our products and product candidates. With respect to our clinical trials, we enter into indemnity agreements in favor of the hospitals, institutions, authorities, clinicians and investigators who are involved in the clinical trials on our behalf. The majority of the indemnities are in a substantially similar form and where possible are based on industry standard indemnities in the —18— Table of Contents countries in which we undertake clinical trials. Certain of the agreements have been negotiated on a case by case basis and vary from the standard. The standard indemnities typically provide that we will indemnify in respect of all claims and proceedings made by any of the patients or non-patient volunteers participating in the relevant clinical trials for personal injury arising from the administration of the product under investigation or any clinical intervention or procedure required. We have liability insurance that covers our clinical trials in countries where we conduct clinical trials. We have expanded our insurance coverage to include the sale of Aridol and will expand insurance coverage in the future for any product candidates which are granted regulatory marketing authorization. Having regard to the good safety profile of Aridol and Bronchitol, the varied use of mannitol in humans, the number of clinical trials undertaken to date without a material claim being made against us, we consider that our liability insurance is reasonable for our current activities. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that we consider reasonable or that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise and the claim for damages could be substantial. If we are not able to obtain adequate coverage at a reasonable cost, the commercialization of our products may be delayed or severely compromised. If there is a claim made against us or some other problem that is attributable to our products or product candidates, our ordinary share and ADS prices may be negatively affected. Even if we were ultimately successful in product liability litigation, the litigation would consume substantial amounts of our financial and managerial resources and may create adverse publicity, all of which would impair our ability to generate sales of the product the subject of the litigation as well as our other potential products. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property and License Arrangements Aridol and Bronchitol are based in part on intellectual property rights we license from others, and any termination of those licenses could seriously harm our business as the loss of any rights to market key products would seriously harm our operating results. We have an exclusive worldwide license from Sydney South West Area Health Service to develop and commercialize certain intellectual property relating to the use of mannitol, the component part of both Aridol and Bronchitol, to induce sputum and promote airway clearance and also in the use as a test of airway function and susceptibility to asthma. We also have an exclusive license from ANU Enterprises Pty Ltd to develop and commercialize intellectual property relating to the treatment of inflammatory or immune-mediated conditions in patients by administering a phosphosugar. Both of these license agreements impose payment and other material obligations on us. If our agreement with Sydney South West Area Health Service were terminated, then we would have no further rights to develop and commercialize Aridol and Bronchitol which would seriously harm our business. Third parties may own or control patents or patent applications that we may be required to license to commercialize our product candidates, that we may infringe, or that could result in litigation that would be costly and time consuming. Our ability to commercialize Aridol and Bronchitol and our other product candidates depends upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell these products without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. A number of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities and research institutions have or may be granted patents that cover technologies similar to the technologies owned by or licensed to us. We may choose to seek, or be required to seek, licenses under third-party patents, which would likely require the payment of license fees or royalties or both. A license may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may also be unaware of existing patents or other proprietary rights of third parties that may be infringed by Aridol and Bronchitol or our other product candidates. As patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be other currently pending applications which may later result in issued patents that are infringed by Aridol and Bronchitol or our other product candidates. There has been substantial litigation and other proceedings regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Defending ourselves against third-party claims, including litigation in particular, would be costly and time consuming and would divert management’s attention from our —19— Table of Contents business, which could lead to delays in our development or commercialization efforts. If third parties are successful in their claims, we might have to pay substantial damages or take other actions that are adverse to our business. As a result of intellectual property infringement claims, or to avoid potential claims, we might be: • prohibited from selling or licensing any product candidate that we may develop unless the patent holder licenses the patent to us, which it is not required to do; • required to expend considerable amounts of money in defending the claim; • required to pay substantial royalties or grant a cross license to our patents to another patent holder; • required to pay substantial monetary damages; or • required to redesign the formulation of a product so it does not infringe, which may not be possible or could require substantial funds and time. We may also be forced to bring an infringement action if we believe that a third party is infringing our protected intellectual property. Any such litigation will be costly, time consuming and divert management’s attention, and the outcome of any such litigation may not be favorable to us. Our intellectual property rights may not preclude competitors from developing competing products and our business may suffer. If we are not able to protect our proprietary technology, trade secrets and know-how, our competitors may use our intellectual property to develop competing products. Our patents, including our licensed patents relating to the use and manufacture of Aridol and Bronchitol, may not be sufficient to prevent others from competing with us or using similar technologies. Most of our patents covering Aridol and Bronchitol expire in 2015. Therefore, we will not be able to depend on these patents past these relevant dates to exclude competitors from developing generic versions of Aridol and Bronchitol. Our issued patents and those that we may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing related products or the term of patent protection that we may have for our product candidates. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could harm our competitive position and seriously harm our business. Our trade secrets relating to our product candidates and the manufacture of our product candidates may become known or independently discovered or competitors may develop alternatives. We disclose confidential information and trade secrets from time to time provided that the recipient executes a non-disclosure agreement or otherwise owes us obligations of confidentiality. Confidentiality agreements may be breached and we may have no effective remedy for such a breach. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Failure to obtain or maintain confidential information and trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. If we fail to enforce adequately or defend our intellectual property rights our business may be harmed. Our commercial success depends, to a large extent, on obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection for our products, the methods used to manufacture those products and the methods for treating patients using those products. A key tool in protecting our products and our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties is the extent that valid and enforceable patents or trade secrets cover them. Our ability to obtain patents is uncertain and there is a risk that we may not be able to secure and maintain patents which we require to defend our intellectual property position. Patents provide only limited protections and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Some countries in which we may sell our product candidates or license our intellectual property may fail to protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the protection that may be afforded in the U.S. or Australia. Some legal principles remain unresolved and there has not been a consistent policy regarding the breadth or interpretation of claims allowed in patents in the U.S., the E.U., Australia or elsewhere. In addition, the specific content of patents and patent applications that are necessary to support and interpret patent claims is highly uncertain due to the complex nature of the relevant legal, scientific and factual issues. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S., the E.U. or elsewhere may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. —20— Table of Contents Even if patents are issued, those patents can be challenged by our competitors who can argue such patents are invalid. Patents also will not protect our products if competitors devise ways of making these product candidates without legally infringing our patents. The U.S. Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations and policies and equivalents in other jurisdictions provide incentives to manufacturers to challenge patent validity or create modified, noninfringing versions of a drug in order to facilitate the approval of abbreviated new drug applications for generic substitutes. Proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how are also very important to our business. We rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we do not believe that patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. Our employees, consultants, contractors, outside scientific collaborators and other advisors may unintentionally or willfully disclose our confidential information to competitors, and confidentiality agreements may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. Failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. To date, we are not aware of any unintentional or willful disclosure of any of our material confidential information or any unauthorized use of our confidential information and we have not been required to seek remedy for any such unauthorized disclosure or use. Risks Relating to Resources If we fail to attract and keep senior management and key scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize our product candidates. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management, clinical and scientific personnel, manufacturing personnel, sales and marketing personnel and on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with clinicians, scientists and leading academic and health institutions, including in particular the Sydney South West Area Health Service. The loss of services of one or more of our members of key management could delay or compromise the successful completion of our clinical trials or the commercialization of Aridol and Bronchitol and our other product candidates. We enter into employment agreements with each of our employees, including each member of our key management. Each of our employees agree to a specific period of notice that they or we must give in order to terminate their employment. Employees can terminate their employment by giving between one to three months notice (as set out in the relevant employee’s employment agreement). In the near term we will need to continue to attract and retain manufacturing personnel and sales and marketing personnel and effectively integrate them into our organization to coincide with the expected growth of commercial sales of Aridol in Australia, Europe and in other jurisdictions. If we fail to attract or effectively integrate new personnel and consultants into our organization and create effective working relationships among them and other members of management, the future development and commercialization of Aridol and our other product candidates may suffer, harming future regulatory approvals, sales of our products and our results of operations. There is significant competition from other companies and research and academic institutions for qualified personnel in the areas of our activities. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. The addition of new employees and the loss of key employees, particularly in key positions, can be disruptive and may also cause the future development and commercialization of our product candidates to suffer, harming future regulatory approvals, sales of our products and our results of operations. We do not currently carry “key person” insurance on the lives of members of senior management. We consider that at this stage of our development it is reasonable not to carry any key person insurance. We will need to significantly increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. We are currently a small company with 68 employees and full time contractors as of June 30, 2007. In order to continue our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates, manufacture commercial quantities of —21— Table of Contents our products and market and sell products, we will need to increase our operations, including expanding our employee base. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our products and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage any future growth effectively. To that end, we must be able to: • manage our preclinical studies and clinical trials effectively; • undertake and manage the manufacturing of product effectively; • undertake and manage sales and marketing effectively; • integrate current and additional management, administrative, financial and sales and marketing personnel; • develop our administrative, accounting and management information systems and controls; and • hire and train additional qualified personnel. The acquisition or licensing of other products or product candidates may put a strain on our operations and will likely require us to seek additional financing. One of our strategies is to develop and license or acquire complementary products or product candidates. We have no present agreement regarding any new material licensing or acquisitions. However, if we do undertake any licensing or acquisitions, the process of undertaking the licensing or acquisitions and integrating a licensed or acquired product or product candidate into our business may put a strain on our operations, including diversion of personnel and financial resources and diversion of management’s attention. In addition, any acquisition would give rise to potentially significant additional operating costs which would likely require us to seek additional financing. Future acquisitions could result in additional issuances of equity securities that would dilute the ownership of existing shareholders and holders of our ADSs. Future acquisitions could also result in us incurring debt, contingent liabilities or the amortization of expenses related to other intangible assets, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. Risks Relating to Takeovers Our constitution may discourage attempts by shareholders to make a proportional takeover for us and could restrict the ability for shareholders to obtain a premium from such a transaction. Provisions of our constitution contain a proportional takeover provision which provides that if a person makes a proportional takeover offer for less than all of the share capital in us, shareholders are entitled to vote to determine whether the proportional takeover offer may proceed. A person may wish to make a proportional takeover offer for a number of reasons, including, if they wish to increase their control of us and/or influence the composition of the board of directors. Arguably, the proportional takeover provisions in our constitution make it more difficult to achieve a proportional takeover and therefore may discourage proportional takeover offers and make it more difficult for a person to gain proportional control of us and could restrict the ability for shareholders to obtain a premium from such a transaction. The proportional takeover provisions in our constitution terminate and must be renewed every three years. At our annual general meeting of shareholders held on 26 October 2006, our shareholders approved the extension of the proportional takeover provision for a further three years. Australian takeovers laws may discourage takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our shares. We are incorporated in Australia and are subject to the takeovers laws of Australia. Among other things, we are subject to the Corporations Act 2001 (Commonwealth of Australia), or Corporations Act. Subject to a range of exceptions, the Corporations Act prohibits the acquisition of a direct or indirect interest in our issued voting shares (including through the acquisition of ADSs) if the acquisition of that interest will lead to a person’s or someone else’s voting power in us increasing from 20% or below to more than 20%, or increasing from a starting point that is above 20% and below 90%. Exceptions to the general prohibition include circumstances where the person makes a formal takeover bid for us, if the person obtains shareholder approval for the acquisition or if the person acquires less than 3% of the voting power of us in any rolling six month period. Australian takeovers laws may discourage —22— Table of Contents takeover offers being made for us or may discourage the acquisition of large numbers of our shares. This may have the ancillary effect of entrenching our board of directors and may deprive or limit strategic opportunities of our shareholders and ADS holders to sell their shares and may restrict the ability of our shareholders and ADS holders to obtain a premium from such transactions. See Item 10B - “Change of Control.” Risks Related to our ADSs or Ordinary Shares The price of our ordinary shares is highly volatile and could decline significantly. The market price of our ordinary shares historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations over short periods of time. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us, to changes in analysts’ recommendations and earnings estimates, to arbitrage between our Australian quoted shares and our ADSs, to changes in exchange rates, or to factors affecting the biopharmaceutical industry or the securities markets in general. For example, from the initial quotation of our ordinary shares on the Australian Securities Exchange on November 10, 2003 until November 9, 2007, the closing price per share of our ordinary shares ranged from a low of A$0.34 on November 27, 2003 to a high of A$4.53 on November 1, 2007. We may experience a material decline in the market price of our shares, regardless of our operating performance. Therefore, a holder of our ordinary shares or ADSs may not be able to sell those ordinary shares or ADSs at or above the price paid by such holder for such shares or ADSs. Price declines in our ordinary shares or ADSs could result from a variety of factors, including many outside our control. These factors include: • adverse or inconclusive results or delays in our clinical trial programs; • unforeseen safety issues or adverse side effects resulting from the clinical trials or the commercial use of any of our products; • regulatory actions in respect of any of our products or the products of any of our competitors; • failure of any of our products, such as Aridol, of any of our product candidates, such as Bronchitol (if approved), to achieve commercial success; • announcements of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • market conditions, including market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • increases in our costs or decreases in our revenues due to unfavorable movements in foreign currency exchange rates; • developments or litigation concerning patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; • changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts; • rumors relating to us or our competitors; • additions or departures of key personnel; • changes in third-party reimbursement policies; and • developments concerning current or future strategic alliances or acquisitions. Class action litigation has been brought in the past against companies which have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often extremely expensive and diverts management’s attention and company’s resources. —23— Table of Contents In addition, since the initial listing of our ADSs on Nasdaq Global Market trading volume in our ADSs has been limited and a significant portion of the ownership of our ADSs is concentrated with a small number of holders. The limited trading volume may adversely affect the prices at which the ADSs may be bought or sold. There can be no assurance that a more active trading market in our ADSs will develop in the U.S. Rights as a holder of ordinary shares are governed by Australian law and our Constitution and differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. Holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs may have difficulty in effecting service of process in the U.S. or enforcing judgments obtained in the U.S. We are a public company incorporated under the laws of Australia. Therefore, the rights of holders of our ordinary shares are governed by Australian law and our Constitution. These rights differ from the typical rights of shareholders in U.S. corporations. The rights of holders of ADSs are affected by Australian law and our Constitution but are governed by U.S. law. Circumstances that under U.S. law may entitle a shareholder in a U.S. company to claim damages may also give rise to a cause of action under Australian law entitling a shareholder in an Australian company to claim damages. However, this will not always be the case. Holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs may have difficulties enforcing, in actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the U.S., liabilities under U.S. securities laws. In particular, if such a holder sought to bring proceedings in Australia based on U.S. securities laws, the Australian court might consider: • that it did not have jurisdiction; and/or • that it was not an appropriate forum for such proceedings; and/or • that, applying Australian conflict of laws rule, U.S. law (including U.S. securities laws) did not apply to the relationship between holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs and us or our directors and officers; and/or • that the U.S. securities laws were of a public or penal nature and should not be enforced by the Australian court. All but one of our directors and executive officers are residents of countries other than the U.S. Furthermore, all or a substantial portion of their assets and our assets are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be very difficult or may not be possible for a holder of our ordinary shares or ADSs to: • effect service of process within the U.S. upon any of our directors and executive officers or on us; • enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained against any of our directors and executive officers or us in the U.S. courts in any action, including actions under the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; • enforce in U.S. courts judgments obtained against any of our directors and senior management or us in courts of jurisdictions outside the United States in any action, including actions under the civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; or • bring an original action in an Australian court to enforce liabilities against any of our directors and executive officers or us based upon U.S. securities laws. Holders of our ordinary shares and ADSs may also have difficulties enforcing in courts outside the U.S. judgments obtained in the U.S. courts against any of our directors and executive officers or us, including actions under the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws. Shares or ADSs eligible for public sale could adversely affect the price of our ordinary shares. The market price for our shares or ADSs could decline as a result of sales by our existing shareholders or management of ordinary shares or the perceptions that these sales could occur. These sales may also make it difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price when we deem appropriate. —24— Table of Contents Currency fluctuations may adversely affect the price of the ADSs relative to the price of our ordinary shares. The price of our ordinary shares is quoted in Australian dollars and the price of our ADSs is quoted in U.S. dollars. Movements in the Australian dollar/U.S. dollar exchange rate may adversely affect the U.S. dollar price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the price of our ordinary shares. The exchange rates between the Australian dollar and the U.S. dollar have fluctuated. If the value of the Australian dollar appreciates against the U.S. dollar, this may positively affect the U.S. dollar price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar equivalent of the price of our ordinary shares, even if the price of our ordinary shares in Australian dollars increases or remains unchanged. However, if the Australian dollar weakens against the U.S. dollar, the U.S. dollar price of the ADSs could decline, even if the price of our ordinary shares in Australian dollars increases or remains unchanged. If dividends are payable, we will likely calculate and pay any cash dividends in Australian dollars and, as a result, exchange rate movements will affect the U.S. dollar amount of any dividends holders of our ADSs will receive from the depositary (as defined below in “Description of American Depositary Shares”). The potential impact that currency fluctuations may have on our earnings is set out in the risk factor “Risks Related to Our Business – Currency fluctuations may expose us to increased costs and revenue decreases.” We may become a passive foreign investment company, or a PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which could result in negative tax consequences to the holders of our ordinary shares or ADSs. Based on an analysis of our assets and gross income, we believe that we may be a PFIC for our current tax year, that we have not been a PFIC for our tax year ended June 30, 2007, and that we have been a PFIC for our tax years ended June 30, 2006, June 30, 2005 and June 30, 2004. We have not conducted a PFIC analysis for any tax year prior to our tax year ended June 30, 2004. The determination of whether we are, or at any time in the past have been, a PFIC is made annually on a taxable year basis and depends on factors such as the composition of our income and the value of our assets. If we are classified as a PFIC in any taxable year that a “U.S. Holder” (as defined in the section entitled “Taxation”) owns our ordinary shares or ADSs, we generally will continue to be treated as a PFIC for that U.S. Holder in all succeeding years. Such U.S. Holder would be subject to additional taxes on any “excess distributions” received from us and any gain realized from the sale or other disposition of our ordinary shares or ADSs. We urge U.S. investors to consult their own tax advisors about the application of the PFIC rules and certain elections that may help to minimize adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences in their particular circumstances. For a further discussion of the U.S. federal income tax consequences of investing in a PFIC, see the discussion below under the section entitled Item 10D - “Taxation.” We have never paid a dividend and we do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future which means that holders of shares and ADSs may not receive any return on their investment from dividends. To date, we have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary shares and currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. Dividends may only be paid out of our profits. Payment of cash dividends, if any, in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors or, if our directors do not exercise their power to issue dividends, our shareholders in a general meeting may. Our holders of shares and ADSs may not receive any return on their investment from dividends. Our ADR holders are not shareholders and do not have shareholder rights. The Bank of New York, as depositary, executes and delivers our American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, on our behalf. Each ADR is a certificate evidencing a specific number of American Depositary Shares, also referred to as ADSs. Our ADR holders will not be treated as shareholders and do not have the rights of shareholders. The depositary will be the holder of the shares underlying our ADRs. Holders of our ADRs will have ADR holder rights. A deposit agreement among us, the depositary and our ADR holders, and the beneficial owners of ADRs, sets out ADR holder rights as well as the rights and obligations of the depositary. New York law governs the deposit agreement and the ADRs. Our ADR holders do not have the same voting rights as our shareholders. Shareholders are entitled to our notices of general meetings and to attend and vote at our general meetings of shareholders. At a general meeting, every shareholder present (in person or by proxy, attorney or representative) and entitled to vote has one vote on a show of hands. Every shareholder present (in person or by proxy, attorney or representative) and entitled to vote has one vote per fully paid ordinary share on a poll. This is subject to any other rights or restrictions which may be —25— Table of Contents attached to any shares. Our ADR holders may instruct the depositary to vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADRs, but only if we ask the depositary to ask for their instructions. If we do not ask the depositary to ask for the instructions, our ADR holders are not entitled to receive our notices of general meeting or instruct the depositary how to vote. Our ADR holders will not be entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting unless they withdraw the ordinary shares. However, our ADR holders may not know about the meeting enough in advance to withdraw the shares. If we ask for our ADR holders’ instructions, the depositary will notify our ADR holders of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials and form of notice to them. The depositary will try, as far as practical, subject to Australian law and the provisions of the depositary agreement, to vote the shares as our ADR holders instruct. The depositary will not vote or attempt to exercise the right to vote other than in accordance with the instructions of the ADR holders. We cannot assure our ADR holders that they will receive the voting materials in time to ensure that they can instruct the depositary to vote their shares. In addition, there may be other circumstances in which our ADR holders may not be able to exercise voting rights. Our ADR holders do not have the same rights to receive dividends or other distributions as our shareholders. Subject to any special rights or restrictions attached to a share, the directors may determine that a dividend will be payable on a share and fix the amount, the time for payment and the method for payment (although we have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our ordinary stock and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future). Dividends may be paid on shares of one class but not another and at different rates for different classes. Dividends and other distributions payable to our shareholders with respect to our ordinary shares generally will be payable directly to them. Any dividends or distributions payable with respect to ordinary shares will be paid to the depositary, which has agreed to pay to our ADR holders the cash dividends or other distributions it or the custodian receives on shares or other deposited securities, after deducting its fees and expenses. Our ADR holders will receive these distributions in proportion to the number of shares their ADSs represent. In addition, there may be certain circumstances in which the depositary may not pay to our ADR holders amounts distributed by us as a dividend or distribution. There are circumstances where it may be unlawful or impractical to make distributions to the holders of our ADRs. The deposit agreement with the depositary allows the depositary to distribute the foreign currency only to those ADR holders to whom it is possible to do so. If a distribution is payable by us in Australian dollars, the depositary will hold the foreign currency it cannot convert for the account of the ADR holders who have not been paid. It will not invest the foreign currency and it will not be liable for any interest. If the exchange rates fluctuate during a time when the depositary cannot convert the foreign currency, our ADR holders may lose some of the value of the distribution. The depositary is not responsible if it decides that it is unlawful or impractical to make a distribution available to any ADR holders. This means that our ADR holders may not receive the distributions we make on our shares or any value for them if it is illegal or impractical for us or the depositary to make them available to them. We will be exposed to risks relating to evaluations of controls required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and related regulations implemented by the SEC, have substantially increased legal and financial compliance costs. We expect that our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, will involve significant, and potentially increasing, costs. In particular, we will be evaluating our internal controls systems to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls. We will be performing the system and process evaluation and testing (and any necessary remediation) required to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner or adequately, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC. Any action of this type could adversely affect our financial results, investors’ confidence in our company and our ability to access capital markets, and could cause our share price and the price of our ADSs to decline. —26— Table of Contents 