Item 1A. Risk Factors The following are the material risks that may affect us. Any of the risks discussed herein can materially adversely affect our business, liquidity, operations, industry or financial position or our future financial performance. Risks Related to Our Debt and the Recent Economic Crisis We have substantial financial leverage. As of December 31, 2013, we had consolidated debt of approximately $188.0 million, which is comprised of approximately $160.4 million secured debt, and approximately $27.6 million unsecured debt related to the 8.0% senior unsecured notes due September 30, 2018 (the “Notes” or, individually, a “Note”). Historically, we have incurred debt for acquisitions and to fund our renovation, redevelopment and rebranding programs. Limitations upon our access to additional debt could adversely affect our ability to fund these programs or acquire hotels in the future. Our financial leverage could negatively affect our business and financial results, including the following: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, working capital, capital expenditures, future business opportunities, paying dividends or other purposes; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, renovation, redevelopment and rebranding plans, acquisitions, debt service requirements and other purposes; • adversely affect our ability to satisfy our financial obligations, including those related to the Notes; • limit our ability to refinance existing debt; • require us to agree to additional restrictions and limitations on our business operations and capital structure to obtain financing; • force us to dispose of one or more of our properties, possibly on unfavorable terms; • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, and to interest rate fluctuations; • force us to issue additional equity, possibly on terms unfavorable to existing shareholders; • limit our flexibility to make, or react to, changes in our business and our industry; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage, compared to our competitors that have less debt. We must comply with financial covenants in our mortgage loan agreements and in the indenture. Our mortgage loan agreements and indenture contain various financial covenants. Failure to comply with these financial covenants could result from, among other things, changes in the local competitive environment, general economic conditions and disruption caused by renovation activity or major weather disturbances. If we violate the financial covenants contained in our mortgage loan agreements, we may attempt to negotiate waivers of the violations or amend the terms of the applicable mortgage loan agreement with the lender; however, we can make no assurance that we would be successful in any such negotiation or that, if successful in obtaining waivers or amendments, such waivers or amendments would be on attractive terms. Some mortgage loan agreements provide alternate cure provisions which may allow us to otherwise comply with the financial covenants by obtaining an appraisal of the hotel, prepaying a portion of the outstanding indebtedness or by providing cash collateral until such time as the financial covenants are met by the collateralized property without consideration of the cash collateral. Alternate cure provisions which include prepaying a portion of the outstanding indebtedness or providing cash collateral may have a material impact on our liquidity. 15 Table of Contents If we violate the financial covenants in the indenture, we may attempt to cure that violation by engaging in one or more transactions pursuant to the cure provision in the indenture. If we are unable to negotiate a waiver or amendment or satisfy alternate cure provisions, if any, or unable to meet any alternate cure requirements and a default were to occur, we would possibly have to refinance the debt through debt financing, private or public offerings of debt securities, additional equity financing, or by disposing of an asset. We are uncertain whether we will be able to refinance these obligations or if refinancing terms will be favorable. We have debt obligations maturing in 2014 and 2015, and if we are not successful in extending the term of this indebtedness or in refinancing this debt on acceptable economic terms or at all, our overall financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We will be required to seek additional capital in the near future to refinance or replace existing long-term mortgage debt that is maturing. Based on current market conditions, the availability of financing is, and may continue to be, limited. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain future financings on acceptable terms, if at all. On June 28, 2013, we entered into an agreement with TowneBank to extend the maturity of the mortgage on the Crowne Plaza Hampton Marina until June 30, 2014. Under the terms of the extension, we made a principal payment of approximately $1.1 million to reduce the principal balance on the loan to $6.0 million. We may extend the maturity date of such mortgage until June 2015, subject to certain terms and conditions. In July 2015, the mortgage on our Crowne Plaza Jacksonville Riverfront matures, but we may extend such mortgage until July 2016 pursuant to certain terms and conditions. The total aggregate amount of our debt obligations maturing in 2014 is approximately $34.6 million, which represents approximately 18.4% of our total debt obligations. In August 2014, the mortgage on the Hilton Philadelphia Airport matures, but we may extend such mortgage until March 2017 pursuant to certain terms and conditions. We will need to, and plan to, renew, replace or extend our long-term indebtedness prior to their respective maturity dates. If we are unable to extend these loans, we may be required to repay the outstanding principal amount at maturity or a portion of such indebtedness upon refinance. If we do not have sufficient funds to repay any portion of the indebtedness, it may be necessary to raise capital through debt financing, private or public offerings of debt securities or equity financings. We are uncertain whether we will be able to refinance these obligations or if refinancing terms will be favorable. If, at the time of any refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors result in higher interest rates on refinancing, increases in interest expense would lower our cash flow, and, consequently, cash available to meet our financial obligations. If we are unable to obtain alternative or additional financing arrangements in the future, or if we cannot obtain financing on acceptable terms, we may not be able to execute our business strategies or we may be forced to dispose of hotel properties on disadvantageous terms, potentially resulting in losses and potentially reducing cash flow from operating activities if the sale proceeds in excess of the amount required to satisfy the indebtedness could not be reinvested in equally profitable real property investments. Moreover, the terms of any additional financing may restrict our financial flexibility, including the debt we may incur in the future, or may restrict our ability to manage our business as we had intended. To the extent we cannot repay our outstanding debt, we risk losing some or all of our hotel properties to foreclosure and we could be required to invoke insolvency proceedings including, but not limited to, commencing a voluntary case under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. For tax purposes, a foreclosure of any of our hotels would be treated as a sale of the hotel for a purchase price equal to the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage. If the outstanding balance of the debt secured by the mortgage exceeds our tax basis in the hotel, we would recognize taxable income on foreclosure, but we would not receive any cash proceeds, which could hinder the Company’s ability to meet the REIT distribution requirements imposed by the Code. In addition, we may give full or partial guarantees to lenders of mortgage debt 16 Table of Contents on behalf of the entities that own our hotels. When we give a guarantee on behalf of an entity that owns one of our hotels, we will be responsible to the lender for satisfaction of the debt if it is not paid by such entity. Our borrowing costs are sensitive to fluctuations in interest rates. While we have reduced the amount of floating rate debt over the last year, higher interest rates could increase our debt service requirements and interest expense. Currently, our floating rate debt is limited to the mortgage on the Crowne Plaza Hampton Marina, the mortgage on the Hilton Philadelphia Airport, and the mortgage on the Crowne Plaza Jacksonville Riverfront. Each of these mortgages bears interest at rates tied to the 30-day London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) and provide for minimum rates of interest. To the extent that increases in the LIBOR rate of interest cause the interest on the mortgages to exceed the minimum rates of interest, we are exposed to rising interest rates. Our mortgage on the Crowne Plaza Hampton Marina matures within the next six months. Should we obtain new debt financing or refinance existing indebtedness, we may increase the amount of floating rate debt that currently exists. In addition, adverse economic conditions could also cause the terms on which we borrow to be unfavorable. Our shares may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market if the closing price for our shares is not maintained at $1.00 per share or higher. NASDAQ imposes, among other requirements, listing maintenance standards as well as minimum bid and public float requirements. The price of our shares must trade at or above $1.00 to comply with NASDAQ’s minimum bid requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. If the closing price of our shares fails to meet NASDAQ’s minimum bid price requirement for 30 consecutive days, or if we otherwise fail to meet all other applicable requirements of the NASDAQ Global Market, NASDAQ may make a determination to delist our shares of common stock. Any such delisting could have adverse effects by, among other things: • Reducing the trading liquidity and market price of the Company’s common stock; • Reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire the Company’s common stock, thereby restricting our ability to obtain equity financing; • Causing an event of default under certain of our debt agreements, which could serve to accelerate the indebtedness; and • Reducing our ability to retain, attract and motivate directors, officers and employees. Risks Related to Our Business and Properties If the economy falls back into a recessionary period or fails to maintain positive growth, our operating performance and financial results may be harmed by declines in occupancy, average daily room rates and/or other operating revenues. The performance of the lodging industry and the general economy historically have been closely linked. In an economic downturn, business and leisure travelers may seek to reduce costs by limiting travel and/or reducing costs on their trips. Our hotels, which are all full-service hotels, may be more susceptible to a decrease in revenue, as compared to hotels in other categories that have lower room rates. A decrease in demand for hotel stays and hotel services will negatively affect our operating revenues, which will lower our cash flow and may affect our ability to make distributions to stockholders and to maintain compliance with our loan obligations. We incurred a net loss of approximately $3.8 million for our 2013 fiscal year. A renewed economic downturn may produce continued losses. A weakening of the economy may adversely and materially affect our industry, business and results of operations and we cannot predict the likelihood, severity or duration of any such 17 Table of Contents downturn. Moreover, reduced revenues as a result of a weakening economy may also reduce our working capital and impact our long-term business strategy. We own a limited number of hotels and significant adverse changes at one hotel could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and may limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders. As of December 31, 2013, our portfolio consisted of ten wholly-owned properties and one joint venture property with a total of 2,683 rooms. Significant adverse changes in the operations of any one hotel could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and, accordingly, on our ability to make distributions to stockholders. We are subject to risks of increased hotel operating expenses and decreased hotel revenues. Our leases with our TRS Lessee provide for the payment of rent based in part on gross revenues from our hotels. Our TRS Lessee is subject to hotel operating risks including decreased hotel revenues and increased hotel operating expenses, including but not limited to the following: • wage and benefit costs; • repair and maintenance expenses; • energy costs; • property taxes; • insurance costs; and • other operating expenses. Any increases in these operating expenses can have a significant adverse impact on our TRS Lessee’s ability to pay rent and other operating expenses and, consequently, our earnings and cash flow. In keeping with our investment strategy, we may acquire, renovate and/or re-brand hotels in new or existing geographic markets as part of our repositioning strategy. Unanticipated expenses and insufficient demand for newly repositioned hotels could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to comply with covenants in the indenture and to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders. We have in the past, and may in the future, develop or acquire hotels in geographic areas in which our management may have little or no operating experience. Additionally, those properties may also be renovated and re-branded as part of a repositioning strategy. Potential customers may not be familiar with our newly renovated hotel or be aware of the brand change. As a result, we may have to incur costs relating to the opening, operation and promotion of those new hotel properties that are substantially greater than those incurred in other geographic areas. These hotels may attract fewer customers than expected and we may choose to increase spending on advertising and marketing to promote the hotel and increase customer demand. Unanticipated expenses and insufficient demand at new hotel properties, therefore, could adversely affect our financial performance and our ability to comply with covenants in the indenture and to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders. We do not have the authority to require any hotel to be operated in a particular manner or to govern any particular aspect of the daily operations of any hotel and as a result, our returns are dependent on the management of our hotels by MHI Hotels Services. Since federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating or managing hotels, we do not operate or manage our hotels. Instead, we lease all of our hotels to subsidiaries of our TRS Lessee, and our TRS Lessee retains third-party managers to operate our hotels pursuant to management agreements. 18 Table of Contents Under the terms of our management agreements with MHI Hotels Services and the REIT qualification rules, our ability to participate in operating decisions regarding the hotels is limited. We will depend on MHI Hotels Services to operate our hotels as provided in the management agreements. We do not have the authority to require any hotel to be operated in a particular manner or to govern any particular aspect of the daily operations of any hotel. Thus, even if we believe our hotels are being operated inefficiently or in a manner that does not result in satisfactory occupancy rates, RevPAR, and average daily rates (“ADR”), we may not be able to force MHI Hotels Services to change its method of operating our hotels. Additionally, in the event that we need to replace MHI Hotels Services or any other management companies in the future, we may be required by the terms of the applicable management agreement to pay substantial termination fees and may experience significant disruptions at the affected hotels. Our ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders is subject to fluctuations in our financial performance, operating results and capital improvement requirements. As a REIT, the Company is required to distribute, as “qualifying distributions”, at least 90.0% of its REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding its net capital gains, and reduced by certain non-cash items), each year to the Company’s stockholders. However, several factors may make us unable to declare or pay distributions to the Company’s stockholders, including poor operating results and financial performance or unanticipated capital improvements to our hotels, including capital improvements that may be required by our franchisors. We lease all of our hotels to our TRS Lessee. Our TRS Lessee is subject to hotel operating risks, including risks of sustaining operating losses after payment of hotel operating expenses, including management fees. Among the factors which could cause our TRS Lessee to fail to make required rent payments are reduced net operating profits or operating losses, increased debt service requirements and capital expenditures at our hotels, including capital expenditures required by the franchisors of our hotels. Among the factors that could reduce the net operating profits of our TRS Lessee are decreases in hotel revenues and increases in hotel operating expenses. Hotel revenue can decrease for a number of reasons, including increased competition from a new supply of hotel rooms and decreased demand for hotel rooms. These factors can reduce both occupancy and room rates at our hotels. The amount of any dividend distributions to holders of the Company’s common stock is in the sole discretion of the Company’s board of directors, which will consider, among other factors, our financial performance, debt service obligations, debt covenants and capital expenditure requirements. We cannot assure you that we will continue to generate sufficient cash to fund distributions. Geographic concentration of our hotels makes our business vulnerable to economic downturns in the Mid-Atlantic and Southern United States. Our hotels are located in the Mid-Atlantic and Southern United States. As a result, economic conditions in the Mid-Atlantic and Southern United States significantly affect our revenues and the value of our hotels to a greater extent than if we had a more geographically diversified portfolio. Business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other similar factors that may adversely affect the economic climate in these areas could have a significant adverse impact on our business. Any resulting oversupply or reduced demand for hotels in the Mid-Atlantic and Southern United States and in our markets in particular would therefore have a disproportionate negative impact on our revenues and limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders. Hedging against interest rate exposure may adversely affect us and our hedges may fail to protect us from the losses that the hedges were designed to offset. Subject to maintaining the Company’s qualification as a REIT, we may continue to manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements, such as cap agreements and swap agreements. 19 Table of Contents These agreements involve the risks that these arrangements may fail to protect or adversely affect us because, among other things: • interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • available interest rate hedges may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • the financial instruments we select may not have the effect of reducing our interest rate risk; • the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability; • the credit quality of the hedging counterparty owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and • the hedging counterparty owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay. As a result of any of the foregoing, our hedging transactions, which are intended to limit losses, may fail to protect us from the losses that the hedges were designed to offset and could have a material adverse effect on us. Our investment opportunities and growth prospects may be affected by competition for acquisitions. We compete for investment opportunities with other entities, some of which have substantially greater financial resources than we do. This competition may generally limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us, which may limit our ability to grow. This competition may also increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire new properties on attractive terms, or at all. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately determine our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, the Company’s stockholders could lose confidence in our financial results, which could harm our business and the value of the Company’s common shares. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to evaluate and report on our internal controls over financial reporting. Our internal controls and financial reporting are not subject to attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to the exemption provided to issuers that are not “large accelerated filers” or “accelerated filers” under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. While we have undertaken substantial work to comply with Section 404, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in maintaining adequate internal controls over our financial reporting and financial processes in the future. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Furthermore, as we grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective. If we or our independent auditors discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market value of the Company’s common shares. Additionally, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency would require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies and management may not be able to remediate any such material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in a timely manner. 20 Table of Contents Risks Related to Conflicts of Interest of Our Officers and Directors Conflicts of interest could result in our executive officers and certain of our directors acting in a manner other than in the Company’s stockholders’ best interest. Conflicts of interest relating to MHI Hotels Services, the entity that manages the properties, and the terms of its management agreements may lead to management decisions that are not in the stockholders’ best interest. Conflicts of interest relating to MHI Hotels Services may lead to management decisions that are not in the stockholders’ best interest. Certain of our officers and directors including Andrew M. Sims, our chairman and chief executive officer and Kim E. Sims, who currently serves on our board of directors, together own a substantial interest in MHI Hotels Services which manages our hotel properties. In addition, until December 2014, unless a majority of independent directors concludes otherwise, MHI Hotels Services has a right of first offer to manage hotels we acquire in the future, subject to certain exceptions, and receives substantial management fees based on the revenues and operating profit of our hotels. Our management agreements with MHI Hotels Services, including the financial terms thereof, were not negotiated on an arm’s-length basis and may be less favorable to us than we could have obtained from third parties. Our management agreements establish the terms of MHI Hotels Services’ management of our hotels. Under certain circumstances, if we terminate our master management agreement as to one of the hotels, we will be required to pay MHI Hotels Services a termination fee. If we were to terminate the master management agreement with respect to all covered hotels in connection with a sale of those hotels, and also terminate the management agreement with respect to the Crowne Plaza Houston Downtown Hotel in connection with a sale of the hotel, the aggregate termination fee would be approximately $2.7 million as of December 31, 2013. There is currently no termination fee for the termination of the management agreement for our Tampa property. As significant owners of MHI Hotels Services, which would receive any management and management termination fees payable by us under the management agreement, Andrew M. Sims and Kim E. Sims may influence our decisions to sell a hotel or acquire or develop a hotel when it is not in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders to do so. In addition, Andrew M. Sims will have conflicts of interest with respect to decisions to enforce provisions of the management agreement, including any termination thereof. There can be no assurance that provisions in our bylaws will always be successful in mitigating conflicts of interest. Under our bylaws, a committee consisting of only independent directors must approve any transaction between us and MHI Hotels Services or its affiliates or any interested director. However, there can be no assurance that these policies always will be successful in mitigating such conflicts, and decisions could be made that might not fully reflect the interests of all of the Company’s stockholders. Certain of our officers and directors hold units in our Operating Partnership and may seek to avoid adverse tax consequences, which could result from transactions that would otherwise benefit the Company’s stockholders. Holders of units in our Operating Partnership, including members of our management team, may suffer adverse tax consequences upon our sale or refinancing of certain properties. Therefore, holders of units, including Andrew M. Sims, Kim E. Sims, Edward S. Stein, and a trust controlled by Andrew M. Sims, Kim E. Sims and a former member of our board of directors, may have different objectives than holders of the Company’s common stock regarding the appropriate pricing and timing of a property’s sale, or the timing and amount of a property’s refinancing. These individuals, together with their affiliates, owned as of December 31, 2013, in the aggregate, approximately 9.6% of the outstanding units in our Operating Partnership. These individuals may influence us not to sell or refinance certain properties, even if such sale or refinancing might be financially advantageous to the Company’s stockholders, or they may influence us to enter into tax-deferred exchanges with the proceeds of such sales when such a reinvestment might not otherwise be in our best interest. 21 Table of Contents Contractual obligations require us to nominate affiliates of the Sims family as two of our directors. Pursuant to a strategic alliance agreement we entered into in December 2004, during the term of the agreement, which expires in December 2014, MHI Hotels Services has a contractual right to nominate one person for election as a director, to our board of directors, and, pursuant to his employment agreement with us, Andrew M. Sims has the right to be nominated as a director. These provisions in effect provide the Sims family and their affiliates the right to nominate two of our directors. As discussed herein, such persons have conflicts of interest with the Company. Our tax indemnification obligations, which were not the result of arm’s-length negotiations and which apply in the event that we sell certain properties, could subject us to liability, which we currently estimate to be approximately $4.6 million, and limit our operating flexibility and reduce our returns on our investments. If we dispose of certain of our hotels in taxable dispositions, we would be obligated to indemnify the original contributors (including their permitted transferees and persons who are taxable on the income of a contributor or permitted transferee) against certain tax consequences of the sale pursuant to the tax indemnity agreements, the terms of which were not the result of arm’s-length negotiations. These original contributors include Andrew M. Sims, the Company’s chairman and chief executive officer, William J. Zaiser, the Company’s former executive vice president and chief financial officer, Kim E. Sims, a current Company director, and Christopher L. Sims, a former Company director. We have agreed to pay a certain amount of a contributor’s tax liability with respect to gains allocated to such contributor under Section 704(c) of the Code if we dispose of a property contributed by such contributor in a taxable transaction during a “protected period,” which continues until the earlier of: • 10 years after the contribution of such property; or • the date on which the contributor no longer owns, in the aggregate, at least 25.0% of the units we issued to the contributor at the time of its contribution of property to our Operating Partnership. This tax indemnity will be equal to a certain amount of the federal and state income tax liability a contributor incurs with respect to the gain allocated to such contributor upon such sale based on a sliding scale percentage. Specifically, we are responsible for indemnifying the contributors for 100.0% of their tax liability during the first five years after contribution and for 50.0% of their tax liability during the sixth year, and will indemnify them for: 40.0%, during the seventh year; 30.0%, during the eighth year; 20.0%, during the ninth year; and 10.0%, during the tenth year. The terms of the tax indemnity agreements also require us to gross up the tax indemnity payment for the amount of income taxes due as a result of the tax indemnity payment. As over nine years have elapsed since the properties were contributed, if we were to sell, during 2014 in a taxable transaction, the five hotels that were contributed to us in the Company’s initial public offering in exchange for partnership units in the Operating Partnership (including our property in Jeffersonville, Indiana which we substituted under the tax indemnity and related agreements for the property in Williamsburg, Virginia as part of an exchange pursuant to Section 1031 of the Code) our estimated total tax indemnification obligation to our indemnified contributors, including the gross-up payment, would be approximately $4.6 million, which amount will decrease until the end of 2014 at which time the indemnification agreement expires. Our agreements with MHI Hotels Services and its affiliates, including the contribution agreements, management agreements, strategic alliance agreement, subleases, partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership and employment agreements, were not negotiated on an arms’ length basis and may be less favorable to us than we could have obtained from third parties. In connection with the Company’s initial public offering, we entered into various agreements with MHI Hotels Services and its affiliates, including contribution agreements, a master management agreement, a strategic alliance agreement, subleases, the partnership agreement of our Operating Partnership and employment agreements. In addition, we entered into separate management agreements with MHI Hotels Services relating to 22 Table of Contents our Tampa, Florida property and our joint venture for the Hollywood, Florida property. In November 2013, we assumed the existing management agreement with MHI Hotels Services for the management of our Houston, Texas property. The terms of all of these agreements were determined by our management team, who had conflicts of interest as described above and ownership interests in MHI Hotels Services and its affiliates. The terms of all of these agreements may be less favorable to us than we could have obtained from third parties. We may realize reduced revenue because our management company may experience conflicts of interest in connection with the management of its other properties. MHI Hotels Services may experience conflicts of interest in connection with the management of other properties located nearby in the same geographic market as our hotel properties. Currently, MHI Hotels Services manages a small city-center property in the same geographic market as one of our hotel properties and also manages another property in the same geographic market as a second property in our portfolio. The fees that MHI Hotels Services earns for managing our properties are largely fixed under our management agreements and may be less than the fees it earns for other properties it manages or may manage in the future. Because MHI Hotels Services oversees the marketing and solicitation of individual and group business, it may have a greater financial incentive to direct prospective guests and customers to properties that we do not own, which would have a negative impact on our revenue and our financial condition. Risks Related to the Lodging Industry Our ability to comply with the terms of the indenture, our ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders and the value of our hotels in general, may be adversely affected by factors in the lodging industry. Operating Risks Our hotel properties are subject to various operating risks common to the lodging industry, many of which are beyond our control, including the following: • competition from other hotel properties in our markets; • over-building of hotels in our markets, which adversely affects occupancy and revenues at our hotels; • dependence on business and commercial travelers and tourism; • increases in energy costs and other expenses affecting travel, which may affect travel patterns and reduce the number of business and commercial travelers and tourists; • increases in operating costs due to inflation and other factors, including increases in labor costs, that may not be offset by increased room rates; • changes in interest rates and in the availability, cost and terms of debt financing; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • adverse effects of international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; • adverse effects of a downturn in the lodging industry; and • risks generally associated with the ownership of hotel properties and real estate, as we discuss in detail below. These factors could reduce the net income of our TRS Lessee, which in turn could adversely affect the value of our hotels and our ability to comply with the terms of the indenture and to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders. 23 Table of Contents Competition for Acquisitions We may compete for investment opportunities with entities that may have substantially greater financial resources than we do. These entities generally may be able to accept more risk than we choose to prudently manage. This competition may generally limit the number of suitable investment opportunities offered to us. This competition may also increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire new properties on attractive terms. Seasonality of the Hotel Business The lodging industry is seasonal in nature, which can be expected to cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenues. Our quarterly earnings may be adversely affected by factors outside our control, including weather conditions and poor economic factors. As a result, we may have to enter into short-term borrowings in certain quarters in order to offset these fluctuations in revenues and to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders. Investment Concentration in Particular Segments of a Single Industry Our entire business is lodging-related. Therefore, a downturn in the lodging industry, in general, and the full-service, upscale and upper-upscale segments in which we operate, in particular, will have a material adverse effect on the value of our hotels, our financial condition and the extent to which cash may be available for distribution to the Company’s stockholders. Capital Expenditures Our hotel properties have an ongoing need for renovations and other capital improvements, including replacements, from time to time, of furniture, fixtures and equipment. The franchisors of our hotels also require us to make periodic capital improvements as a condition of keeping the franchise licenses. In addition, several of our mortgage lenders require that we set aside amounts for capital improvements to the secured properties on a monthly basis. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we spent approximately $4.9 million and approximately $2.9 million, respectively, on capital improvements to our hotels. Capital improvements and renovation projects may give rise to the following risks: • possible environmental problems; • construction cost overruns and delays; • a possible shortage of available cash to fund capital improvements and the related possibility that financing for these capital improvements may not be available to us on affordable terms; and • uncertainties as to market demand or a loss of market demand after capital improvements have begun. The costs of all these capital improvements as well as future capital improvements could adversely affect our financial condition and amounts available for distribution to the Company’s stockholders. Operating our hotels under franchise agreements could increase our operating costs and lower our net income. Our hotels operate under franchise agreements which subject us to risks in the event of negative publicity related to one of our franchisors. The maintenance of the franchise licenses for our hotels is subject to our franchisors’ operating standards and other terms and conditions. Our franchisors periodically inspect our hotels to ensure that we, our TRS Lessee, and the management company follow their standards. Failure by us, our TRS Lessee or the management 24 Table of Contents company to maintain these standards or other terms and conditions could result in a franchise license being canceled. If a franchise license terminates due to our failure to make required improvements or to otherwise comply with its terms, we may also be liable to the franchisor for a termination payment, which varies by franchisor and by hotel. As a condition of continuing a franchise license, a franchisor may require us to make capital expenditures, even if we do not believe the capital improvements are necessary or desirable or will result in an acceptable return on our investment. Nonetheless, we may risk losing a franchise license if we do not make franchisor-required capital expenditures. If a franchisor terminates the franchise license, we may try either to obtain a suitable replacement franchise license or to operate the hotel without a franchise license. The loss of a franchise license could significantly decrease the revenues at the hotel and reduce the underlying value of the hotel because of the loss of associated name recognition, marketing support and centralized reservation systems provided by the franchisor. A loss of a franchise license for one or more hotels could materially and adversely affect our revenues. This loss of revenues could, therefore, also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, our ability to comply with the terms of the indenture and reduce our cash available for distribution to stockholders. Restrictive covenants in certain of our franchise agreements contain provisions that may operate to limit our ability to sell or refinance our hotels, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Franchise agreements typically contain covenants that may affect our ability to sell or refinance a hotel, including requirements to obtain the consent of the franchisor in the event of such a sale or refinancing transaction. In the event that a franchisor’s consent is not forthcoming, the terms of a sale or refinancing may be less favorable to us than would otherwise be the case. Some of our franchise agreements provide the franchisor with a right of first offer in the event of certain sales or transfers of a hotel and provide that the franchisor has the right to approve any change in the hotel management company engaged to manage the hotel. Generally, we may be limited in our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer hotels unless the transferee is not a competitor of the franchisor and the transferee agrees to assume the related franchise agreements. If the franchisor does not consent to the sale or financing of our hotels, we may be unable to consummate transactions that are in our best interests or the terms of those transactions may be less favorable to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and the execution of our strategies. Hotel re-development is subject to timing, budgeting and other risks that would increase our operating costs and limit our ability to make distributions to stockholders. We intend to acquire hotel properties from time to time as suitable opportunities arise, taking into consideration general economic conditions, and seek to re-develop or reposition these hotels. Redevelopment of hotel properties involves a number of risks, including risks associated with: • construction delays or cost overruns that may increase project costs; • receipt of zoning, occupancy and other required governmental permits and authorizations; • development costs incurred for projects that are not pursued to completion; • acts of God such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods or fires that could adversely impact a project; • financing; and • governmental restrictions on the nature or size of a project. We cannot assure you that any re-development project will be completed on time or within budget. Our inability to complete a project on time or within budget would increase our operating costs and reduce our net income. 25 Table of Contents The hotel business is capital intensive and our inability to obtain financing could limit our growth. Our hotel properties will require periodic capital expenditures and renovation to remain competitive. Acquisitions or development of additional hotel properties will require significant capital expenditures. In addition, several of our mortgage lenders require that we set aside annual amounts for capital improvements to the secured property. We may not be able to fund capital improvements or acquisitions solely from cash provided from our operating activities because we must distribute at least 90.0% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains, each year to maintain our REIT tax status. As a result, our ability to fund significant capital expenditures, acquisitions or hotel development through retained earnings is very limited. Consequently, we rely upon the availability of debt or equity capital to fund any significant investments or capital improvements, but due to the recent recession and disruption of capital markets, these sources of funds may not yet be available to us on reasonable terms and conditions. Our ability to grow through acquisitions or development of hotels will be limited if we cannot obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing which will depend on market conditions. Neither our charter nor our bylaws limit the amount of debt that we can incur. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional equity or debt financing or that we will be able to obtain such financing on favorable terms. Uninsured and underinsured losses could adversely affect our operating results and our ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders. We maintain comprehensive insurance on each of our hotel properties, including liability, fire and extended coverage, of the type and amount we believe are customarily obtained for or by hotel owners. There are no assurances that current coverage will continue to be available at reasonable rates. Various types of catastrophic losses, like earthquakes and floods, such as Hurricane Sandy in October 2012 and Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans in August 2005, losses from foreign terrorist activities, such as those on September 11, 2001, or losses from domestic terrorist activities, such as the Oklahoma City bombing on April 19, 1995, may not be insurable or may not be economically insurable. Currently, our insurers provide terrorism coverage in conjunction with the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program sponsored by the federal government through which insurers are able to receive compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism. The program is currently set to expire on December 31, 2014. If the program is not renewed, we do not intend to obtain terrorism insurance on our hotel properties as we anticipate it will be costly or unavailable. Lenders may require such insurance and our failure to obtain such insurance could constitute a default under loan agreements. Depending on our access to capital, liquidity and the value of the properties securing the affected loan in relation to the balance of the loan, a default could reduce our net income and limit our ability to obtain future financing. In the event of a substantial loss, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover the full current market value or replacement cost of our lost investment. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a hotel, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the hotel. In that event, we might nevertheless remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors might also keep us from using insurance proceeds to replace or renovate a hotel after it has been damaged or destroyed. Under those circumstances, the insurance proceeds we receive might be inadequate to restore our economic position on the damaged or destroyed property. Noncompliance with governmental regulations could adversely affect our operating results. Environmental Matters Our hotels may be subject to environmental liabilities. An owner of real property can face liability for environmental contamination created by the presence or discharge of hazardous substances on the property. We may face liability regardless of: • our knowledge of the contamination; • the timing of the contamination; 26 Table of Contents • the cause of the contamination; or • the party responsible for the contamination of the property. There may be unknown environmental problems associated with our properties. If environmental contamination exists on our properties, we could become subject to strict, joint and several liability for the contamination by virtue of our ownership interest. The presence of hazardous substances on a property may adversely affect our ability to sell the property and we may incur substantial remediation costs. The discovery of environmental liabilities attached to our properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and our ability to comply with our covenants and to pay distributions to stockholders. Americans with Disabilities Act and Other Changes in Governmental Rules and Regulations Under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, or the ADA, all public accommodations must meet various federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. Compliance with the ADA’s requirements could require removal of access barriers, and non-compliance could result in the U.S. government imposing fines or in private litigants winning damages. If we are required to make substantial modifications to our hotels, whether to comply with the ADA or other changes in governmental rules and regulations, our financial condition, results of operations and ability to comply with the terms of the indenture and to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders could be adversely affected. Our hotels may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities which could cause us to incur substantial costs. The hotel properties that we acquire may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers. Contingent or unknown liabilities with respect to entities or properties acquired might include: • liabilities for environmental conditions; • losses in excess of our insured coverage; • accrued but unpaid liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; • tax, legal and regulatory liabilities; • claims of customers, vendors or other persons dealing with the Company’s predecessors prior to our formation or acquisition transactions that had not been asserted or were unknown prior to the Company’s formation or acquisition transactions; and • claims for indemnification by the general partners, officers and directors and others indemnified by the former owners of our properties. In general, the representations and warranties provided under the transaction agreements related to the sales of the hotel properties may not survive the closing of the transactions. While we will likely seek to require the sellers to indemnify us with respect to breaches of representations and warranties that survive, such indemnification may be limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. In addition, the total amount of costs and expenses that may be incurred with respect to liabilities associated with these hotels may exceed our expectations, and we may experience other unanticipated adverse effects, all of which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders. Future terrorist activities may adversely affect, and create uncertainty in, our business. Terrorism in the United States or elsewhere could have an adverse effect on our business, although the degree of impact will depend on a number of factors, including the U.S. and global economies and global 27 Table of Contents financial markets. Previous terrorist attacks in the United States and subsequent terrorism alerts have adversely affected the travel and hospitality industries over the past several years. Such attacks, or the threat of such attacks, could have a material adverse effect on our business, our ability to finance our business, our ability to insure our properties and/or our results of operations and financial condition, as a whole. We face risks related to pandemic diseases, which could materially and adversely affect travel and result in reduced demand for our hotels. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effect of a pandemic disease on the travel industry. For example, the outbreaks of SARS and avian flu in 2003 had a severe impact on the travel industry, and the outbreaks of H1N1 flu in 2009 threatened to have a similar impact. A prolonged recurrence of SARS, avian flu, H1N1 flu or another pandemic disease also may result in health or other government authorities imposing restrictions on travel. Any of these events could result in a significant drop in demand for our hotels and adversely affect our financial conditions and results of operations. General Risks Related to the Real Estate Industry Illiquidity of real estate investments could significantly impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties and harm our financial condition. Because real estate investments are relatively illiquid, our ability to promptly sell one or more hotel properties in our portfolio in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions is limited. The real estate market is affected by many factors that are beyond our control, including: • adverse changes in international, national, regional and local economic and market conditions; • changes in interest rates and in the cost and terms of debt financing; • absence of liquidity in credit markets which limits the availability and amount of debt financing; • changes in governmental laws and regulations, fiscal policies and zoning ordinances and the related costs of compliance with laws and regulations, fiscal policies and ordinances; • the ongoing need for capital improvements, particularly in older structures; • changes in operating expenses; and • civil unrest, acts of God, including earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters such as Hurricane Sandy in October 2012 and Hurricane Katrina in New Orleans in August 2005, which may result in uninsured losses, and acts of war or terrorism, including the consequences of terrorist acts, such as those that occurred on September 11, 2001. We may decide to sell our hotels in the future. We cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any hotel property for the price or on the terms set by us, or whether any price or other terms offered by a prospective purchaser would be acceptable to us. We also cannot predict the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close the sale of a hotel property. We may be required to expend funds to correct defects or to make improvements before a hotel property can be sold. We cannot assure you that we will have funds available to correct those defects or to make those improvements. In acquiring a hotel property, we may agree to lock-out provisions that materially restrict us from selling that property for a period of time or impose other restrictions, such as a limitation on the amount of debt that can be placed or repaid on that property. These factors and any others that would impede our ability to respond to adverse changes in the performance of our properties could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to comply with the terms of the indenture and to pay distributions to stockholders. 28 Table of Contents Future acquisitions may not yield the returns expected, may result in disruptions to our business, may strain management resources and may result in stockholder dilution. Our business strategy may not ultimately be successful and may not provide positive returns on our investments. Acquisitions may cause disruptions in our operations and divert management’s attention away from day-to-day operations. The issuance of equity securities in connection with any acquisition could be substantially dilutive to the Company’s stockholders. Our hotels may contain or develop harmful mold, which could lead to liability for adverse health effects and costs of remediating the problem. When excessive moisture accumulates in buildings or on building materials, mold growth may occur, particularly if the moisture problem remains undiscovered or is not addressed over a period of time. Some molds may produce airborne toxins or irritants. Concern about indoor exposure to mold has been increasing, as exposure to mold may cause a variety of adverse health effects and symptoms, including allergic or other reactions. As a result, the presence of significant mold at any of our properties could require us to undertake a costly remediation program to contain or remove the mold from the affected property, which would reduce our cash available for distribution. In addition, the presence of significant mold could expose us to liability from our guests, employees or the management company and others if property damage or health concerns arise and could harm our reputation. Increases in property taxes would increase our operating costs, reduce our income and adversely affect our ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders. Each of our hotel properties is subject to real and personal property taxes. These taxes may increase as tax rates change and as the properties are assessed or reassessed by taxing authorities. If property taxes increase, our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to the Company’s stockholders could be materially and adversely affected and the market price of the Company’s common shares could decline. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Our ability to effect a merger or other business combination transaction may be restricted by our Operating Partnership agreement. In the event of a change of control of the Company, the limited partners of our Operating Partnership will have the right, for a period of 30 days following the change of control event, to cause the Operating Partnership to redeem all of the units held by the limited partners for a cash amount equal to the cash redemption amount otherwise payable upon redemption pursuant to the partnership agreement. This cash redemption right may make it more unlikely or difficult for a third party to propose or consummate a change of control transaction, even if such transaction were in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders. Provisions of the Company’s charter may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company. Aggregate Share and Common Share Ownership Limits The Company’s charter provides that no person may directly or indirectly own more than 9.9% of the value of the Company’s outstanding shares of capital stock or more than 9.9% of the number of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock. These ownership limitations may prevent an acquisition of control of the Company by a third party without the Company’s board of directors’ approval, even if the Company’s stockholders believe the change of control is in their interest. The Company’s board of directors has discretion to waive that ownership limit if, including other considerations, the board receives evidence that ownership in excess of the limit will not jeopardize the Company’s REIT status. 29 Table of Contents Authority to Issue Stock The Company’s amended and restated charter authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 49,000,000 shares of common stock and up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, to classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Issuances of additional shares of stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of the Company, including transactions at a premium over the market price of the Company’s stock, even if stockholders believe that a change of control is in their interest. The Company will be able to issue additional shares of common or preferred stock without stockholder approval, unless stockholder approval is required by applicable law or the rules of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Company’s securities may be listed or traded. Provisions of Maryland law may limit the ability of a third party to acquire control of the Company. Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law, or the MGCL, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change of control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of shares of the Company’s common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of such shares, including: • “business combination” provisions that, subject to limitations, prohibit certain business combinations between us and an “interested stockholder” (defined generally as any person who beneficially owns 10.0% or more of the voting power of our shares or an affiliate thereof) for five years after the most recent date on which the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, and thereafter imposes special appraisal rights and special stockholder voting requirements on these combinations; and • “control share” provisions that provide that “control shares” of the Company (defined as shares which, when aggregated with other shares controlled by the stockholder, entitle the stockholder to exercise one of three increasing ranges of voting power in electing directors) acquired in a “control share acquisition” (defined as the direct or indirect acquisition of ownership or control of “control shares”) have no voting rights except to the extent approved by the Company’s stockholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding all interested shares. The Company has opted out of these provisions of the MGCL, in the case of the business combination provisions of the MGCL by resolution of the Company’s board of directors, and in the case of the control share provisions of the MGCL pursuant to a provision in the Company’s bylaws. However, the Company’s board of directors may by resolution elect to opt in to the business combination provisions of the MGCL and the Company may, by amendment to its bylaws, opt in to the control share provisions of the MGCL in the future. The Company’s board of directors has the exclusive power to amend the Company’s bylaws. Additionally, Title 8, Subtitle 3 of the MGCL permits the Company’s board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is currently provided in the Company’s charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which (for example, a classified board) the Company does not currently have. These provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making an acquisition proposal for the Company or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company under the circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of the Company’s common stock with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then current market price. Provisions in the Company’s executive officers’ employment agreements and the strategic alliance agreement may make a change of control of the Company more costly or difficult. The Company’s employment agreements with Andrew M. Sims, its chief executive officer, David R. Folsom, its president and chief operating officer, and Anthony E. Domalski, its chief financial officer, contain provisions providing for substantial payments to these officers in the event of a change of control of the 30 Table of Contents Company. Specifically, if the Company terminates these executive’s employment without cause or the executive resigns with good reason, which includes a failure to nominate Andrew M. Sims to the Company’s board of directors or his involuntary removal from the Company’s board of directors, unless for cause or by vote of the stockholders, or if there is a change of control, each of these executives is entitled to the following: • any accrued but unpaid salary and bonuses; • vesting of any previously issued stock options and restricted stock; • payment of the executive’s life, health and disability insurance coverage for a period of five years following termination; • any unreimbursed expenses; and • a severance payment equal to three times for Andrew M. Sims’, David R. Folsom’s and Anthony E. Domalski’s respective combined salary and actual bonus compensation for the preceding fiscal year. In addition, these executives will receive additional payments to compensate them for the additional taxes, if any, imposed on them under Section 4999 of the Code by reason of receipt of excess parachute payments. We will not be able to deduct any of the above amounts paid to the executives for tax purposes. These provisions may make a change of control of the Company, even if it is in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders, more costly and difficult and may reduce the amounts the Company’s stockholders would receive in a change of control transaction. Our ownership limitations may restrict or prevent you from engaging in certain transfers of the Company’s common stock. In order to maintain the Company’s REIT qualification, it cannot be closely held (i.e., more than 50.0% in value of our outstanding stock cannot be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals during the last half of any taxable year (other than the first year for which a REIT election is made)). To preserve the Company’s REIT qualification, the Company’s charter contains a 9.9% aggregate share ownership limit and a 9.9% common share ownership limit. Generally, any shares of the Company’s stock owned by affiliated persons will be added together for purposes of the aggregate share ownership limit, and any shares of common stock owned by affiliated owners will be added together for purposes of the common share ownership limit. If anyone transfers shares in a way that would violate the aggregate share ownership limit or the common share ownership limit, or prevent the Company from continuing to qualify as a REIT under the federal income tax laws, those shares instead will be transferred to a trust for the benefit of a charitable beneficiary and will be either redeemed by us or sold to a person whose ownership of the shares will not violate the aggregate share ownership limit or the common share ownership limit. If this transfer to a trust fails to prevent such a violation or fails to preserve the Company’s continued qualification as a REIT, then the Company will consider the initial intended transfer to be null and void from the outset. The intended transferee of those shares will be deemed never to have owned the shares. Anyone who acquires shares in violation of the aggregate share ownership limit, the common share ownership limit or the other restrictions on transfer in the Company’s charter bears the risk of suffering a financial loss when the shares are redeemed or sold if the market price of the Company’s stock falls between the date of purchase and the date of redemption or sale. The board of directors’ revocation of the Company’s REIT status without stockholder approval may decrease the Company’s stockholders’ total return. The Company’s charter provides that the Company’s board of directors may revoke or otherwise terminate the Company’s REIT election, without the approval of the Company’s stockholders, if the Company’s board of directors determines that it is no longer in the Company’s best interest to continue to qualify as a REIT. If the Company ceases to be a REIT, it would become subject to federal income tax on its taxable income and would no 31 Table of Contents longer be required to distribute most of its taxable income to the Company’s stockholders, which may have adverse consequences on our total return to the Company’s stockholders. The ability of the Company’s board of directors to change the Company’s major corporate policies may not be in your best interest. The Company’s board of directors determines the Company’s major corporate policies, including its acquisition, financing, growth, operations and distribution policies. The Company’s board of directors may amend or revise these and other policies from time to time without the vote or consent of the Company’s stockholders. We do not have the ability to control the sale of any hotel properties acquired through our joint venture program with Carlyle. We own, through our joint venture program with Carlyle, a 25.0% indirect noncontrolling interest in the Crowne Plaza Hollywood Beach Resort. Carlyle controls all major decisions relating to this investment, including, but not limited to, the sale of the property. We will not be able to control the timing and terms and conditions of sale of our interest in the Crowne Plaza Hollywood Beach Resort. Joint venture investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority, our reliance on a joint venture partners’ financial condition and disputes between our joint venture partners and us. In August 2007, we purchased a 25.0% indirect, noncontrolling interest in the Crowne Plaza Hollywood Beach Resort through a joint venture with Carlyle. Carlyle owns a 75.0% controlling interest in the joint venture and is in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property including, but not limited to, the method and timing of disposition of the property. We may co-invest in the future with Carlyle or other third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities, acquiring noncontrolling interests in or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of a property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. In such event, we would not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. Investments in partnerships, joint ventures or other entities may, under certain circumstances, involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or joint venture partners might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Partners or joint venture partners may have economic or other business interests or goals, which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. Such investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions, such as a sale, because neither we, nor the partner or joint venture partner, would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. Disputes between us and partners or joint venture partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our officers and/or directors from focusing their time and effort on our business. Consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners or joint venture partners might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. We may also, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or joint venture partners. For example, we may be required to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a partnership, joint venture or other entity for the purchase or renovation of a hotel property. Such a guarantee may be on a joint and several basis with our partner or joint venture partner in which case we may be liable in the event such party defaults on its guaranty obligation. Our success depends on key personnel whose continued service is not guaranteed. We depend on the efforts and expertise of our chairman and chief executive officer, Andrew M. Sims; our president and chief operating officer, David R. Folsom; and our chief financial officer, Anthony E. Domalski, to manage our day-to-day operations and strategic business direction. The loss of any of their services could have an adverse effect on our operations. 32 Table of Contents Federal Income Tax Risks Related to the Company’s Status as a REIT The federal income tax laws governing REITs are complex. The Company intends to operate in a manner that will maintain its qualification as a REIT under the federal income tax laws. The REIT qualification requirements are extremely complex, however, and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification as a REIT are limited. The Company has not requested or obtained a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, or the IRS, that it qualifies as a REIT. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the Company will be successful in operating in a manner that will permit it to qualify as a REIT. At any time, new laws, interpretations or court decisions may change the federal tax laws or the federal income tax consequences of the Company’s qualification as a REIT. We cannot predict when or if any new federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, or any amendment to any existing federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation, will be adopted, promulgated or become effective and any such law, regulation or interpretation may take effect retroactively. The Company and its stockholders could be adversely affected by any such change in, or any new, federal income tax law, regulation or administrative interpretation. We are not aware, however, of any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect the Company’s ability to qualify as a REIT. Failure to make distributions could subject the Company to tax. In order to maintain its qualification as a REIT, each year the Company must pay out to its stockholders in distributions, as “qualifying distributions”, at least 90.0% of its REIT taxable income, computed without regard to the deductions for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains and reduced by certain non-cash items. To the extent that the Company satisfies this distribution requirement, but distributes less than 100.0% of its taxable income (including its net capital gain), it will be subject to federal corporate income tax on its undistributed taxable income. In addition, the Company will be subject to a 4.0% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that it pays out to its stockholders as a “qualifying distribution” for a calendar year is less than the sum of: (A) 85% of our ordinary income for such calendar year, plus (B) 95% of our capital gain net income for such calendar year. The Company’s only recurring source of funds to make these distributions comes from rent received from its TRS Lessee whose only recurring source of funds with which to make these payments and distributions is the net cash flow (after payment of operating and other costs and expenses and management fees) from hotel operations, and any dividend and other distributions that it may receive from MHI Holding. Accordingly, the Company may be required to borrow money or sell assets to make distributions sufficient to enable it to pay out enough of its taxable income to satisfy the distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4.0% nondeductible excise tax in a particular year. Failure to qualify as a REIT would subject the Company to federal income tax. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, it will be required to pay federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. The resulting tax liability might cause the Company to borrow funds, liquidate some of its investments or take other steps that could negatively affect its operating results in order to pay any such tax. Unless it is entitled to relief under certain statutory provisions, the Company would be disqualified from treatment as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year in which it lost its qualification. If the Company lost its REIT status, its net earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders would be significantly reduced for each of the years involved. In addition, the Company would no longer be required to make distributions to its stockholders, and it would not be able to deduct any stockholder distributions in computing its taxable income. This would substantially reduce the Company’s earnings, cash available to pay distributions, and the value of common stock. Failure to qualify as a REIT may cause the Company to reduce or eliminate distributions to its stockholders, and the Company may face increased difficulty in raising capital or obtaining financing. If the Company fails to remain qualified as a REIT, it may have to reduce or eliminate any distributions to its stockholders in order to satisfy its income tax liabilities. Any distributions that the Company does make to its 33 Table of Contents stockholders would be treated as taxable dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. This may result in negative investor and market perception regarding the market value of the Company’s common stock, and the value of its common stock may be reduced. In addition, the Company and the Operating Partnership may face increased difficulty in raising capital or obtaining financing if the Company fails to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT because of the resulting tax liability and potential reduction of its market valuation. MHI Holding increases our overall tax liability. Our TRS Lessee is a single-member limited liability company that is wholly-owned by MHI Holding, a taxable REIT subsidiary that is wholly-owned by the Operating Partnership. Our TRS Lessee is disregarded as an entity separate from MHI Holding for U.S. federal income tax purposes, such that the assets, liabilities, income, gains, losses, credits and deductions of our TRS Lessee are treated as the assets, liabilities, income, gains, losses, credits and deductions of MHI Holding for U.S. federal income tax purposes. MHI Holding is subject to federal and state income tax on its taxable income, which will consist of the revenues from the hotels leased by the Company’s TRS Lessee, net of the operating expenses for such hotels and rent payments. Accordingly, although the Company’s ownership of MHI Holding and the TRS Lessee will allow it to participate in the operating income from its hotels in addition to receiving rent, that operating income will be fully subject to income tax. The after-tax net income of MHI Holding, if any, will be available for distribution to the Company. The Company will incur a 100.0% excise tax on its transactions with MHI Holding and the TRS Lessee that are not conducted on an arm’s-length basis. For example, to the extent that the rent paid by the TRS Lessee exceeds an arm’s-length rental amount, such amount potentially will be subject to this excise tax. The Company intends that all transactions among itself, MHI Holding and the TRS Lessee will be conducted on an arm’s-length basis and, therefore, that the rent paid by the TRS Lessee will not be subject to this excise tax. Even if the Company remains qualified as a REIT, it may face other tax liabilities that reduce its cash flow. Even if the Company remains qualified for taxation as a REIT, it may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on its income and assets. For example: • it will be required to pay tax on undistributed REIT taxable income (including net capital gain); • it may be required to pay “alternative minimum tax” on its items of tax preference; • if it has net income from the disposition of foreclosure property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income from foreclosure property, it must pay tax on that income at the highest corporate rate; • if it sells a property in a “prohibited transaction,” its gain from the sale would be subject to a 100.0% penalty tax. A “prohibited transaction” would be a sale of property, other than a foreclosure property, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business; • MHI Holding is a fully taxable corporation and is required to pay federal and state taxes on its taxable income; and • it may experience increases in its state and/or local income tax burdens as states and localities continue to look to modify their tax laws in order to raise revenues, including by (among other things) changing from a net taxable income-based regime to a gross receipts-based regime, suspending and/or limiting the use of net operating losses, increasing tax rates and fees, imposing surcharges and subjecting partnerships to an entity-level tax, and limiting or disallowing certain U.S. federal deductions such as the dividends-paid deduction. Complying with REIT requirements may cause the Company to forgo attractive opportunities that could otherwise generate strong risk-adjusted returns and instead pursue less attractive opportunities, or none at all. To qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of its income, the nature and diversification of its assets, the 34 Table of Contents amounts it distributes to its stockholders and the ownership of its stock. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder the Company’s ability to operate solely on the basis of generating strong risk-adjusted returns on invested capital for its stockholders. Complying with REIT requirements may force the Company to liquidate otherwise attractive investments, which could result in an overall loss on its investments. To maintain qualification as a REIT, the Company must ensure that at the end of each calendar quarter at least 75.0% of the value of its assets consists of cash, cash items, government securities and qualified REIT real estate assets. The remainder of the Company’s investment in securities (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries) generally cannot include more than 10.0% of the outstanding voting securities of any one issuer or more than 10.0% of the total value of the outstanding securities of any one issuer. In addition, in general, no more than 5.0% of the value of the Company’s assets (other than government securities, qualified real estate assets and securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries) can consist of the securities of any one issuer, and no more than 25.0% of the value of the Company’s total assets can be represented by securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries. If the Company fails to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, it must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter to avoid losing its REIT status and suffering adverse tax consequences. If the Company fails to comply with these requirements at the end of any calendar quarter, and the failure exceeds a de minimis threshold, the Company may be able to preserve its REIT status if the failure was due to reasonable cause and not to willful neglect. In this case, the Company will be required to dispose of the assets causing the failure within six months after the last day of the quarter in which the failure occurred, and it will be required to pay an additional tax of the greater of $50,000 or the product of the highest applicable tax rate multiplied by the net income generated on those assets. As a result, the Company may be required to liquidate otherwise attractive investments. Taxation of dividend income could make the Company’s common stock less attractive to investors and reduce the market price of its common stock. The federal income tax laws governing REITs, or the administrative interpretations of those laws, may be amended at any time. Any new laws or interpretations may take effect retroactively and could adversely affect the Company or could adversely affect its stockholders. Under recently-enacted legislation, “qualified dividends,” which include dividends from domestic C corporations that are paid to non-corporate stockholders, are subject to a reduced maximum U.S. federal income tax rate of 20.0%. Because REITs generally do not pay corporate-level taxes as a result of the dividends-paid deduction to which they are entitled, dividends from REITs generally are not treated as qualified dividends and thus do not qualify for a reduced tax rate. Non-corporate investors could view an investment in non-REIT corporations as more attractive than an investment in REITs because the dividends they would receive from non-REIT corporations would be subject to lower tax rates. If the Operating Partnership fails to qualify as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, the Company could cease to qualify as a REIT and suffer other adverse consequences. We believe that the Operating Partnership will continue to qualify to be treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As a partnership, the Operating Partnership is not subject to federal income tax on its income. Instead, each of its partners, including the Company, will be required to pay tax on its allocable share of the Operating Partnership’s income. We cannot assure you, however, that the IRS will not challenge the Operating Partnership’s status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in treating the Operating Partnership as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, the Company could fail to meet the gross income tests and certain of the asset tests applicable to REITs and, accordingly, cease to qualify as a REIT. Also, the failure of the Operating Partnership to qualify as a partnership would cause the Company to become subject to federal and state corporate income tax, 35 Table of Contents which would reduce significantly the amount of cash available for debt service and for distribution to its partners, including the Company. The Company’s failure to qualify as a REIT would have serious adverse consequences to its stockholders. The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code, commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 2004. The Company believes it has operated so as to qualify as a REIT under the Code and believes that its current organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Code to enable the Company to continue to qualify as a REIT. However, it is possible that the Company has been organized or has operated in a manner that would not allow it to qualify as a REIT, or that its future operations could cause it to fail to qualify. Qualification as a REIT requires the Company to satisfy numerous requirements (some on an annual and others on a quarterly basis) established under highly technical and complex sections of the Code for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations, and involves the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within its control. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, the Company must satisfy a 75.0% gross income test pursuant to Code Section 856(c)(3) and a 95.0% gross income test pursuant to Code Section 856(c)(2) each taxable year. In addition, the Company must pay dividends, as “qualifying distributions”, to its stockholders aggregating annually at least 90.0% of its REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends-paid deduction and by excluding capital gains, and reduced by certain non-cash items) and must satisfy specified asset tests on a quarterly basis. While historically the Company has satisfied the distribution requirement discussed above by making cash distributions to its stockholders, the Company may choose to satisfy this requirement by making distributions of cash or other property, including, in limited circumstances, its stock. The provisions of the Code and applicable Treasury regulations regarding qualification as a REIT are more complicated in the Company’s case because its holds its assets through the Operating Partnership. If MHI Holding does not qualify as a taxable REIT subsidiary, or if the Company’s hotel manager does not qualify as an “eligible independent contractor,” the Company would fail to qualify as a REIT and would be subject to higher taxes and have less cash available for distribution to its shareholders. Rent paid by a lessee that is a “related party tenant” of ours will not be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests applicable to REITs. The Company currently leases substantially all of its hotels to the TRS Lessee, which is a disregarded entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes and is wholly-owned by MHI Holding, a taxable REIT subsidiary, and expects to continue to do so. So long as MHI Holding qualifies as a taxable REIT subsidiary, it will not be treated as a “related party tenant” with respect to the Company’s properties that are managed by an independent hotel management company that qualifies as an “eligible independent contractor.” The Company believes that MHI Holding will continue to qualify to be treated as a taxable REIT subsidiary for federal income tax purposes, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will not challenge this status or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. If the IRS were successful in such challenge, it is possible that the Company would fail to meet the asset tests applicable to REITs and substantially all of its income would fail to be qualifying income for purposes of the two gross income tests. If the Company failed to meet any of the asset or gross income tests, it would likely lose its REIT qualification for federal income tax purposes. Additionally, if the Company’s hotel manager does not qualify as an “eligible independent contractor,” the Company would fail to qualify as a REIT. Each hotel manager that enters into a management contract with the TRS Lessee must qualify as an “eligible independent contractor” under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid by the TRS Lessee to be qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an eligible independent contractor, a hotel manager must not own, directly or through its shareholders, more than 35.0% of the Company’s outstanding shares, taking into account certain ownership attribution rules. The ownership attribution rules that apply for purposes of these 35.0% thresholds are complex. Although the Company intends to monitor ownership of its shares by its hotel manager and their owners, there can be no assurance that these ownership levels will not be exceeded. 36 Table of Contents Foreign investors may be subject to U.S. tax on the disposition of the Company’s stock if the Company does not qualify as a “domestically controlled” REIT. A foreign person disposing of a “U.S. real property interest,” which includes stock of a U.S. corporation whose assets consist principally of U.S. real property interests, is generally subject to U.S. federal income tax under the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980 (“FIRPTA”) on the gain recognized on the disposition. Additionally, the transferee will be required to withhold 10% on the amount realized on the disposition. This 10% is creditable against the U.S. federal income tax liability of the foreign transferor in connection with such transferor’s disposition of the Company’s stock. FIRPTA does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a REIT if the REIT is “domestically controlled” (i.e., less than 50% of the REIT’s capital stock, by value, has been owned directly or indirectly by persons who are not qualifying U.S. persons during a continuous five-year period ending on the date of disposition or, if shorter, during the entire period of the REIT’s existence). We cannot be sure that the Company will qualify as a “domestically controlled” REIT. If the Company does not so qualify, gain realized by foreign investors on a sale of the Company’s stock would be subject to U.S. income and withholding tax under FIRPTA, unless the Company’s stock were traded on an established securities market and a foreign investor did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5% of the value of the Company’s outstanding stock. Investors may be subject to a 3.8% Medicare tax in connection with an investment in the Company’s common stock or the Notes. The U.S. tax laws impose a 3.8% “Medicare tax” on the “net investment income” (i.e., interest, dividends, capital gains, annuities, and rents that are not derived in the ordinary course of a trade or business) of individuals with income exceeding $200,000 ($250,000 if married filing jointly or $125,000 if married filing separately), and of estates and trusts. Interest on the Notes and gains from the disposition of the Notes may be subject to the Medicare tax. Prospective investors should consult with their independent advisors as to the applicability of the Medicare tax to an investment in the Notes in light of such investors’ particular circumstances. Investors may be subject to U.S. withholding tax under the “Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act.” On March 18, 2010, the Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act, or the HIRE Act, was enacted in the United States. The HIRE Act includes provisions known as the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, or FATCA, that generally impose a 30% U.S. withholding tax on “withholdable payments,” which consist of (i) U.S.-source dividends, interest, rents and other “fixed or determinable annual or periodical income” paid after June 30, 2014 and (ii) certain U.S.-source gross proceeds paid after December 31, 2016 to (a) “foreign financial institutions” unless (x) they enter into an agreement with the IRS to collect and disclose to the IRS information regarding their direct and indirect U.S. owners or (y) they comply with the terms of any FATCA intergovernmental agreement executed between the authorities in their jurisdiction and the U.S., and (b) “non-financial foreign entities” (i.e., foreign entities that are not foreign financial institutions) unless they certify certain information regarding their direct and indirect U.S. owners. Final regulations under FATCA were issued by the IRS on January 17, 2013, which were supplemented by additional regulations and guidance. FATCA does not replace the existing U.S. withholding tax regime. However, the FATCA regulations contain coordination provisions to avoid double withholding on U.S.-source income. A foreign investment that receives dividends on the Company’s common stock or gross proceeds from a disposition of shares of the Company’s common stock may be subject to FATCA withholding tax with respect to such dividends or gross proceeds. 37 Table of Contents Under a grandfathering rule, FATCA does not apply to any payments made under an obligation that is outstanding on July 1, 2014 (provided such obligation is not materially modified subsequent to such date) and any gross proceeds from the disposition of such obligation. The Notes will be grandfathered obligations for FATCA purposes provided they are not materially modified after July 1, 2014. However, if the Notes are materially modified after July 1, 2014, interest on the Notes may be subject to FATCA withholding. Prospective investors should consult their own tax advisors regarding the potential implications of FATCA with respect to an investment in the Notes in light of their particular circumstances. Foreign investors will be subject to U.S. withholding tax on the receipt of ordinary dividends on the Company’s stock. The portion of dividends received by a foreign investor payable out of the Company’s current and accumulated earnings and profits which are not attributable to capital gains and which are not effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business of the foreign investor will generally be treated as ordinary income and will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at the rate of 30%. This 30% withholding tax may be reduced by an applicable income tax treaty. The IRS recently issued additional temporary and final FATCA regulations that are complex and considerable in length. Even if the 30% withholding is reduced or eliminated by treaty for payments made to a foreign investor, FATCA withholding of 30% could apply depending upon the foreign investor’s FATCA status. Foreign investors should consult with their independent advisors as to the U.S. withholding tax consequences to such investors with respect to their investment in the Company’s stock in light of their particular circumstances, as well as determining the appropriate documentation required to reduce or eliminate U.S. withholding tax. Foreign investors will be subject to U.S. income tax on the receipt of capital gain dividends on the Company’s stock. Under FIRPTA, distributions that we make to a foreign investor that are attributable to gains from our dispositions of U.S. real property interests (“capital gain dividends”) will be treated as income that is effectively connected with a U.S. trade or business in the hands of the foreign investor. A foreign investor will be subject to U.S. federal income tax (at the rates applicable to U.S. investors) on any capital gain dividends, and will also be required to file U.S. federal income tax returns to report such capital gain dividends. Furthermore, capital gain dividends are subject to an additional 30% “branch profits tax” (which may be reduced by an applicable income tax treaty) in the hands of a foreign corporate investor. Legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect you. Because our operations are governed to a significant extent by the federal tax laws, new legislative or regulatory action could adversely affect our investors. You are strongly encouraged to consult with your own tax advisor with respect to the status of any legislative, regulatory or administrative developments, announcements and proposals and their potential impact on your investment in the Company’s stock. 38 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 