ITEM 1A Risk Factors All material risks and uncertainties currently known regarding our business operations are included in this section. If any of the following risks, or other risks and uncertainties that we have not yet identified or that we currently consider not to be material, actually occur, our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Because we are primarily a transportation insurer, conditions in that industry could adversely affect our business. Approximately 86.7% of our gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 85.1% for the year ended December 31, 2011 were generated from transportation insurance policies, including ART programs for transportation companies. Adverse developments in the market for transportation insurance, including those which could result from potential declines in commercial and economic activity, could cause our results of operations to suffer. The transportation insurance industry is cyclical. Historically, the industry has been characterized by periods of price competition and excess capacity followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity. These downward fluctuations in the business cycle have and could continue to negatively impact our revenues. Additionally, our results may be affected by risks that impact the transportation industry related to severe weather conditions, as well as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. Our transportation insurance business also may be affected by cost trends that negatively impact profitability, such as an economic downturn, inflation in vehicle repair costs, vehicle replacement parts costs, used vehicle prices, fuel costs and medical care costs. Increased costs related to the handling and litigation of claims may also negatively impact our profitability. If we expand our operations too rapidly and do not manage that expansion effectively, our financial performance and stock price could be adversely affected. We intend to grow by developing new products, expanding into new product lines and expanding our insurance distribution network. Continued growth could impose significant demands on our management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees. Our historical growth rates may not accurately reflect our future growth rates or our growth potential. We may experience higher than anticipated indemnity losses arising from new and expanded insurance products. In addition, our systems, procedures and internal controls may not be adequate to support our operations as they expand. In addition to these organic growth strategies, we regularly explore opportunities to acquire other companies or selected books of business. Upon the announcement of an acquisition, our stock price may fall depending on the size of the acquisition, the purchase price and the potential dilution to existing shareholders depending upon the financial structure of the acquisition. It is also possible that an acquisition could dilute earnings per share. If we grow through acquisitions, we could have difficulty in integrating an acquired company, which may cause us not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and other projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could result in the loss of key employees, disruption of our business or the business of the acquired company, or otherwise harm our ability to retain customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Time and resources spent on integration may also impair our ability to grow our existing businesses. Also, the negative effect of any financial commitments required by regulatory authorities or rating agencies in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. Any failure by us to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are not able to attract and retain independent agents and brokers, our revenues could be negatively affected. We compete with other insurance carriers to attract and retain business from independent agents and brokers. Some of our competitors offer independent agents and brokers a larger variety of products, lower prices for insurance coverage or higher commissions than we offer. Our top ten independent agents/brokers accounted for an aggregate of 27.9% of our gross premiums written, and our top two independent agents/brokers accounted 18 Table of Contents for an aggregate of 12.1% of our gross premiums written during the year ended December 31, 2012. If we are unable to attract and retain independent agents/brokers to sell our products, our ability to compete and attract new customers and our revenues would suffer. Our growth strategy includes expanding into product lines in which we have limited experience. We are continually evaluating new products to add to our business mix. In some instances, we have limited experience with marketing and managing these new products and insuring the types of risks involved. Our failure to effectively analyze new underwriting risks, set adequate premium rates and establish reserves for these new products or efficiently adjust claims arising from these new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. During the start up period for new products, we generally set more conservative loss reserves in recognition of the inherent risk. This could adversely affect our statutory capital, net income and ability to pay dividends. We are currently rated “A” (Excellent) by A.M. Best, which is its third highest rating out of 16 rating categories. A decline in our rating below “A-” could adversely affect our position in the insurance market, make it more difficult to market our insurance products and cause our premiums and earnings to decrease. Financial ratings are an important factor influencing the competitive position of insurance companies. A.M. Best ratings, which are commonly used in the insurance industry, currently range from “A++” (Superior) to “F” (In Liquidation). The objective of A.M. Best’s rating system is to provide potential policyholders and other interested parties an opinion of an insurer’s financial strength and ability to meet ongoing obligations, including paying claims. This rating reflects A.M. Best’s analysis of our balance sheet, financial position, capitalization and management. It is not an evaluation of an investment in our common shares, nor is it directed to investors in our common shares and is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold our common shares. This rating is subject to periodic review and may be revised downward, upward or revoked at the sole discretion of A.M. Best. If our rating is reduced by A.M. Best below an “A-”, we believe that our competitive position in the insurance industry could suffer, and it could be more difficult for us to market our insurance products. A downgrade could result in a significant reduction in the number of insurance contracts we write and in a substantial loss of business to other competitors with higher ratings, causing premiums and earnings to decrease. Market fluctuations, changes in interest rates or a need to generate liquidity can have significant and negative effects on our investment portfolio. Our results of operations depend in part on the performance of our invested assets. As of December 31, 2012, 93.3% of our investment portfolio (excluding cash and cash equivalents) was invested in fixed maturities, 3.1% was invested in equity securities and 3.6% was invested in limited partnership investments. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 38.3% of our fixed maturity portfolio was invested in state and local government obligations and approximately 90.8% of our fixed maturities were rated “investment grade” (credit rating of AAA to BBB-) by S&P. Investment returns are an important part of our overall profitability. We cannot predict which industry sectors in which we maintain investments may suffer losses as a result of potential declines in commercial and economic activity, or how any such decline might impact the ability of companies within the affected industry sectors to pay interest or principal on their securities and we cannot predict how or to what extent the value of any underlying collateral might be affected. Accordingly, adverse fluctuations in the fixed income or equity markets could adversely impact our profitability, financial condition or cash flows. Markets in the United States and around the world experienced lower volatility in 2012 as compared to 2011. Although economic conditions and financial markets have somewhat stabilized, if market conditions were to deteriorate, our investment portfolio could be adversely impacted. 19 Table of Contents Historically, we have not had the need to sell our investments to generate liquidity. If we were forced to sell portfolio securities that have unrealized losses for liquidity purposes rather than holding them to maturity or recovery, we would recognize investment losses on those securities when that determination was made. Future sales of our common shares may affect the trading price of our common shares. We cannot predict what effect, if any, future sales of our common shares or the availability of common shares for future sale will have on the trading price of our common shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our common shares in the public market by Great American or our other shareholders, or the possibility or perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares. If such sales reduce the market price of our common shares, our ability to raise additional capital in the equity markets may be adversely affected. In 2005, we filed a registration statement on Form S-8 under the Securities Act to register 1,338,800 common shares issued or reserved for issuance for awards granted under our Long Term Incentive Plan. Shares registered under the registration statement on Form S-8 also could be sold into the public markets, subject to applicable vesting provisions and any volume limitations and other restrictions applicable to our officers and Directors selling shares under Rule 144. The sale of the shares under these registration statements in the public market, or the possibility or perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common shares. If our claims payments and related expenses exceed our reserves, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends upon our ability to accurately assess and price the risks covered by the insurance policies that we write. We establish reserves to cover our estimated liability for the payment of all losses and LAE incurred with respect to premiums earned on the insurance policies that we write. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of liability. Rather, reserves are estimates of our expectations regarding the ultimate cost of resolution and administration of claims under the insurance policies that we write. These estimates are based upon actuarial and statistical projections, assessments of currently available data, historical claims information, as well as estimates and assumptions regarding future trends in claims severity and frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. We continually refine our reserve estimates in an ongoing process as experience develops and claims are reported and settled. Each year, our reserves are certified by an accredited actuary from Great American. Establishing an appropriate level of reserves is an inherently uncertain process. The following factors may have a substantial impact on our future actual losses and LAE experience: • the amount of claims payments; • the expenses that we incur in resolving claims; • legislative and judicial developments; and • changes in economic conditions, including the effect of inflation. Unfavorable development in any of these factors could cause our level of reserves to be inadequate. To the extent that actual losses and LAE exceed expectations and the reserves reflected on our financial statements, we will be required to immediately reflect those changes by increasing reserves. When we increase reserves, the pre-tax income for the period in which we do so will decrease by a corresponding amount. In addition to having a negative effect on pre-tax income, increasing or “strengthening” reserves causes a reduction in our insurance companies’ surplus and could cause a downgrading of the rating of our insurance company subsidiaries. Such a downgrade could, in turn, adversely affect our ability to sell insurance policies. 20 Table of Contents We may not be successful in reducing our risk and increasing our underwriting capacity through reinsurance arrangements, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In order to reduce our underwriting risk, primarily for our excess coverage and catastrophic exposures, we transfer portions of our insurance risk to other insurers through reinsurance contracts. Ceded premiums written amounted to 14.2% and 16.0%, respectively, of our gross premiums written for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. The availability, cost and structure of reinsurance protection are subject to prevailing market conditions that are outside of our control and which may affect our level of business and profitability. We continually assess and may increase our participation in the risk retention based on availability and cost of reinsurance as well as our own appetite for retaining risk. In order for these contracts to qualify for reinsurance accounting and to provide the additional underwriting capacity that we desire, the reinsurer generally must assume significant risk and have a reasonable possibility of a significant loss. Our reinsurance facilities are generally subject to annual renewal. We may be unable to maintain our current reinsurance facilities or obtain reinsurance facilities in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring facilities or obtain new reinsurance facilities, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of risk we underwrite which could adversely impact our results of operations. As a holding company, we are dependent on the results of operations of our insurance company subsidiaries to meet our obligations and pay future dividends. We are a holding company and a legal entity separate and distinct from our insurance company subsidiaries. As a holding company without significant operations of our own, one of our sources of funds are dividends and other distributions from our insurance company subsidiaries. As discussed under the subsection of “Business” entitled “Regulation,” statutory and regulatory restrictions limit the aggregate amount of dividends or other distributions that our insurance subsidiaries may declare or pay within any twelve-month period without advance regulatory approval and require insurance companies to maintain specified levels of statutory capital and surplus. Insurance regulators have broad powers to prevent reduction of statutory capital and surplus to inadequate levels and could refuse to permit the payment of dividends calculated under any applicable formula. As a result, we may not be able to receive dividends from our insurance subsidiaries at times and in amounts necessary to meet our operating needs, to pay dividends to our shareholders or to pay corporate expenses. We are subject to credit risk with respect to the obligations of our reinsurers and certain of our insureds. The inability of our risk sharing partners to meet their obligations could adversely affect our profitability. Although the reinsurer is liable to us to the extent of risk ceded by us, we remain ultimately liable to the policyholder on all risks, even those reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not limit our ultimate obligations to policyholders to pay claims. We are subject to credit risks with respect to the financial strength of our reinsurers. We are also subject to the risk that our reinsurers may dispute their obligations to pay our claims. As a result, we may not recover sufficient amounts for claims that we submit to our reinsurers in a timely manner, if at all. As of December 31, 2012, we had a total of $116.7 million of unsecured reinsurance recoverables. In addition, our reinsurance agreements are subject to specified limits and we would not have reinsurance coverage to the extent that we exceed those limits. With respect to our insurance programs, we are subject to credit risk with respect to the payment of claims and on the portion of risk exposure either ceded to the ART participants or retained by our clients. The credit worthiness of prospective risk sharing partners is a factor we consider when entering into or renewing these ART programs. We typically collateralize balances due through funds withheld, letters of credit or trust agreements. To date, we have not, in the aggregate, experienced material difficulties in collecting balances from our risk sharing partners. No assurance can be given, however, regarding the future ability of these entities to meet their obligations. The inability of our risk sharing partners to meet their obligations could adversely affect our profitability. 21 Table of Contents We may not have access to capital in the future due to an economic downturn. We may need new or additional financing in the future to conduct our operations, expand our business or refinance existing indebtedness. Any sustained weakness in the general economic conditions and/or financial markets in the United States or globally could affect adversely our ability to raise capital on favorable terms or at all. We may rely in the future, on access to financial markets as a source of liquidity for operations, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. Our continued access to funds under our $100 million unsecured Credit Agreement (“Credit Agreement”) is dependent in part on the ability of the financial institutions that are parties to the facility to meet their funding commitments. Those financial institutions may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity or if they experience excessive volumes of borrowing requests within a short period of time. New claim and coverage issues are continually emerging in the insurance industry and these new issues could negatively impact our revenues, our business operations or our reputation. As insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and industry conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to pricing, claims, coverage and business practices may emerge. Plaintiffs often target property and casualty insurers in purported class action litigation relating to claims handling and insurance sales practices. The resolution and implications of new underwriting, claims and coverage issues could have a negative effect on our insurance business by extending coverage beyond our underwriting intent, increasing the size of claims or otherwise requiring us to change our business practices. The effects of unforeseen emerging claim and coverage issues could negatively impact our revenues, results of operations and our reputation. Our inability to retain our senior executives and other key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our success depends, in part, upon the ability of our executive management and other key personnel to implement our business strategy and on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. The loss of senior executives or our failure to attract and develop talented new executives and managers could adversely affect our business and the market price for our common shares. We are subject to comprehensive regulation and our ability to earn profits may be restricted by these regulations. We are subject to comprehensive regulation by government agencies in the states and foreign jurisdictions where our active insurance company subsidiaries are domiciled and, to a lesser degree, where these subsidiaries issue policies and handle claims. Failure by one of our insurance company subsidiaries to meet regulatory requirements could subject us to regulatory action. The regulations and associated examinations may have the effect of limiting our liquidity and may adversely affect results of operations. In addition, state insurance department examiners perform periodic financial, market conduct and other examinations of insurance companies. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel-intensive. In addition to financial examinations, we are subject to market conduct examinations of our claims and underwriting practices. Any adverse findings by insurance departments could result in significant fines and penalties, negatively affecting our profitability. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act was signed into law. Among other things, this law established the Federal Insurance Office within the U.S. Treasury and authorizes it to gather information regarding the insurance industry and submit to Congress a plan to modernize and improve insurance regulation in the United States. Existing insurance-related laws and regulations may become more restrictive in the future or new or more restrictive regulation, including changes in current tax or other regulatory interpretations affecting the ART insurance model, could make it more expensive for us to conduct our business, restrict the premiums we are able to charge or otherwise change the way we do business. For a further discussion of the regulatory framework in which we operate, see the subsection of “Business” entitled “Regulation.” 22 Table of Contents We face competition from companies with greater financial resources, broader product lines, higher ratings and stronger financial performance than us, which may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability and financial strength. The commercial transportation insurance business is highly competitive and, except for regulatory considerations, there are relatively few barriers to entry. Many of our competitors are substantially larger and may enjoy better name recognition, substantially greater financial resources, higher ratings by rating agencies, broader and more diversified product lines and more widespread agency relationships than we do. We compete with large national underwriters and smaller niche insurance companies. In particular, in the commercial specialty insurance market we compete against, among others, Lancer Insurance Company, RLI Corporation, Great West Casualty Company (a subsidiary of Old Republic International Corporation), Northland Insurance Company (a subsidiary of the Travelers Companies, Inc.), Sentry Insurance, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company and American International Group, Inc. In our specialty personal lines our primary competitors are Progressive Corporation and GMAC Insurance Group, and in our Hawaii and Alaska markets, our primary competitors are Island Insurance Company, First Insurance, Dongbu Insurance Company, DTRIC Insurance Company, Alaska National Insurance Company and Zurich Insurance Company. In the moving and storage market we compete against, among others, Zurich Insurance Company and Transguard Insurance Company of America. Our underwriting profits could be adversely impacted if new entrants or existing competitors try to compete with our products, services and programs or offer similar or better products at or below our prices. We have continued to develop ART programs, attracting new customers as well as transitioning existing traditional customers into these programs. Our ART component constituted approximately 55.2% of our gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 54.2% of our gross written premiums for the same period in 2011. We are subject to ongoing competition for both the individual customers and entire programs. The departure of an entire program due to competition could adversely affect our results. We cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions, including legal, regulatory and social responses thereto, may have on our business. Various scientists, environmentalists, international organizations, regulators and other commentators believe that global climate change has added, and will continue to add, to the unpredictability, frequency and severity of natural disasters (including, but not limited to, hurricanes, tornadoes, freezes, large or significant storms and fires) in certain parts of the world. In response, a number of legal and regulatory measures and social initiatives have been introduced in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas and other carbon emissions that may be chief contributors to global climate change. We cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions, if any, will have on us or our customers. However, it is possible that the legal, regulatory and social responses to climate change could have a negative effect on our results of operations or our financial condition. We may have conflicts of interest with our majority shareholder, American Financial Group, Inc., which we would be unable to resolve in our favor. As of December 31, 2012, AFG, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Great American, owns 51.9% of our outstanding common shares. From time to time, Great American and its affiliated companies engage in underwriting activities and enter into transactions or agreements with us or in competition with us, which may give rise to conflicts of interest. We do not have any agreement or understanding with any of these parties regarding the resolution of potential conflicts of interest. In addition, we may not be in a position to influence any party’s decision not to engage in activities that would give rise to a conflict of interest. These parties may take actions that are not in the best interests of our other shareholders. We rely on Great American to provide certain services to us without charge including actuarial and consultative services for legal, accounting and internal audit issues and other support services. If Great American 23 Table of Contents no longer controlled a majority of our shares, it is possible that many of these services would cease or, alternatively, be provided at an increased cost to us. This could impact our personnel resources, require us to hire additional professional staff and generally increase our operating expenses. Your interests as a holder of our common shares may be different than the interests of our majority shareholder, American Financial Group, Inc. The interests of AFG may differ from the interests of our other shareholders. AFG representatives hold five out of ten seats of our Board. As a result, AFG has the ability to exert significant influence over our policies and affairs including the power to affect the election of our Directors, appointment of our management and the approval of any action requiring a shareholder vote, such as amendments to our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation or Code of Regulations, transactions with affiliates, mergers or asset sales. Subject to the terms of our right of first refusal to purchase its shares in certain circumstances, AFG may be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. AFG may also have interests that differ from those of our other shareholders and may vote in a way with which our other shareholders disagree and which may be adverse to their interests. AFG’s majority ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our organizational documents, Ohio corporate law and the insurance laws of Ohio and Missouri could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management or Directors or prevent or delay a merger or sale, which could diminish the value of our common shares. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations, the corporate laws of Ohio and the insurance laws of various states contain provisions that could impede an attempt to replace or remove our management or Directors or prevent the sale of our Company that shareholders might consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include, among others: • a classified Board of Directors consisting of ten Directors divided into two classes; • the inability of our shareholders to remove a Director from the Board without “cause;” • requiring a vote of holders of 50% of the common shares to call a special meeting of the shareholders; • requiring a two-thirds vote to amend the shareholder protection provisions of our Code of Regulations and to amend the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation; • requiring the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of our shares represented at a special meeting of shareholders; • excluding the voting power of interested shares to approve a “control share acquisition” under Ohio law; and • prohibiting a merger, consolidation, combination or majority share acquisition between us and an interested shareholder or an affiliate of an interested shareholder for a period of three years from the date on which the shareholder first became an interested shareholder, unless previously approved by our Board. These provisions may prevent shareholders from receiving the benefit of any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover. In addition, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts. 24 Table of Contents The insurance laws of most states require prior notice or regulatory approval of changes in control of an insurance company or its holding company. The insurance laws of the States of Ohio and Missouri, where our U.S. insurance companies are domiciled, provide that no corporation or other person may acquire control of a domestic insurance or reinsurance company unless it has given notice to such insurance or reinsurance company and obtained prior written approval of the relevant insurance regulatory authorities. Any purchaser of 10% or more of our aggregate outstanding voting power could become subject to these regulations and could be required to file notices and reports with the applicable regulatory authorities prior to such acquisition. In addition, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts. For further discussion of insurance laws, see the subsection of “Business” entitled “Regulation.” ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None. 