ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and operations. Our industry is highly cyclical, and prolonged periods of weak demand or excess supply may reduce our net sales and/or margins, which may reduce our net income or cause us to incur losses. The building products distribution industry is subject to cyclical market pressures. Prices of building products are determined by overall supply and demand in the market for building products. Market prices of building products historically have been volatile and cyclical and we have limited ability to control the timing and amount of pricing changes for building products. Demand for building products is driven mainly by factors outside of our control, such as general economic and political conditions, interest rates, availability of mortgage financing, the construction, repair and remodeling and industrial markets, weather and population growth. The supply of building products fluctuates based on available manufacturing capacity, and excess capacity in the industry can result in significant declines in market prices for those products. To the extent that prices and volumes experience a sustained or sharp decline, our net sales and margins would likely decline as well. Our results in some periods have been affected by market volatility, including a reduction in gross profits due to a decline in the resale value of our structural products inventory. All of these factors make it difficult to forecast our operating results. Further downward changes in demand for housing could negatively impact our business. The residential homebuilding industry is sensitive to changes in economic conditions, including interest rates, foreclosure rates, and availability of financing. Further adverse changes in these conditions could further decrease demand for new homes. Additional declines in housing demand could result in lower pricing and demand for many of our building products which could have increased negative effects on our revenues and operating results. 9 Table of Contents Further disruptions in the capital and credit markets may impact the availability of credit and general business conditions. If the financial institutions which extended credit commitments to us through our revolving credit facility are adversely affected by the conditions of the capital and credit markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under those credit commitments, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow funds, if needed, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other corporate purposes. Continued market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our products and increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay their accounts. Bankruptcies by our customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Certain of our suppliers may potentially be impacted as well, causing disruption or delay of product availability. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to make required payments on our substantial indebtedness and future indebtedness. We have a substantial amount of debt. As of January 2, 2010, advances outstanding under our revolving credit facility were approximately $56.0 million, borrowing availability was approximately $157.1 million and outstanding letters of credit on the facility were approximately $6.0 million. We also have a mortgage loan in the amount of $285.7 million. Our substantial debt could have important consequences to you. For example, it could: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; • expose us to interest rate fluctuations because the interest rate on the debt under our revolving credit facility is variable; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt. In addition, our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations depends on our successful financial and operating performance, cash flows and capital resources, which in turn depend upon prevailing economic conditions and certain financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: • economic and demand factors affecting the building products distribution industry; • pricing pressures; • increased operating costs; • competitive conditions; and • other operating difficulties. 10 Table of Contents If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell material assets or operations, obtain additional capital or restructure our debt. Obtaining additional capital or restructuring our debt could be accomplished in part through new or additional borrowings or placements of debt or equity securities. There is no assurance that we could obtain additional capital or restructure our debt on terms acceptable to us or at all. In the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations, the value realized on such assets or operations will depend on market conditions and the availability of buyers. Accordingly, any such sale may not, among other things, be for a sufficient dollar amount. Our obligations under the revolving credit facility are secured by a first priority security interest in all of our operating company’s inventories, receivables and proceeds from those items. In addition, our mortgage loan is secured by the majority of our real property. The foregoing encumbrances may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations. We also may not be able to restructure our indebtedness on favorable economic terms, if at all. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including under the revolving credit facility. Our incurrence of additional indebtedness would intensify the risks described above. As of January 2, 2010, we have no indications that the financial institutions included in our revolving credit facility would be unable to fulfill their commitments. The instruments governing our indebtedness contain various covenants limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business. Our revolving credit facility and mortgage loan contain various restrictive covenants and restrictions, including financial covenants customary for asset-based loans that limit our management’s discretion in operating our business. In particular, these instruments limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt; • grant liens on assets; • make investments, including capital expenditures; • sell or acquire assets outside the ordinary course of business; • engage in transactions with affiliates; and • make fundamental business changes. If we fail to maintain minimum excess availability of $40 million under the revolving credit facility, the revolving credit facility requires us to (i) maintain certain financial ratios and (ii) limit our capital expenditures. If we fail to comply with the restrictions in the revolving credit facility, the mortgage loan documents or any other current or future financing agreements, a default may allow the creditors under the relevant instruments to accelerate the related debt and to exercise their remedies under these agreements, which will typically include the right to declare the principal amount of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other related amounts, immediately due and payable, to exercise any remedies the creditors may have to foreclose on assets that are subject to liens securing that debt and to terminate any commitments they had made to supply further funds. We depend upon a single supplier, Georgia-Pacific for a significant percentage of our products. Georgia-Pacific is our largest supplier, accounting for approximately 16% and 21% of our purchases during fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. On May 7, 2004, we entered into a multi-year Master Purchase, Supply and Distribution Agreement (the “Supply Agreement”) with Georgia-Pacific. The Supply Agreement had a five-year initial term expiring on May 7, 2009. On June 6, 2008, Georgia-Pacific notified us of its intent to terminate this Supply Agreement, effective May 7, 2010. On April 27, 2009, we entered into a Termination and Modification Agreement (the “Modification Agreement”) related to our Supply Agreement with Georgia-Pacific. The Modification Agreement effectively terminates the existing Supply Agreement with respect to the distribution of Georgia-Pacific plywood, OSB and lumber by us. Exhibit B of the Supply Agreement, which covers 11 Table of Contents decorative paneling products, is excluded from the termination and shall remain in force until May 7, 2010. We will continue to distribute a variety of Georgia-Pacific building products, including Engineered Lumber, which is covered under a three-year purchase agreement dated February 12, 2009. If Georgia-Pacific and BlueLinx are unable to agree on supply arrangements for products other than engineered lumber or if Georgia-Pacific otherwise discontinues sales of product to us, we could experience a product shortage unless and until we obtain a replacement supplier or suppliers. We may not be able to obtain replacement products on favorable economic terms. An inability to replace products on favorable economic terms could adversely impact our net sales and our costs, which in turn could impact our gross profit, net income and cash flows. Our industry is highly fragmented and competitive. If we are unable to compete effectively, our net sales and operating results will be reduced. The building products distribution industry is highly fragmented and competitive and the barriers to entry for local competitors are relatively low. Some of our competitors are part of larger companies and therefore have access to greater financial and other resources than us. In addition, certain product manufacturers sell and distribute their products directly to customers. Additional manufacturers of products distributed by us may elect to sell and distribute directly to end-users in the future or enter into exclusive supply arrangements with other distributors. Finally, we may not be able to maintain our costs at a level sufficiently low for us to compete effectively. If we are unable to compete effectively, our net sales and net income will be reduced. Integrating acquisitions may be time-consuming and create costs that could reduce our operating results and cash flows. We may elect to selectively pursue acquisitions. Any integration process may be complex and time consuming, may be disruptive to the business and may cause an interruption of, or a distraction of management’s attention from, the business as a result of a number of obstacles, including but not limited to: • the loss of key customers of the acquired company; • the incurrence of unexpected expenses and working capital requirements; • a failure of our due diligence process to identify significant issues or contingencies; • difficulties assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; • difficulties effectively integrating the acquired technologies with our current technologies; • our inability to retain key personnel of acquired entities; • failure to maintain the quality of customer service; • our inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; and • difficulty in maintaining internal controls, procedures and policies. Any of the foregoing obstacles, or a combination of them, could increase selling, general and administrative expenses in absolute terms and/or as a percentage of net sales, which could in turn negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, future acquisitions are accompanied by the risk that the obligations and liabilities of an acquired company may not be adequately reflected in the historical financial statements of that company and the risk that those historical financial statements may be based on assumptions which are incorrect or inconsistent with our assumptions or approach to accounting policies. Any of these material obligations, liabilities or incorrect or inconsistent assumptions could adversely impact our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents A significant percentage of our employees are unionized. Wage increases or work stoppages by our unionized employees may reduce our results of operations. As of January 2, 2010, approximately 30% of our employees were represented by various labor unions. As of January 2, 2010, we had 46 collective bargaining agreements, of which 8, covering 51 total employees, are up for renewal in 2010. We may become subject to material cost increases, or additional work rules imposed by agreements with labor unions. The foregoing could increase our selling, general and administrative expenses in absolute terms and/or as a percentage of net sales. In addition, work stoppages or other labor disturbances may occur in the future, which could adversely impact our net sales and/or selling, general and administrative expenses. All of these factors could negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. Increases in the cost of employee benefits, such as pension and other postretirement benefits, could impact our financial results and cash flow. Unfavorable changes in the cost of our pension retirement benefits and current employees’ medical benefits could materially impact our financial results and cash flow. We sponsor a number of defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of our hourly employees. Our estimates of the amount and timing of our future funding obligations for our defined benefit pension plans are based upon various assumptions. These assumptions include, but are not limited to, the discount rate, projected return on plan assets, compensation increase rates, mortality rates, retirement patterns, and turnover rates. In addition, the amount and timing of our pension funding obligations can be influenced by funding requirements that are established by the Employee Retirement Income and Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), the Pension Protection Act, Congressional Acts, or other governing bodies. During 2009, we met our required contribution to our defined benefit pension plans. As of January 2, 2010, the net unfunded status of our benefit plan was $17.9 million. If the status of our defined benefit plan continues to be unfunded it could require future cash contributions. We participate in various multi-employer pension plans in the U.S. The majority of these plans are underfunded. If, in the future, we choose to withdraw from these plans, we would likely need to record a withdrawal liability, which may be material to our financial results. The payment of dividends has been suspended, and resumption is dependant on business conditions, among other factors; the instruments governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that may limit our ability to pay dividends. In the past we have paid dividends on our common stock at the quarterly rate of $0.125 per share. However, on December 5, 2007, we suspended the payment of dividends on our common stock for an indefinite period of time. Resumption of the payment of dividends will depend on, among other things, business conditions in the housing industry, our results of operations, cash requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. Accordingly, we may not be able to resume the payment of dividends at the same quarterly rate in the future, if at all. Federal and state transportation regulations could impose substantial costs on us which would reduce our net income. We use our own fleet of over 600 trucks and over 1,100 trailers to service customers throughout the United States. The U.S. Department of Transportation, or DOT, regulates our operations in domestic interstate commerce. We are subject to safety requirements governing interstate operations prescribed by the DOT. Vehicle dimensions and driver hours of service also remain subject to both federal and state regulation. More restrictive limitations on vehicle weight and size, trailer length and configuration, or driver hours of service would increase our costs, which, if we are unable to pass these cost increases on to our customers increase our selling, general and administrative expenses and reduce our operating results. 13 Table of Contents Environmental laws impose risks and costs on us. Our operations are subject to federal, state, provincial and local laws, rules and regulations governing the protection of the environment, including, but not limited to, those regulating discharges into the air and water, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, the management of wastes, the cleanup of contamination and the control of noise and odors. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures to comply with these requirements. While we believe, based upon current information, that we are in substantial compliance with all applicable environmental laws, rules and regulations, we could be subject to potentially significant fines or penalties for any failure to comply. Moreover, under certain environmental laws, a current or previous owner or operator of real property, and parties that generate or transport hazardous substances that are disposed of at that real property, may be held liable for the cost to investigate or clean up such real property and for related damages to natural resources. We may be subject to liability, including liability for investigation and cleanup costs, if contamination is discovered at one of our current or former warehouse facilities, or at a landfill or other location where we have disposed of, or arranged for the disposal of, wastes. Georgia-Pacific has agreed to indemnify us against any claim arising from environmental conditions that existed prior to May 7, 2004. We also carry environmental insurance. However, any remediation costs not related to conditions existing prior to May 7, 2004 may not be covered by indemnification. In addition, certain remediation costs may not be covered by insurance. In addition, we could be subject to claims brought pursuant to applicable laws, rules or regulations for property damage or personal injury resulting from the environmental impact of our operations. Increasingly stringent environmental requirements, more aggressive enforcement actions, the discovery of unknown conditions or the bringing of future claims may cause our expenditures for environmental matters to increase, and we may incur material costs associated with these matters. Affiliates of Cerberus control us and may have conflicts of interest with other shareholders in the future. Funds and accounts managed by Cerberus or its affiliated management companies, which are referred to collectively as the controlling shareholder, collectively own approximately 55% of our common stock. As a result, the controlling shareholder will continue to be able to control the election of our directors, determine our corporate and management policies and determine, without the consent of our other shareholders, the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our shareholders for approval, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. Five of our ten directors are employees of or advisors to Cerberus. The controlling shareholder also has sufficient voting power to amend our organizational documents. The interests of the controlling shareholder may not coincide with the interests of other holders of our common stock. Additionally, the controlling shareholder is in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. The controlling shareholder may also pursue, for its own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the controlling shareholder continues to own a significant amount of the outstanding shares of our common stock, it will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions, including potential mergers or acquisitions, asset sales and other significant corporate transactions. In addition, because we are a controlled company within the meaning of the New York Stock Exchange rules, we are exempt from the NYSE requirements that our board be composed of a majority of independent directors, and that our compensation and nominating/corporate governance committees be composed entirely of independent directors. Even if Cerberus no longer controls us in the future, certain provisions of our charter documents and agreements and Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that: • permit us to issue, without any further vote or action by the shareholders, up to 30 million shares of preferred stock in one or more series and, with respect to each series, to fix the number of shares constituting the series and the designation of the series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of such series, and the preferences and other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions, of the shares of the series; and • limit the shareholders’ ability to call special meetings. 14 Table of Contents These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or the DGCL, which also imposes certain restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our common stock. Further, certain of our incentive plans provide for vesting of stock options and/or payments to be made to our employees in connection with a change of control, which could discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition at a premium price. We may incur substantial costs relating to Georgia-Pacific’s product liability related claims. Georgia-Pacific is a defendant in suits brought in various courts around the nation by plaintiffs who allege that they have suffered personal injury as a result of exposure to products containing asbestos. These suits allege a variety of lung and other diseases based on alleged exposure to products previously manufactured by Georgia-Pacific. Although the terms of the asset purchase agreement provide that Georgia-Pacific will indemnify us against all obligations and liabilities arising out of, relating to or otherwise in any way in respect of any product liability claims (including, without limitation, claims, obligations or liabilities relating to the presence or alleged presence of asbestos-containing materials) with respect to products purchased, sold, marketed, stored, delivered, distributed or transported by Georgia-Pacific and its affiliates, including the Division prior to the acquisition, it could be possible that circumstances may arise under which asbestos-related claims against Georgia-Pacific could cause us to incur substantial costs. For example, in the event that Georgia-Pacific is financially unable to respond to an asbestos product liability claim, plaintiffs’ lawyers may, in order to obtain recovery, attempt to sue us, in our capacity as owner of assets sold by Georgia-Pacific, despite the fact that the assets sold to us did not contain asbestos. Asbestos litigation has, over the years, proved unpredictable, as the aggressive and well-financed asbestos plaintiffs’ bar has been creative, and often successful, in bringing claims based on novel legal theories and on expansive interpretations of existing legal theories. These claims have included claims against companies that did not manufacture asbestos products. As a result of these factors, a number of companies have been held liable for amounts far in excess of their perceived exposure. Although we believe, based on our understanding of the law as currently interpreted, that we should not be held liable for any of Georgia-Pacific’s asbestos-related claims, and, to the contrary, that we would prevail on summary judgment on any such claims, there is nevertheless a possibility that new theories could be developed, or that the application of existing theories could be expanded, in a manner that would result in liability for us. Any such liability could ultimately be borne by us if Georgia-Pacific is unable to fulfill its indemnity obligation under the asset purchase agreement with us. Anti-terrorism measures may harm our business by impeding our ability to deliver products on a timely and cost-effective basis. In the event of future terrorist attacks or threats on the United States, federal, state and local authorities could implement various security measures, including checkpoints and travel restrictions on large trucks. Our customers typically need quick delivery and rely on our on-time delivery capabilities. If security measures disrupt or impede the timing of our deliveries, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may incur increased expenses to do so. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 15 Table of Contents 