Item 1A. Risk Factors We expect to be in covenant default under our outstanding $330.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.25% Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 (the “Notes”) during the second fiscal quarter of 2011. In addition, we expect to be in covenant default under our Senior Credit Facility during the third quarter of 2011. If we are unable to return to compliance, the indenture trustee for the Notes and our lenders under the Senior Credit Facility may exercise remedies that would have a material adverse effect on us and our shareholders. On May 21, 2011, we expect to be in covenant default under the indenture relating to our Notes. In addition, we expect that we will be in covenant default under our Senior Credit Facility during the third quarter of 2011. The remedies available to the indenture trustee in the event of default include acceleration of all principal and interest payments. Acceleration by the indenture trustee would create a default in our Senior Credit Facility and other loans and financing arrangements due to cross default provisions contained in those agreements. If any of our lenders or the indenture trustee accelerate the principal and interest payments we may be forced to seek protection under federal bankruptcy laws. Such relief would materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders. 12 Table of Contents We are currently in discussions with our lenders to implement a restructuring of our financial obligations, including waivers of expected defaults. There can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful and we could be forced to seek reorganization under federal bankruptcy laws. As of December 26, 2010, we had an aggregate of approximately $523.8 million principal amount in convertible senior notes, term loans and revolving credit facility that must be repaid, renewed or extended by August 15, 2012. As of the date of this filing, the principal amount in convertible senior notes, term loans and revolving credit facility has increased to $576.6 million. The maturity of the term loan and revolving credit facility will accelerate to February 15, 2012 if the convertible notes are not refinanced or an acceptable plan to refinance is not in place by that date. We expect to be in default under our Notes and our Senior Credit Facility commencing the second and third quarters of 2011, respectively. In addition, we have significant indebtedness coming due in 2012 if not accelerated prior to the maturity or in 2011 if accelerated prior to maturity. We are seeking waivers with respect to our expected defaults and are seeking to restructure our financial obligations in order to preserve our liquidity and enable us to continue operating. However, there can be no assurance that waivers will be received or that our obligations will be restructured. If the waivers are not cured within applicable time periods, if any, and if waivers or other relief are not obtained, we could be forced to seek reorganization under federal bankruptcy laws. Our Cash Flows and Capital Resources May Be Insufficient to Make Required Payments on Our Substantial Indebtedness and Future Indebtedness. As of December 26, 2010, on a consolidated basis, we had (i) $523.8 million of outstanding funded long-term debt (exclusive of capital lease obligations of $9.2 million and outstanding letters of credit with an aggregate face amount of $11.3 million), (ii) approximately $229.6 million of aggregate trade payables, accrued liabilities and other balance sheet liabilities (other than the long-term debt referred to above) and (iii) a funded debt-to-equity ratio of approximately 13.2:1.0. Because we have substantial debt, we require significant amounts of cash to fund our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate cash to meet scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to our debt depends on our financial and operating performance which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the following financial and business factors, some of which may be beyond our control: • operating difficulties; • increased operating costs; • increased fuel costs; • general economic conditions; • decreased demand for our services; • market cyclicality; • tariff rates; • prices for our services; • the actions of competitors; • regulatory developments; and • delays in implementing strategic projects. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain additional equity capital, or restructure or 13 Table of Contents refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In particular, in the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service obligations, we cannot be sure as to the timing of such dispositions or the proceeds that we would realize from those dispositions. The value realized from such dispositions will depend on market conditions and the availability of buyers, and, consequently, any such disposition may not, among other things, result in sufficient cash proceeds to repay our indebtedness. Also, the senior credit facility contains covenants that may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Further, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, given the uncertainty of prevailing market conditions from time to time, our high levels of indebtedness and the various debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the senior credit facility. If we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, the economic terms on which such indebtedness is restructured, refinanced or obtained may not be favorable to us. We may incur substantial indebtedness in the future. The terms of the senior credit facility permit us to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness under certain circumstances. As of December 26, 2010, we had approximately $62.4 million of effective borrowing availability under the revolving credit facility, subject to compliance with the financial and other covenants and the other terms set forth therein. Our incurrence of additional indebtedness would intensify the risk that our future cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our substantial indebtedness. Our Substantial Indebtedness and Future Indebtedness Could Significantly Impair Our Operating and Financial Condition. The required payments on our substantial indebtedness and future indebtedness, as well as the restrictive covenants contained in the senior credit facility could significantly impair our operating and financial condition. Because of our substantial fixed costs combined with our substantial indebtedness, a decrease in revenues results in a disproportionately greater percentage decrease in earnings and affects our ability to comply with the covenants in our revolving credit facility. In addition, these required payments and restrictive covenants could: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; • expose us to interest rate fluctuations because the interest rate on the debt under our revolving credit facility is variable; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt. We may incur substantial indebtedness in the future. Our incurrence of additional indebtedness would intensify the risks described above. 14 Table of Contents If We do not Meet the New York Stock Exchange Continued Listing Requirements, Our Common Stock May be Delisted, and We May be Required to Repurchase or Refinance Our 4.25% Convertible Notes Due 2012. In order to maintain our listing on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), we must continue to meet the NYSE minimum share price listing rule, the minimum market capitalization rule and other continued listing criteria. If our common stock were delisted, it could (i) reduce the liquidity and market price of our common stock; (ii) negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing and access the public capital markets; and (iii) materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if our common stock is not listed on the NYSE or another national exchange, holders of our 4.25% convertible notes due 2012 will be entitled to require us to repurchase their convertible notes. Our senior secured credit facility provides that the occurrence of this repurchase right constitutes a default under such facility. Further issuances of our common stock could be dilutive. We may issue additional shares of our common stock, or other securities convertible into our common stock, to repay our existing indebtedness or for working capital. If we issue additional shares of our common stock in the future, it may have a dilutive effect on the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. We Pled Guilty to a Charge of Violating Federal Antitrust Laws and are Subject to a Material Criminal Penalty That May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. On April 17, 2008, we received a federal grand jury subpoena and search warrant from the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida seeking information regarding an investigation by the Antitrust Division of the DOJ into possible antitrust violations in the domestic ocean shipping business. On February 23, 2011, we entered into a plea agreement with the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice whereby we agreed to plead guilty to a charge of violating federal antitrust laws solely with respect to the Puerto Rico tradelane and agreed to pay a fine of $45.0 million over five years without interest. The fine is payable over a five-year period as follows: $1.0 million within 30 days after imposition of the sentence by the court, $1.0 million on the first anniversary thereafter, $3.0 million on the second anniversary, $5.0 million on the third anniversary, $15.0 million on the fourth anniversary, and $20.0 million on the fifth anniversary. The payment of the fine may have a substantial and material effect on our financial position, liquidity and cash flow. Numerous Purported Class Action Lawsuits Related to the Subject of the Antitrust Investigations Have Been Filed Against Us and We May Be Subject to Civil Liabilities. Subsequent to the commencement of the DOJ investigation, fifty-eight purported class action lawsuits were filed against us and other domestic shipping carriers by direct purchasers alleging price-fixing in violation of the Sherman Act. The complaints seek treble monetary damages, costs, attorneys’ fees, and an injunction against the allegedly unlawful conduct. Thirty-two of the federal cases have been consolidated by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation in the District of Puerto Rico and relate to the Puerto Rico tradelane. A similar complaint was filed in Duval County, Florida, against us and other domestic shipping carriers by a customer alleging price-fixing in violation of the Florida Antitrust Act and the Florida Deceptive and Unlawful Trade Practices Act. In connection with the Puerto Rico multidistrict litigation (“MDL”), we have entered into a class action settlement, subject to final court approval, and have agreed to pay $20.0 million and to certain base-rate freezes. We have paid $10.0 million into an escrow account pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement. We cannot predict or determine the timing or final outcomes of the settlement or the lawsuits and are unable to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from unfavorable outcomes but, adverse results in some or all of these legal proceedings could be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 15 Table of Contents A securities class action lawsuit was filed in the District of Delaware against us. The lawsuit alleges that the defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions, including with respect to the alleged price-fixing and violations of the Sherman Act, causing the plaintiffs to pay inflated prices for our shares. The securities litigation seeks unspecified monetary damages, among other things. If we are required to make a payment as a result of a judgment in the securities litigation, it could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. We may be required to make significant payments to customers in connection with antitrust-related proceedings. Several customers have elected to opt-out of the Puerto Rico settlement, and those customers may file lawsuits containing allegations similar to those made in the putative class actions and seek the same type of damages under the Sherman Act as sought in the putative class actions. We may be required to make payments in settlement or as a result of a final judgment to entities that may commence proceedings against us in amounts that are not determinable. The existence of these proceedings also could have a material adverse affect on our ability to access the capital markets to raise additional funds to refinance indebtedness or for other purposes. Therefore, claims against us and any future claims could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. We are not able to determine whether or not any actions will be brought against us or whether or not a negative outcome would be probable if brought against us, or a reasonable range for any such outcome, and have made no provisions for any potential proceedings in our financial statements. Given the volume of commerce involved in the Puerto Rico shipping business, an adverse ruling in a potential civil antitrust proceeding could subject us to substantial civil damages given the treble damages provisions of the Sherman Act. In addition, we have actively engaged in discussions with a number of our customers regarding the subject matter of the DOJ investigations. We have reached commercial agreements or are seeking to renew commercial agreements with certain of our major customers, with the condition that the customer relinquishes all claims arising out of the matters that are the subject of the antitrust investigations. In some cases, we have agreed to, or are seeking to agree to, future discounts. Any potential future discounts would be charged against operating revenue if and when the discount is earned and certain other criteria are met. It is possible that we will be required to enter into similar arrangements to settle other existing and potential antitrust claims, and these discounts may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have Incurred Significant Costs in Connection with the Antitrust-Related Proceedings and Any Additional Costs May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Financial Condition, Liquidity and Cash Flow. We have incurred legal fees and costs for antitrust-related investigations and legal proceedings of $5.2 million in fiscal year 2010, $12.2 million in fiscal year 2009 and $10.7 million in fiscal year 2008. In addition to expenses incurred for our defense in these matters, under Delaware law and our bylaws, we may have an additional obligation to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in relation to those matters, and we have advanced, and may continue to advance, legal fees and expenses to certain other current and former employees. Any additional legal costs and fees may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and cash flow. Our Ability to Pay the DOJ Fine, the Puerto Rico Settlement or Any Other Judgment or Settlement is Very Limited, and the Fine, Settlement or Any Other Payments May Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business, Operations and Financial Condition. Our ability to satisfy the DOJ fine of $45.0 million or pay the $20.0 million Puerto Rico class action settlement or pay any other judgment or settlement is limited by our limited cash, limited borrowing capacity, lack of unencumbered assets, limited cash flow and our need to fund necessary capital expenditures, including vessel maintenance and replacement of old vessels. We cannot assure 16 Table of Contents you that we will be able to borrow sufficient money or generate sufficient cash flow to pay such fine, settlement, or any judgments in connection with the antitrust-related matters, and such fine, settlement, or judgments may have a material adverse effect on our business plans, as well as our financial condition and results of operations. We Depend on the Federal Government for a Substantial Portion of Our Business, and We Could Be Adversely Affected by Suspension or Debarment by the Federal Government. Some of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies of the U.S. government, and as a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to federal regulations regarding the performance of our government contracts. In addition, we are required to certify our compliance with numerous federal laws, including environmental laws. Failure to comply with relevant federal laws may result in suspension or debarment. On March 22, 2011, we pled guilty to a charge of violating federal antitrust laws in our Puerto Rico tradelane and we have reported possible antitrust violations in connection with a shipping services contract provided to the United States Department of Defense. In addition, we have been advised that the U.S. Coast Guard and U.S. Attorney’s Office are investigating environmental matters involving two of our vessels. If the federal government suspends or debars us for violation of legal and regulatory requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or prospects. Under Our Credit Agreement Amendment, We Are Not Permitted to Pay Dividends on Our Common Stock and Our Board of Directors Has Decided Not to Pay Dividends at This Time, And We May Not Have Sufficient Cash to Pay Dividends in the Future. We are not required to pay dividends to our stockholders and our stockholders do not have contractual or other rights to receive them. On March 9, 2011, we entered into an amendment to our credit agreement pursuant to which we agreed not to pay dividends on our common stock, and our Board of Directors decided to discontinue paying dividends for the fourth quarter of 2010 and has suspended the payment of dividends indefinitely. As a result of suspending the payment of dividends, shares of our common stock could become less liquid and the market price of our common stock could decline. Our ability to pay dividends in the future will depend on numerous factors, including: • Our obligations under our credit agreement; • The state of our business, the environment in which we operate, and the various risks we face, including financing risks and other risks summarized in this Annual Report on Form 10-K; • Our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity needs and capital resources; • Our expected cash needs, including for interest and any future principal payments on indebtedness, capital expenditures and payment of fines and settlements related to antitrust matters; and • Potential sources of liquidity, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility or possible asset sales. If we are able to pay dividends in the future, we can only pay dividends if our subsidiaries transfer funds to us. As a holding company, we have no direct operations, and our principal assets are the equity interests we hold in our subsidiaries. However, our subsidiaries are legally distinct and have no obligation to transfer funds to us. As a result, we are dependent on our subsidiaries’ results of operations, existing and future debt agreements, governing state law and regulatory requirements, and the ability to transfer funds to us to meet our obligations and to pay dividends. 17 Table of Contents Restrictions in our debt agreements or applicable state legal and regulatory requirements may prevent us from paying dividends. Our ability to pay dividends will be restricted by current to future agreements governing our debt, including our credit agreement, as well as corporate law requirements. We are not permitted to pay a dividend under the restricted payment covenants in the most recent amendment to our credit agreement. Under Delaware law, our Board of Directors may not authorize a dividend unless it is paid out of our surplus (calculated in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation law), or, if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and the proceeding fiscal year. Further Economic Decline and Decrease in Market Demand For the Company’s Services in the Jones Act and Guam Markets Will Adversely Affect the Company’s Operating Results and Financial Condition. A further slowdown in economic conditions of our Jones Act and Guam markets may adversely affect our business. Demand for our shipping services depends on levels of shipping in our Jones Act markets and in the Guam market, as well as on economic and trade growth and logistics. Cyclical or other recessions in the continental U.S. or in these markets can negatively affect our operating results. Consumer purchases or discretionary items generally decline during periods where disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty, and, as a result our customers may ship fewer containers or may ship containers only at reduced rates. For example, shipping volume in Hawaii and Puerto Rico were down approximately 2.5% in 2010 as compared to 2009 as a result of the slow economic recovery. The economic downturn in our tradelanes has negatively affected our earnings. We cannot predict the length of the current economic downturn or whether further economic decline may occur. Volatility in Fuel Prices May Adversely Affect Our Profits. Fuel is a significant operating expense for our shipping operations. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, variability in the price of fuel, such as we are currently experiencing, may adversely affect profitability. There can be no assurance that our customers will agree to bear such fuel price increases via fuel surcharges without a reduction in their volumes of business with us, nor any assurance that our future fuel hedging efforts, if any, will be successful. Repeal, Substantial Amendment, or Waiver of the Jones Act or Its Application Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. If the Jones Act was to be repealed, substantially amended, or waived and, as a consequence, competitors with lower operating costs by utilizing their ability to acquire and operate foreign-flag and foreign-built vessels were to enter any of our Jones Act markets, our business would be materially adversely affected. In addition, our advantage as a U.S.-citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be eroded by periodic efforts and attempts by foreign interests to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act. If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise altered, the shipping of maritime cargo between covered U.S. ports could be opened to foreign-flag or foreign-built vessels. 18 Table of Contents A Decrease in the Level of China’s Export of Goods or an Increase in Trade Protectionism Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on Our International Business. China exports considerably more goods than it imports. Our service between Asia and the U.S. West Coast generates revenue derived from the shipment of goods from the Asia Pacific region to the U.S. Any reduction in or hindrance to the output of China-based exporters could have a material adverse effect on the growth rate of China’s exports. For example, monetary policy in the U.S. has had the affect of raising the value of the Chinese currency, resulting in Chinese goods becoming more expensive in the U.S. In addition, China has begun permitting trading in its currency in Hong Kong and New York, which may permit the value of China’s currency to fluctuate and impact the price of Chinese goods in the U.S. Similarly, China has recently implemented economic policies aimed at increasing domestic consumption of Chinese made goods. These policies, among many other policies, may have the effect of reducing the export of goods from China and may result in a decrease in demand for shipping. The level of imports to and exports from China could be adversely affected by economic reforms and policies by either the Chinese or the U.S. government, as well as by changes in political, economic and social conditions or other relevant policies of either government. Our international operations expose us to the risk that increased trade protectionism will adversely affect our business. Either the Chinese government or the U.S. government may turn to trade barriers to protect their domestic industries against foreign imports, thereby depressing the demand for shipping. Specifically, increasing trade protectionism in the Asia and U.S. market has caused and may continue to cause an increase in the cost of goods exported from China, the length of time required to deliver goods from China and the risks associated with exporting goods from China. Any increased trade barriers or restrictions on trade between the U.S. and China would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and our financial condition. The Growth of Our New Trans-Pacific Ocean Transportation Service Between Asia and the West Coast of the United States Depends on Continued Increases in World and Regional Demand for Container Shipping, and the Global Economic Slowdown May Impede Our Ability to Grow Our New International Service. The ocean container shipping industry is both cyclical and volatile in terms of both rates and profitability. Rates for container shipping peaked in 2005 and generally stayed strong until the middle of 2008, when the effects of the economic crisis began to affect global container trade, driving rates significantly lower from 2008 to 2010. We launched our international service between Asia and the U.S. West Coast at the end of 2010, when rates remained well below their long term averages but higher than the 2008 trough. Weak conditions in the international containership market will affect our ability to generate cash flows and maintain liquidity. The factors affecting the supply and demand for container shipping are largely outside of our control, and the nature, timing and degree of changes in market conditions are unpredictable. The factors that influence demand for container shipping include: • supply and demand for products shipped in containers; • changes in global production of products transported by containerships; • global and regional economic and political conditions; • developments in international trade; and • currency exchange rates. The cyclical nature of the international shipping industry may continue to drive volatility in freight rates and, in turn, reduce our revenues earnings, and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents The Trans-Pacific Ocean Transportation Market Between Asia and the West Coast of the United States is Highly Competitive, and We May Not be Able to Compete Successfully With Established Companies That Have Greater Resources or Other New Entrants. In December of 2010, we began deploying our five 2,824 TEU capacity Hunter-class containerships in the market between Asia and the U.S. West Coast. This market is highly competitive and capital intensive, as well as fragmented. As a new entrant, we face operational risks associated with establishing and executing our service offering and competitors that have substantially greater resources than we do and have well established reputations and substantial experience in the international marketplace. In addition to these established companies, we could face competition from new entrants into the market. Some owners and operators of vessels in the international market may be receiving direct or indirect support from or be operated by sovereign governments. Competition for the international transportation of containers by sea is intense and depends on price, service, location, and the size, speed, age, and condition of an operator’s vessels. Competitors with greater resources and larger fleets operate in the container shipping industry in the trans-Pacific service between Asia and the West Coast of the Unites States. These service providers may be able to offer lower rates than we can offer, and they may be prepared and able to sustain significant losses in order to maintain market share. Our Trans-Pacific Service Faces a Regulatory and Currency Environment That Does Not Exist in Our Domestic Tradelanes and is Specific to Operating as an Ocean Common Carrier in the International Marketplace. A company that holds itself out to the general public to provide ocean transportation services for cargo between the United States and China is subject to various licensing and regulatory regimes in both countries. The Federal Maritime Commission in the United States and the Ministry of Transportation of P.R.C. in the People’s Republic of China are two of the principal, but not sole, regulatory authorities. Compliance with various regulatory regimes, both foreign and domestic, could increase our costs or result in loss of revenue or both. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange could have similar impacts. Law and regulations impacting international trade and sovereign monetary policy are subject to political conditions and periodic change. Such changes may require us to modify our business plans or strategies and force us to incur greater costs or suffer lost opportunities. Change in Tax Laws or the Interpretation Thereof, Adverse Tax Audits and Other Tax Matters Related to Our Tonnage Tax Election or Such Tax May Adversely Affect Our Future Results. During 2006, after evaluating the merits and requirements of the tonnage tax, we elected the application of the tonnage tax instead of the federal corporate income tax on income from our qualifying shipping activities. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits, and other tax matters related to such tax election or such tax may adversely affect our future results. During the fourth quarter of 2007, a draft of a Technical Corrections Act proposed redefining the Puerto Rico trade to not qualify for application of the tonnage tax. The tax writing committee in Congress removed the tonnage tax repeal language from the Technical Corrections Act before its passage, but there can be no assurance that there will not be future efforts to repeal all, or any portion of, the tonnage tax as it applies to our shipping activities. Our Industry is Unionized and Strikes By Our Union Employees or Others in the Industry May Disrupt Our Services and Adversely Affect Our Operations. As of December 26, 2010, we had 1,890 employees, of which 1,267 were unionized employees represented by seven different labor unions. Our industry is susceptible to work stoppages and other 20 Table of Contents adverse employee actions due to the strong influence of maritime trade unions. We may be adversely affected by future industrial action against efforts by our management or the management of other companies in our industry to reduce labor costs, restrain wage increases or modify work practices. For example, in 2002 our operations at our U.S. west coast ports were significantly affected by a 10-day labor interruption by the International Longshore and Warehouse Union that affected ports and shippers throughout the U.S. west coast. In addition, in 2010 a two day work stoppage at the Port of New York and New Jersey by constituent locals of the International Longshoreman’s Association affected our operations on the U.S. east coast. In addition, in the future, we may not be able to negotiate, on terms and conditions favorable to us, renewals of our collective bargaining agreements with unions in our industry and strikes and disruptions may occur as a result of our failure or the failure of other companies in our industry to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with such unions successfully. Our collective bargaining agreements are scheduled to expire as follows: three in 2011, three in 2012, one in 2013, one in 2014, and two in 2017. Our Employees are Covered By Federal Laws That May Subject Us to Job-Related Claims in Addition to Those Provided By State Laws. Some of our employees are covered by several maritime statutes, including provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act, the Seamen’s Wage Act and general maritime law. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes for these employees, we may have greater exposure for any claims made by these employees than is customary in the United States. Due to Our Participation in Multi-Employer Pension Plans, We May Have Exposure Under Those Plans That Extends Beyond What Our Obligations Would Be With Respect to Our Employees. We contribute to fifteen multi-employer pension plans. In the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by us from any plan which is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Based on the limited information available from plan administrators, which we cannot independently validate, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination would be material to our financial position and results of operations. In the event that any other contributing employer withdraws from any plan which is underfunded, and such employer (or any member in its controlled group) cannot satisfy its obligations under the plan at the time of withdrawal, then we, along with the other remaining contributing employers, would be liable for our proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. We have no current intention of taking any action that would subject us to any withdrawal liability and cannot assure you that no other contributing employer will take such action. In addition, if a multi-employer plan fails to satisfy the minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service, pursuant to Section 4971 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, referred to herein as the Code, will impose an excise tax of five (5%) percent on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency. Under Section 413(c)(5) of the Code, the liability of each contributing employer, including us, will be determined in part by each employer’s respective delinquency in meeting the required employer contributions under the plan. The Code also requires contributing employers to make additional contributions in order to reduce the deficiency to zero, which may, along with the payment of the excise tax, have a material adverse impact on our financial results. 21 Table of Contents Compliance With Safety and Environmental Protection and Other Governmental Requirements May Adversely Affect Our Operations. The shipping industry in general and our business and the operation of our vessels and terminals in particular are affected by extensive and changing safety, environmental protection and other international, national, state and local governmental laws and regulations. For example, our vessels, as U.S.-flagged vessels, generally must be maintained “in class” and are subject to periodic inspections by the American Bureau of Shipping or similar classification societies, and must be periodically inspected by, or on behalf of, the U.S. Coast Guard. Federal environmental laws and certain state laws require us, as a vessel operator, to comply with numerous environmental regulations and to obtain certificates of financial responsibility and to adopt procedures for oil or hazardous substance spill prevention, response and clean up. In complying with these laws, we have incurred expenses and may incur future expenses for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures. Changes in enforcement policies for existing requirements and additional laws and regulations adopted in the future could limit our ability to do business or further increase the cost of our doing business. Our vessels’ operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during the required annual surveys of the vessels. However, there can be no assurance that such certificates and licenses will be renewed. Also, in the future, we may have to alter existing equipment, add new equipment to, or change operating procedures for, our vessels to comply with changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards to meet our customers’ changing needs. If any such costs are material, they could adversely affect our financial condition. We Are Subject to Regulation and Liability Under Environmental Laws That Could Result in Substantial Fines and Penalties That May Have a Material Adverse Affect on Our Results of Operations. The U.S. Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships, implementing the MARPOL convention, provides for severe civil and criminal penalties related to ship-generated pollution for incidents in U.S. waters within three nautical miles and in some cases in the 200-mile exclusive economic zone. The EPA requires vessels to obtain permits and comply with inspection, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Occasionally, our vessels may not operate in accordance with such permits or we may not adequately comply with recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Any such violations could result in substantial fines or penalties that could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and our business. We are Subject to Statutory and Regulatory Directives in the United States Addressing Homeland Security Concerns That May Increase Our Costs and Adversely Affect Our Operations. Various government agencies within the Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”), including the Transportation Security Administration, the U.S. Coast Guard, and U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, have adopted, and may adopt in the future, rules, policies or regulations or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, rules, policies or regulations, compliance with which could increase our costs or result in loss of revenue. The Coast Guard’s maritime security regulations, issued pursuant to the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”), require us to operate our vessels and facilities pursuant to both the maritime security regulations and approved security plans. Our vessels and facilities are subject to periodic security compliance verification examinations by the Coast Guard. A failure to operate in accordance with the maritime security regulations or the approved security plans may result in the imposition of a fine or control and compliance measures, including the suspension or revocation of the security plan, thereby making the vessel or facility ineligible to operate. We are also required to audit these security plans on an annual basis and, if necessary, submit amendments to the Coast Guard for 22 Table of Contents its review and approval. Failure to timely submit the necessary amendments may lead to the imposition of the fines and control and compliance measures mentioned above. Failure to meet the requirements of the maritime security regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. DHS may adopt additional security-related regulations, including new requirements for screening of cargo and our reimbursement to the agency for the cost of security services. These new security-related regulations could have an adverse impact on our ability to efficiently process cargo or could increase our costs. In particular, our customers typically need quick shipping of their cargos and rely on our on-time shipping capabilities. If these regulations disrupt or impede the timing of our shipments, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may increase expenses to do so. Increased Inspection Procedures and Tighter Import and Export Controls Could Increase Costs and Disrupt Our Business. Domestic and international container shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures, referred to herein as inspection procedures, in countries of origin and destination as well as in countries in which transshipment points are located. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of containers or their contents, delays in the loading, offloading, transshipment or delivery of containers and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against exporters or importers (and, in some cases, shipping and logistics companies such as us). Failure to comply with these procedures may result in the imposition of fines and/or the taking of control or compliance measures by the applicable governmental agency, including the denial of entry into U.S. waters. We understand that, currently, only a small proportion of all containers delivered to the United States are physically inspected by U.S., state or local authorities prior to delivery to their destinations. The U.S. government, foreign governments, international organizations, and industry associations have been considering ways to improve and expand inspection procedures. There are numerous proposals to enhance the existing inspection procedures, which if implemented would likely affect shipping and logistics companies such as us. Such changes could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us, including additional responsibility for physically inspecting and recording the contents of containers we are shipping. In addition, changes to inspection procedures could impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo by container uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on Foreign Ownership of Our Vessels Could Limit Our Ability to Sell Off Any Portion of Our Business or Result in the Forfeiture of Our Vessels. The Jones Act restricts the foreign ownership interests in the entities that directly or indirectly own the vessels which we operate in our Jones Act markets. If we were to seek to sell any portion of our business that owns any of these vessels, we would have fewer potential purchasers, since some potential purchasers might be unable or unwilling to satisfy the foreign ownership restrictions described above. As a result, the sales price for that portion of our business may not attain the amount that could be obtained in an unregulated market. Furthermore, at any point Horizon Lines, LLC, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and principal operating subsidiary, ceases to be controlled and 75% owned by U.S. citizens, we would become ineligible to operate in our current Jones Act markets and may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of our vessels. No Assurance Can Be Given That Our Insurance Costs Will Not Escalate. Our protection and indemnity insurance (“P&I”) is provided by a mutual P&I club which is a member of the International Group of P&I clubs. As a mutual club, it relies on member premiums, investment reserves and income, and reinsurance to manage liability risks on behalf of its members. 23 Table of Contents Increased investment losses, underwriting losses, or reinsurance costs could cause international marine insurance clubs to increase the cost of premiums, resulting not only in higher premium costs, but also higher levels of deductibles and self-insurance retentions. Our coverage under the Longshore Act for U.S. Longshore and Harbor Workers compensation is provided by Signal Mutual Indemnity Association Ltd. Signal Mutual is a non-profit organization whose members pool risks of a similar nature to achieve long-term and stable insurance protection at cost. Signal Mutual is now the largest provider of Longshore benefits in the country. This program provides for first-dollar coverage without a deductible. Catastrophic Losses and Other Liabilities Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Such Losses and Liability May Be Beyond Insurance Coverage. The operation of any oceangoing vessel carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophic maritime disaster, mechanical failure, collision, and loss of or damage to cargo. Also, in the course of the operation of our vessels, marine disasters, such as oil spills and other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, and business interruption due to political or other developments, as well as maritime disasters not involving us, labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in loss of revenue, liabilities or increased costs, personal injury, loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. Damage arising from such occurrences may result in lawsuits asserting large claims. Although we maintain insurance, including retentions and deductibles, at levels that we believe are consistent with industry norms against the risks described above, including loss of life, there can be no assurance that this insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages suffered by us from the occurrence of all of the risks described above or the loss of income resulting from one or more of our vessels being removed from operation. We also cannot be assured that a claim will be paid or that we will be able to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Further, if we are negligent or otherwise responsible in connection with any such event, our insurance may not cover our claim. In the event that any of the claims arising from any of the foregoing possible events were assessed against us, all of our assets could be subject to attachment and other judicial process. As a result of the significant insurance losses incurred in the September 11, 2001 attack and related concern regarding terrorist attacks, global insurance markets increased premiums and reduced or restricted coverage for terrorist losses generally. Accordingly, premiums payable for terrorist coverage have increased substantially and the level of terrorist coverage has been significantly reduced. Additionally, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. The reliability of our service may be adversely affected if our spare vessels reserved for relief are not deployed efficiently under extreme circumstances, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. We generally keep spare vessels in reserve available for relief if one of our vessels in active service suffers a maritime disaster or must be unexpectedly removed from service for repairs. However, these spare vessels may require several days of sailing before it can replace the other vessel, resulting in service disruptions and loss of revenue. If more than one of our vessels in active service suffers a maritime disaster or must be unexpectedly removed from service, we may have to redeploy vessels from our other trade routes, or lease one or more vessels from third parties. We may suffer a material adverse effect on our business if we are unable to rapidly deploy one of our spare vessels and we fail to provide on-time scheduled service and adequate capacity to our customers. 24 Table of Contents Interruption or Failure of Our Information Technology and Communications Systems Could Impair our Ability to Effectively Provide Our Shipping and Logistics Services, Especially HITS, Which Could Damage Our Reputation and Harm Our Operating Results. Our provision of our shipping and logistics services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems, especially HITS. We have experienced brief system failures in the past and may experience brief or substantial failures in the future. Any failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service reducing our revenue and profits and damaging our brand. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, or other unanticipated problems at our facilities at which we maintain and operate our systems could result in lengthy interruptions or delays in our shipping and logistics services, especially HITS. Our Vessels Could Be Arrested By Maritime Claimants, Which Could Result in Significant Loss of Earnings and Cash Flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo, lenders and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may enforce its lien by either arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. Moreover, crew members may place liens for unpaid wages that can include significant statutory penalty wages if the unpaid wages remain overdue (e.g., double wages for every day during which the unpaid wages remain overdue). The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the period during which the arrest or attachment is continuing. In addition, international vessel arrest conventions and certain national jurisdictions allow so-called sister-ship arrests, which allow the arrest of vessels that are within the same legal ownership as the vessel which is subject to the claim or lien. Certain jurisdictions go further, permitting not only the arrest of vessels within the same legal ownership, but also any associated vessel. In nations with these laws, an association may be recognized when two vessels are owned by companies controlled by the same party. Consequently, a claim may be asserted against us or any of our vessels for the liability of one or more of the other vessels that we own. We are Susceptible to Severe Weather and Natural Disasters. Our operations are vulnerable to disruption as a result of weather and natural disasters such as bad weather at sea, hurricanes, typhoons and earthquakes. Such events will interfere with our ability to provide the on-time scheduled service our customers demand resulting in increased expenses and potential loss of business associated with such events. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters can result in interference with our terminal operations, and may cause serious damage to our vessels, loss or damage to containers, cargo and other equipment and loss of life or physical injury to our employees. Terminals in the South Pacific Ocean, particularly in Guam, and terminals on the east coast of the continental U.S. and in the Caribbean are particularly susceptible to hurricanes and typhoons. In the recent past, the terminal at our port in Guam was seriously damaged by a typhoon and our terminal in Puerto Rico was seriously damaged by a hurricane. These storms resulted in damage to cranes and other equipment and closure of these facilities. Earthquakes in Anchorage and in Guam have also damaged our terminal facilities resulting in delay in terminal operations and increased expenses. Any such damage will not be fully covered by insurance. We May Face New Competitors. Other established or start-up shipping operators may enter our markets to compete with us for business. Existing non-Jones Act qualified shipping operators whose container ships sail between ports in Asia and the U.S. west coast could add Hawaii, Guam or Alaska as additional stops on their sailing 25 Table of Contents routes for non-U.S. originated or destined cargo. Shipping operators could also add Puerto Rico as a new stop on sailings of their vessels between the continental U.S. and ports in Europe, the Caribbean, and Latin America for non-U.S. originated or destined cargo. Further, shipping operators could introduce U.S.-flagged vessels into service sailing between Guam and U.S. ports, including ports on the U.S. west coast or in Hawaii. On these routes to and from Guam no limits would apply as to the origin or destination of the cargo dropped off or picked up. In addition, current or new U.S. citizen shipping operators may order the building of new vessels by U.S. shipyards and may introduce these U.S.-built vessels into Jones Act qualified service on one or more of our trade routes. These potential competitors may have access to financial resources substantially greater than our own. The entry of a new competitor on any of our trade routes could result in a significant increase in available shipping capacity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We May Not Exercise Our Purchase Options For Our Chartered Vessels. We intend to exercise our purchase options for the three Jones Act vessels that we have chartered upon the expiration of their charters in January 2015. In addition, we have not determined whether we will exercise our scheduled purchase options for the five recently built U.S.-flag vessels that we have chartered. There can be no assurance that, when these options for these eight vessels become exercisable, the price at which these vessels may be purchased will be reasonable in light of the fair market value of these vessels at such time or that we will have the funds required to make these purchases. As a result, we may not exercise our options to purchase these vessels. If we do not exercise our options, we may need to renew our existing charters for these vessels or charter replacement vessels. There can be no assurance that our existing charters will be renewed, or, if renewed, that they will be renewed at favorable rates, or, if not renewed, that we will be able to charter replacement vessels at favorable rates. We May Face Significant Costs As the Vessels Currently in Our Fleet Age. We believe that each of the vessels we currently operate has an estimated useful life of approximately 45 years from the year it was built. As of the date hereof, the average age of our active vessels is approximately 23 years and the average age of our Jones Act vessels is approximately 33 years. We expect to incur increasing costs to operate and maintain the vessels in good condition as they age. Eventually, these vessels will need to be replaced. We may not be able to replace our existing vessels with new vessels based on uncertainties related to financing, timing and shipyard availability. We May Face Unexpected Substantial Dry-Docking Costs For Our Vessels. Our vessels are dry-docked periodically to comply with regulatory requirements and to effect maintenance and repairs, if necessary. The cost of such repairs at each dry-docking are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial. Our established processes have enabled us to make on average six dry-dockings per year over the last five years with a minimal impact on schedule. There are some years when we have more than the average of six dry-dockings annually. In addition, our vessels may have to be dry-docked in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage. Our insurance may not cover all of these costs. Large unpredictable repair and dry-docking expenses could significantly decrease our profits. Our Recent Change of Chief Executive Officer May be Viewed Negatively and Could Have an Adverse Impact on Our Business, and if We Do Not Successfully Manage the Transitions Associated with Our New Management Team, It Could Have an Adverse Impact on Our Business. The leadership and expertise of Charles G. Raymond, our former CEO, and his long-standing relationships with customers has been instrumental in our success. His recent retirement as CEO 26 Table of Contents could have material adverse affect on our business. In addition, our board of directors recently appointed Stephen Fraser, a current board member, to act as interim CEO to replace Mr. Raymond, until a replacement is identified. Investors, employees, customers and others could react negatively to this and any future executive management transitions. Our future success will be dependent upon Mr. Fraser’s ability and any permanent replacement CEO’s ability to gain proficiency in leading our Company, his ability to implement and adapt our business strategy and his ability to develop key professional relationships. It is important for us to successfully manage these transitions as our failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. In addition, we will incur additional expenses associated with the compensation of our former CEO, our interim CEO and any permanent CEO. Loss of Any Additional Personnel Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Our ability to successfully manage our business during any management transition will depend, in significant part, upon the continued services of Michael T. Avara, our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Brian W. Taylor, our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers could adversely affect our future operating results because of their experience and knowledge of our business. If key employees depart, we may have to incur significant costs to replace them and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace them in a timely manner. We do not expect to maintain key person insurance on any of our executive officers. We are Subject to, and May in the Future Be Subject to, Disputes, or Legal or Other Proceedings, That Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for disputes, or legal or other proceedings, from time to time relating to labor and employment matters, personal injury and property damage, environmental matters and other matters, as discussed in the other risk factors disclosed in this Form 10-K. In addition, as a common carrier, our tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with our customers are governed by extensive and complex foreign, federal, state and local regulations which are the subject of disputes or administrative and/or judicial proceedings from time to time. These disputes, individually or collectively, could harm our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business. If these disputes develop into proceedings, these proceedings, individually or collectively, could involve significant expenditures by us or result in significant changes to our tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with our customers that could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and profitability. Our Secured Credit Facility Exposes Us to the Variability of Interest Rates. The term loan and revolving credit portions of our senior credit facility bear interest at variable rates. As of December 26, 2010, we had outstanding a $93.8 million term loan and $100.0 million under the revolving credit facility, which bear interest at variable rates. The interest rates applicable to the senior credit facility vary with the prevailing corporate base rate offered by the administrative agent under the senior credit facility or with LIBOR. If these rates were to increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds may be reduced and the risks related to our substantial indebtedness would intensify. Each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $0.3 million change in annual interest expense on the revolving credit facility. Accordingly, a significant rise in interest rates would adversely affect our financial results. 27 Table of Contents If Non-U.S. Citizens Own More Than 19.9% of Our Stock, We May Not Have the Funds or the Ability to Redeem Any Excess Shares and We Could Be Forced to Suspend Our Jones Act Operations. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions voiding transfers of shares of any class or series of our capital stock that would result in non-U.S. citizens, in the aggregate, owning in excess of 19.9% of the shares of such class or series. In the event that this transfer restriction would be ineffective, our certificate of incorporation provides for the automatic transfer of such excess shares to a trust specified therein. These trust provisions also apply to excess shares that would result from a change in the status of a record or beneficial owner of shares of our capital stock from a U.S. citizen to a non-U.S. citizen. In the event that these trust transfer provisions would also be ineffective, our certificate of incorporation permits us to redeem such excess shares. However, we may not be able to redeem such excess shares because our operations may not have generated sufficient excess cash flow to fund such redemption. If such a situation occurs, there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the funds necessary to affect such redemption on terms satisfactory to us or at all. The senior credit facility permits upstream payments from our subsidiaries, subject to exceptions, to the Company to fund redemptions of excess shares. If, for any of the foregoing reasons or otherwise, we are unable to effect such a redemption when such ownership of shares by non-U.S. citizens is in excess of 25.0% of such class or series, or otherwise prevent non-U.S. citizens in the aggregate from owning shares in excess of 25.0% of any such class or series, or fail to exercise our redemption right because we are unaware that such ownership exceeds such percentage, we will likely be unable to comply with applicable maritime laws. If all of the citizenship-related safeguards in our certificate of incorporation fail at a time when ownership of shares of any class or series of our stock is in excess of 25.0% of such class or series, we will likely be required to suspend our Jones Act operations. Any such actions by governmental authorities would have a severely detrimental impact on our results of operations. Our Share Price Will Fluctuate. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility over the past year. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to variability in the prevailing sentiment regarding our operations or business prospects, as well as potential further decline of our common stock due to margin calls on loans secured by pledges of our common stock. 28 Table of Contents Environmental and Other Regulation Our marine operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations implemented principally by the United States Coast Guard (“Coast Guard”), Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”), and the United States Department of Transportation (“DOT”), as well as state environmental regulatory agencies. These requirements generally govern the safe operations of our ships and pollution prevention in U.S. internal waters, the territorial sea, and the 200-mile exclusive economic zone of the United States. The operation of our vessels is also subject to regulation under various international conventions adopted by the International Maritime Organization (“IMO”) that are implemented by the laws of the jurisdictions in which we trade, and enforced by the Coast Guard and port state authorities in our non-U.S. ports of call. In addition, our vessels are required to meet construction, maintenance and repair standards established by the American Bureau of Shipping (“ABS”), Det Norske Veritas (“DNV”), IMO and/or the Coast Guard, and to meet operational, environmental, security, and safety standards and regulations presently established by the Coast Guard and IMO. The Coast Guard also licenses our seagoing officers and certifies our seamen. Our marine operations are further subject to regulation by various federal agencies or the successors to those agencies, including the Surface Transportation Board (“STB”, the successor federal agency to the Interstate Commerce Commission), the Maritime Administration (“MARAD,” an agency within the DOT), the Federal Maritime Commission, the EPA, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, and the Coast Guard. These regulatory authorities have broad powers over operational safety, tariff filings of freight rates, service contracts, certain mergers, contraband, pollution prevention, financial reporting, and homeland, port and vessel security. Our common and contract motor carrier operations are regulated by the STB and various state agencies. Our drivers also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the DOT, including certain regulations for drug and alcohol testing and hours of service. The ship’s officers and unlicensed crew members employed aboard our vessels must also comply with numerous safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the Coast Guard, the DOT, and the IMO, including certain regulations for drug testing and hours of service. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”) was enacted and established a comprehensive regulatory and liability regime designed to increase pollution prevention, ensure better spill response capability, increase liability for oil spills, and facilitate prompt compensation for cleanup and damages. OPA is applicable to owners and operators whose vessels trade with the United States or its territories or possessions, or whose vessels operate in the navigable waters of the United States (generally three nautical miles from the coastline) and the 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone of the United States. Under OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless it is determined by the Coast Guard or a court of competent jurisdiction that the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for removal costs and damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels up to their limits of liability, unless the limits are broken as indicated below. “Damages” are defined broadly under OPA to include: • natural resources damages and the costs of assessment thereof; • damages for injury to, or economic losses resulting from the destruction of, real or personal property; • the net loss of taxes, royalties, rents, fees and profits by the United States government, and any state or political subdivision thereof; 29 Table of Contents • lost profits or impairment of earning capacity due to property or natural resources damage; • the net costs of providing increased or additional public services necessitated by a spill response, such as protection from fire, safety or other hazards; and • the loss of subsistence use of natural resources. Effective July 31, 2009, the OPA regulations were amended to increase the liability limits for responsible parties for non-tank vessels to $1,000 per gross ton or $854,400, whichever is greater. These limits of liability do not apply: (1) if an incident was proximately caused by violation of applicable federal safety, construction or operating regulations or by a responsible party’s gross negligence or willful misconduct, or (2) if the responsible party fails or refuses to report the incident, fails to provide reasonable cooperation and assistance requested by a responsible official in connection with oil removal activities, or without sufficient cause fails to comply with an order issued under OPA. In 1980, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) was adopted and is applicable to the discharge of hazardous substances (other than oil) whether on land or at sea. CERCLA also imposes liability similar to OPA and provides for cleanup, removal and natural resource damage. Liability per vessel under CERCLA is limited to the greater of $300 per gross ton or $5 million, unless the incident is caused by gross negligence, willful misconduct, or a violation of certain regulations, in which case liability is unlimited. OPA requires owners and operators of vessels to establish and maintain with the Coast Guard evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to meet their potential liabilities under the OPA. Effective July 1, 2009, the Coast Guard regulations requiring evidence of financial responsibility were amended to conform the OPA financial responsibility requirements to the July 2009 increases in liability limits. Current Coast Guard regulations require evidence of financial responsibility for oil pollution in the amount of $1,000 per gross ton or $854,400, whichever is greater, for non-tank vessels, plus the CERCLA liability limit of $300 per gross ton for hazardous substance spills. As a result of the Delaware River Protection Act, which was enacted by Congress in 2006, the OPA limits of liability must be adjusted not less than every three years to reflect significant increases in the Consumer Price Index. Under the Coast Guard regulations, vessel owners and operators may evidence their financial responsibility through an insurance guaranty, surety bond, self-insurance, financial guaranty or other evidence of financial responsibility acceptable to the Coast Guard. Under OPA, an owner or operator of a fleet of vessels may demonstrate evidence of financial responsibility in an amount sufficient to cover the vessels in the fleet having the greatest maximum liability under OPA. The Coast Guard’s regulations concerning certificates of financial responsibility provide, in accordance with OPA, that claimants may bring suit directly against an insurer or guarantor that furnishes certificates of financial responsibility. In the event that such insurer or guarantor is sued directly, it is prohibited from asserting any contractual defense that it may have had against the responsible party and is limited to asserting those defenses available to the responsible party and the defense that the incident was caused by the willful misconduct of the responsible party. Certain organizations, which had typically insured shipowners before enactment of OPA, including the major protection and indemnity clubs, have declined to furnish an insurance guaranty for vessel owners and operators if they are subject to direct actions or are required to waive insurance policy defenses. OPA allows individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries, and some states have enacted legislation providing for unlimited liability for oil spills as well as requirements for response and contingency planning and requirements for financial responsibility. We intend to comply with all applicable state regulations in the states where our vessels call. We maintain Certificates of Financial Responsibility as required by the Coast Guard and various states for our vessels. 30 Table of Contents In 2010, both houses of Congress proposed legislation to create certain more stringent requirements related to the prevention and response to oil spills in U.S. waters and to increase both financial responsibility requirements and the limits of liability under OPA and increase penalties. Although the U.S. House of Representatives passed spill legislation, the U.S. Senate did not act on that legislation, and thus no legislation was enacted during the 2009-2010 term of Congress. Spill legislation has again been introduced in Congress for its 2011-2012 term. If Congress passes spill legislation, we could be subject to greater potential liability or penalties if any of our vessels has an incident or we could be required to comply with other requirements thereby increasing our operating costs. The Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships and MARPOL Requirements for Oil Pollution Prevention The International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto (“MARPOL”), is the main international convention covering prevention of pollution of the marine environment by vessels from operational or accidental causes. It has been updated by amendments through the years and is implemented in the United States pursuant to the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships. MARPOL has six specific annexes and Annex I governs oil pollution. Since the 1990s, the DOJ has been aggressively enforcing U.S. criminal laws against vessel owners, operators, managers, crewmembers, shoreside personnel, and corporate officers for actions related to violations of Annex I. Prosecutions generally involve violations related to pollution prevention devices, such as the oil-water separator, and include falsifying the Oil Record Book, obstruction of justice, false statements and conspiracy. Over the past 10 years, the DOJ has imposed significant criminal penalties in vessel pollution cases and the vast majority of such cases did not actually involve pollution in the United States, but rather efforts to conceal or cover up pollution that occurred elsewhere. In certain cases, responsible shipboard officers and shoreside officials have been sentenced to prison. In addition, the DOJ has required defendants to implement a comprehensive environmental compliance plan (“ECP”). If we are subjected to a DOJ criminal prosecution, we could face significant criminal penalties and defense costs as well as costs associated with the implementation of an ECP. The United States Clean Water Act Enacted in 1972, the United States Clean Water Act (“CWA”) prohibits the discharge of “pollutants,” which includes oil or hazardous substances, into navigable waters of the United States and imposes civil and criminal penalties for unauthorized discharges. The CWA complements the remedies available under OPA and CERCLA discussed above. The CWA also established the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) permitting program, which governs discharges of pollutants into navigable waters of the United States. Pursuant to the NPDES, EPA issued a Vessel General Permit (“VGP”), which has been in effect since February 6, 2009, covering 26 types of discharges incidental to normal vessel operations. The VGP applies to U.S. and foreign-flag commercial vessels that are at least 79 feet in length, and therefore applies to our vessels. The VGP requires vessel owners and operators to adhere to “best management practices” to manage the 26 listed discharge streams, including ballast water, that occur normally in the operation of a vessel. Vessel owners and operators must implement various training, inspection, monitoring, record keeping, and reporting requirements, as well as corrective actions upon identification of each deficiency. Several states have specified significant, additional requirements in connection with state mandated CWA certifications relating to the VGP. On February 11, 2011, the EPA and the Coast Guard entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) outlining the steps the agencies will take to better coordinate efforts to implement and enforce the VGP. Under the MOU, the Coast Guard will identify and report to EPA detected VGP 31 Table of Contents deficiencies as a result of its normal boarding protocols for U.S.-flag and foreign-flag vessels. However, EPA retains responsibility and enforcement authority to address VGP violations. We have filed a Notice of Intent to be covered by the VGP for each of our ships. Failure to comply with the VGP may result in civil or criminal penalties. The National Invasive Species Act The United States National Invasive Species Act (“NISA”) was enacted in 1996 in response to growing reports of harmful organisms being released into United States waters through ballast water taken on by vessels in foreign ports. The Coast Guard adopted regulations under NISA in July 2004 that impose mandatory ballast water management practices for all vessels equipped with ballast water tanks entering United States waters. These requirements can be met by performing mid-ocean ballast exchange, by retaining ballast water on board the vessel, or by using environmentally sound ballast water treatment methods approved by the Coast Guard. Mid-ocean ballast exchange is the primary method for compliance with the Coast Guard regulations; alternative methods for ballast water treatment are still under development. Vessels that are unable to conduct mid-ocean ballast exchange due to voyage or safety concerns may discharge minimum amounts of ballast water, provided that they comply with recordkeeping requirements and document the reasons they could not follow the required ballast water management requirements. On August 28, 2009, the Coast Guard proposed to amend its regulations on ballast water management by establishing standards for the allowable concentration of living organisms in a vessel’s ballast water discharged in United States waters. As proposed, it would establish a two tier standard. Tier one would set the initial limits to match those set internationally by IMO in the Ballast Water Convention, which has not yet entered into force. These limits are proposed to come into force by January 1, 2012. A limited number of technologies have been approved and may enable some vessels to meet these discharge standards. The tier two standard would be more stringent and cannot be met using existing treatment technology. This second tier, as proposed, would come into effect on January 1, 2017. Although it cannot be predicted with any certainty when the Coast Guard will issue a final rule implementing a new ballast water standard and what discharge standards will be required, the Coast Guard currently estimates that it will publish a ballast water standard in 2011. Upon entry into force of the IMO Ballast Water Convention two of our vessels will be required to have a ballast water treatment system on board by their first survey date after January 1, 2015. All of our remaining vessels will be required to have an approved system on board by their first survey after January 1, 2016. Systems are available that will meet the IMO standards. Both houses of Congress have proposed a number of bills to amend NISA but it cannot be predicted which bill, if any, will be enacted into law. In the absence of stringent federal standards, states have enacted legislation or regulations to address invasive species through ballast water and hull cleaning management, and permitting requirements, which in many cases have also become part of the state’s VGP certification. For instance, California requires vessels to comply with state ballast water discharge and hull fouling requirements. Oceangoing vessels covered by the VGP are prohibited from discharging ballast water in Michigan waters unless the vessel meets Michigan state requirements and obtains a Michigan permit. New York requires vessels to meet ballast water treatment standards by January 1, 2012 with technology that is not available today, but has granted extensions to this deadline until August 1, 2013. Other states may proceed with the enactment of similar requirements that could increase the costs of operating in state waters. The United States Clean Air Act and Air Emission Standards under MARPOL In 1970, the United States Clean Air Act (as amended by the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977 and 1990, the “CAA”) was enacted and required the EPA to promulgate standards applicable to emissions of volatile organic compounds and other air contaminants. The CAA also requires states to submit State Implementation Plans (“SIPs”), which are designed to attain national health-based air 32 Table of Contents quality standards throughout the United States, including major metropolitan and/or industrial areas. Several SIPs regulate emissions resulting from vessel loading and unloading operations by requiring the installation of vapor control equipment. The EPA and some states have each proposed more stringent regulations of air emissions from propulsion and auxiliary engineers on oceangoing vessels. For example, the California Air Resources Board of the state of California (“CARB”) has published regulations requiring oceangoing vessels visiting California ports to reduce air pollution through the use of marine distillate fuels once they sail within 24 miles of the California coastline effective July 1, 2009. More stringent fuel oil requirements are scheduled to go into effect on January 1, 2012. The state of California also began on January 1, 2010, implementing regulations on a phased in basis that require vessels to either shut down their auxiliary engines while in port in California and use electrical power supplied at the dock or implement alternative means to significantly reduce emissions from the vessel’s electric power generating equipment while it is in port. Generally, a vessel will run its auxiliary engines while in port in order to power lighting, ventilation, pumps, communication and other onboard equipment. The emissions from running auxiliary engines while in port may contribute to particulate matter in the ambient air. The purpose of the regulations is to reduce the emissions from a vessel while it is in port. The cost of reducing vessel emissions while in port may be substantial if we determine that we cannot use or the ports will not permit us to use electrical power supplied at the dock. Alternatively, the ports may pass the cost of supplying electrical power at the port to us, and we may incur additional costs in connection with modifying our vessels to use electrical power supplied at the dock. Annex VI of MARPOL, addressing air emissions from vessels, came into force in the United States on January 8, 2009 and it will require the use of low sulfur fuels worldwide in both auxiliary and main propulsion diesel engines on vessels. By July 1, 2010, amendments to MARPOL required all diesel engines on vessels built between 1990 and 2000 to meet a Nitrous Oxide (“NOx”) standard of 17.0g-NOx/kW-hr. On January 1, 2011 the NOx standard will be lowered to 14.4 g-NOx/kW-hr and on January 1, 2016 it will be further lowered to 3.4 g-NOx/kW-hr, for vessels operating in a designated Emission Control Area (“ECA”). In addition, the current global sulfur cap of 4.5% sulfur will be reduced to 3.5% effective January 1, 2012 and be further reduced to as low as 0.5% sulfur in 2020. The recommendations made in connection with a MARPOL fuel availability study scheduled for 2018 at IMO may cause this date to slip to 2025. The current 1.0% maximum sulfur omission permitted in designated ECAs will be reduced to 0.1% sulfur on January 1, 2015. These sulfur limitations will be applied to all subsequently approved ECAs. In addition, the EPA has received approval of the IMO, in coordination with Environment Canada, to designate all waters within 200 nautical miles of Hawaii and the U.S. and Canadian coasts as ECAs. Under EPA regulations the North American ECA will go into force on January 1, 2012 limiting the sulfur content in fuel that is burned as described above. Beginning in 2016, NOx after-treatment requirements become applicable in this ECA as well. EPA has also obtained preliminary approval at IMO for an ECA around Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. With the adoption of the United States ECA, all ships operating within 200 miles of the U.S. coast will be required to burn 1% sulfur content fuel oil as of August 1, 2012 and 0.1% sulfur content fuel oil as of January 1,2015. Our 12 steamships cannot safely burn 0.1% oil without extensive modification to or replacement of their boilers or fuel systems. It is not yet known if such a modification can be designed. EPA has received preliminary approval at IMO to exempt steamships from the 0.1% sulfur content fuel oil requirement until 2020. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Our operations occasionally generate and require the transportation, treatment and disposal of both hazardous and non-hazardous solid wastes that are subject to the requirements of the United States Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) or comparable state, local or foreign 33 Table of Contents requirements. From time to time we arrange for the disposal of hazardous waste or hazardous substances at offsite disposal facilities. With respect to our marine operations, EPA has a longstanding policy that RCRA only applies after wastes are “purposely removed” from the vessel. As a general matter, with certain exceptions, vessel owners and operators are required to determine if their wastes are hazardous, obtain a generator identification number, comply with certain standards for the proper management of hazardous wastes, and use hazardous waste manifests for shipments to disposal facilities. The degree of RCRA regulation will depend on the amount of hazardous waste a generator generates in any given month. Moreover, vessel owners and operators may be subject to more stringent state hazardous waste requirements in those states where they land hazardous wastes. If such materials are improperly disposed of by third parties that we contract with, we may still be held liable for cleanup costs under applicable laws. Endangered Species Regulation The Endangered Species Act, federal conservation regulations and comparable state laws protect species threatened with possible extinction. Protection of endangered and threatened species may include restrictions on the speed of vessels in certain ocean waters and may require us to change the routes of our vessels during particular periods. For example, in an effort to prevent the collision of vessels with the North Atlantic right whale, federal regulations restrict the speed of vessels to ten knots or less in certain areas along the Atlantic Coast of the United States during certain times of the year. The reduced speed and special routing along the Atlantic Coast results in the use of additional fuel, which affects our results of operations. Greenhouse Gas Regulation In February 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (the “Kyoto Protocol”) entered into force. Pursuant to the Kyoto Protocol, countries that are parties to the Convention are required to implement national programs to reduce emissions of certain gases, generally referred to as greenhouse gases, which are suspected of contributing to global warming. In October 2007, the California Attorney General and a coalition of environmental groups petitioned the EPA to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from oceangoing vessels under the CAA. Any passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives in the United States that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could entail financial impacts on our operations that cannot be predicted with certainty at this time. The issue is being heavily debated within various international regulatory bodies, such as the IMO, as well and climate control measures that effect shipping could also be implemented on an international basis potentially affecting our vessel operations. Vessel Security Regulations Following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security within the United States and internationally. On November 25, 2002, the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”) was signed into law. To implement certain portions of MTSA, in July 2003, the Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Similarly, in December 2002, the IMO adopted amendments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (“SOLAS”), known as the International Ship and Port Facilities Security Code (the “ISPS Code”), creating a new chapter dealing specifically with maritime security. The new chapter came into effect in July 2004 and imposes various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities. Among the various requirements under MTSA and/or the ISPS Code are: • on-board installation of automatic information systems to enhance vessel-to-vessel and vessel-to-shore communications; • on-board installation of ship security alert systems; • the development of vessel and facility security plans; 34 Table of Contents • the implementation of a Transportation Worker Identification Credential program; and • compliance with flag state security certification requirements. The Coast Guard regulations, intended to align with international maritime security standards, generally deem foreign-flag vessels to be in compliance with MTSA vessel security measures provided such vessels have on board a valid International Ship Security Certificate that attests to the vessel’s compliance with SOLAS security requirements and the ISPS Code. U.S.-flag vessels, however, must comply with all of the security measures required by MTSA, as well as SOLAS and the ISPS Code if engaged in international trade. We believe that we have implemented the various security measures required by the MTSA, SOLAS and the ISPS Code. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 35 Table of Contents 