Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have a limited operating history and a history of losses. We may be unable to generate sufficient net revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability. We have experienced net losses for each quarterly and annual period since our inception in August 2003. To continue our business plan and generate increased revenues, we must obtain necessary regulatory approvals in many additional jurisdictions. The timing of our revenue generation will be driven in part by our receipt of such approvals in additional jurisdictions and entry into definitive agreements with customers in those jurisdictions. We anticipate that we will continue to incur losses and cash flow deficits during 2008. For the reasons discussed above and elsewhere in this report, it is possible that we may not generate significant revenues or profits in the foreseeable future or at all. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock and may require us to raise additional capital, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our success depends on the PokerPro system achieving and maintaining widespread acceptance by casinos and poker players. Our success depends to a large extent on broad market acceptance of the PokerPro system among casinos and poker players. Even if we demonstrate the effectiveness of the PokerPro system and our business model, casinos and poker players may still not use the PokerPro system for a number of other reasons, including preference for live dealers, mistrust of technology and perceived lack of reliability. We believe that increased acceptance of the PokerPro system by casinos and poker players will depend on the following factors: · our ability to demonstrate the PokerPro system’s economic and other benefits to casinos; · players becoming comfortable with using the PokerPro system; and · the reliability of the hardware and software comprising the PokerPro system. If we fail to obtain or maintain gaming licenses and regulatory approvals, we will be unable to operate our business and license or sell our products. The manufacture and distribution of gaming machines is subject to extensive federal, state, local and tribal regulation. Most jurisdictions require licenses, permits and other forms of approval for gaming devices. Most, if not all, jurisdictions also require licenses, permits and documentation of suitability, including evidence of financial stability, for the manufacturers and distributors of such gaming devices and for their officers, directors, major shareholders and key personnel. Our failure to obtain regulatory approval in any jurisdiction will prevent us from distributing our product and generating revenue in that jurisdiction. Any registrations, licenses, approvals or findings of suitability that we currently have or may obtain in the future may be revoked, suspended or conditioned at any time. The revocation or denial of a license in a particular jurisdiction will prevent us from distributing the PokerPro system in that jurisdiction, and could adversely affect our ability to obtain and/or maintain licenses in other jurisdictions. Gaming authorities in multiple jurisdictions have determined that certain of our executive officers, key employees, directors and significant shareholders are suitable. The inability of an executive officer, key employee, director or significant shareholder to obtain a determination of suitability in a jurisdiction may adversely affect the sale or licensing of our gaming products in that jurisdiction. Gaming authorities in some jurisdictions may investigate any individual who has a material relationship with us and any of our shareholders to determine whether the individual or shareholder is suitable to those gaming authorities. Certain of our executive officers, key employees, directors and significant shareholders have been found suitable in multiple jurisdictions by various gaming authorities. If a gaming authority in any jurisdiction fails to find any of our executive officers, key employees, directors or significant shareholders suitable, we may be prohibited from leasing, licensing or selling our gaming products in that jurisdiction. A finding of suitability is generally determined based upon numerous facts and circumstances surrounding the entity or individual in question and many gaming authorities have broad discretion in determining whether a particular entity or individual is suitable. We are unaware of circumstances that would categorically prevent a gaming authority from finding any of our officers, key employees, directors or significant shareholders suitable. 8 Gehrig H. “Lou” White, our Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and beneficial owner of 19.48% of our common stock, has disclosed in applications for the determination of suitability filed with gaming authorities that the IRS has recently completed an examination of his 2000 and 2001 federal individual income tax returns. The IRS previously issued an examination report showing a proposed income tax deficiency for Mr. White’s 2000 federal income tax return of $410,215 (plus additional interest and penalties attributable to that underpayment of tax) based on a disallowance of certain deductions for charitable contributions that Mr. White made to a foundation he established and mortgage interest that Mr. White paid to Legacy Capital, LLC, an affiliate of Merrill Scott. Merrill Scott is an investment advisor that was placed under receivership in 2002 by the SEC for violations of a variety of federal securities laws in connection with fraud and misappropriations of client funds by the firm through a scheme in which it obtained funds from its clients seeking above-market returns and other benefits. Mr. White is currently appealing the IRS’s proposed income tax deficiency. The IRS examination of Mr. White’s 2001 federal tax return resulted in the issuance of a notice of deficiency for additional income tax in the amount of $75,445 (plus additional interest and penalties attributable to that underpayment of tax). In his original 2001 federal tax return, Mr. White claimed deductions relating to a partnership investment he made after receiving advice from a law firm. The law firm subsequently informed Mr. White that the IRS had challenged the tax treatment of the investment structure and that he should file an amended return. Mr. White then filed an amended federal income tax return for 2001 eliminating the deductions relating to the partnership investment. He also paid the federal income taxes resulting from the elimination of such deductions. The IRS notice of deficiency assessed additional income taxes as the result of disallowing deductions for tax advice in connection with the partnership investment transaction and an accuracy penalty in connection with the losses claimed with respect to that investment. These amounts have been paid, which completes the audit process for Mr. White’s 2001 return. Due to the broad discretionary powers of gaming authorities, it is unknown what effect the IRS examinations of Mr. White’s federal income tax returns may have on Mr. White’s applications for a determination of suitability. If any of our executive officers, certain key employees, directors or significant shareholders is not found suitable in a jurisdiction requiring a finding of suitability, we would be prevented from leasing, licensing or selling our gaming products in that jurisdiction as long as the individual or entity in question remained an officer, key employee, director or a significant shareholder. Such an occurrence would likely delay introduction of our gaming products into such jurisdiction or prevent us from introducing our gaming products in such jurisdiction altogether. Depending on how material such jurisdiction is to our plan of operations, failure to obtain such findings of suitability could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, a finding that one of our executive officers, certain key employees, directors or significant shareholders is not suitable in any jurisdiction may hinder our ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions. Conversely, however, a finding of suitability by one or more gaming authorities does not ensure that similar suitability determinations will be obtained from any other gaming authorities. Although we have the ability to terminate the employment of an executive officer or key employee in the event that such executive officer or key employee fails to be found suitable, such termination would disrupt the management of our company, may trigger severance provisions under certain employment agreements and would likely have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the removal of a director under the provisions of our Amended and Restated Bylaws requires action on the part of our shareholders at a shareholders’ meeting. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that we may redeem at fair market value any or all shares of our capital stock held by any person or entity whose status as a shareholder, in the opinion of our Board of Directors, jeopardizes the approval, continued existence, or renewal of any federal, state, local or tribal license we hold. However, we may not have the funds available for such a redemption, especially if the shareholder in question holds a significant amount of our common stock. We have not determined what action we would take in such event. We will also be prevented from effecting such a redemption if it would violate North Carolina law. If the Johnson Act is found to apply to the PokerPro system, the Department of Justice may institute criminal and/or civil proceedings against us. Gaming devices are regulated at the federal level by the Johnson Act. The Johnson Act broadly defines an illegal gambling device as any machine or mechanical device designed and manufactured primarily for use in connection with gambling and that, when operated, delivers money or other property to a player as the result of the application of an element of chance. We believe the Johnson Act does not apply to the use of the PokerPro system by tribal casinos because several courts have held that electronic aids to permitted Class II gaming devices under the IGRA are not prohibited by the Johnson Act. However, there is no guarantee that our belief is correct. These decisions have focused on the use by tribal casinos of electronic aids to bingo. We are not aware of any court or regulatory body that has considered how the Johnson Act applies to the PokerPro system or any other form of electronic poker table. The Department of Justice, the primary law enforcement entity responsible for enforcing the Johnson Act, has traditionally taken a broad view as to what constitutes a gambling device prohibited by the Johnson Act. It is possible that the Department of Justice may institute criminal and/or civil proceedings against us and that a court may rule that the Johnson Act prohibits the use of the PokerPro system by tribal casinos unless the tribe and state have entered into an appropriate tribal-state compact. Any such proceedings could interfere with our ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. 9 We could face substantial competition, which could reduce our market share and negatively impact our net revenue. There are a number of companies that offer poker-related entertainment or manufacture and distribute automated gaming machines. Most of these companies have greater financial resources than we have. The primary barriers to entry are the establishment of relationships with the owners and operators of casinos and card clubs, the receipt of necessary regulatory approvals and the development of the technology necessary to create an automated poker table. It is likely that our potential competitors will include manufacturers of gaming devices that have already established such relationships and that have received some, if not all, of the regulatory approvals that would be required to market and sell automated poker tables in our target markets. In addition, most of these companies have greater financial resources than we have. Therefore, the barriers to entry discussed above may not pose a significant obstacle for such manufacturers if they sought to compete with us. Our business would suffer if demand for gaming in general, or poker in particular, decreases. We derive substantially all of our revenues from the leasing, licensing and sale of the PokerPro system and from providing related maintenance and support services. Although the popularity of poker in particular and gaming in general has recently been growing in the United States and abroad, gaming has historically experienced backlash from various constituencies and communities. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change and may be affected by changes in the country’s political and social climate. A change in public tastes or a backlash among certain constituencies or in certain communities could result in reduced popularity of poker or increased regulation of the gaming industry, either of which could significantly reduce demand for the PokerPro system. Moreover, the market for the PokerPro system is limited; according to Casino City Press, as of December 2007, there were approximately 6,752 poker tables operating in the United States and Canada and 2,645 outside the United States and Canada. Although we believe that this represents a significant opportunity for the PokerPro system, the number of venues in which the PokerPro system can be placed is finite, as the number of jurisdictions in which gaming is legal is limited. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technology, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our net revenue and increase our costs. Our long-term success will depend to a large degree on our ability to protect the proprietary technology that we have developed or may develop or acquire in the future. We currently have applications for more than 40 patents pending before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that relate to various aspects of the PokerPro system. Patent applications can take many years to issue and we can provide no assurance that any of these patents will be issued. If we are denied any or all of these patents, we may not be able to successfully prevent our competitors from imitating the PokerPro system or using some or all of the processes that are the subject of such patent applications. Such imitation may lead to increased competition within the finite market for the PokerPro system. Even if our pending patents are issued, our intellectual property rights may not be sufficiently comprehensive to prevent our competitors from developing similar competitive products and technologies. Although we intend to aggressively pursue anyone we reasonably believe is infringing upon our intellectual property rights, initiating and maintaining suits against third parties that may infringe upon our intellectual property rights will require substantial financial resources. We may not have the financial resources to bring such suits and if we do bring such suits, we may not prevail. Regardless of our success in any such actions, we could incur significant expenses in connection with such suits. Third party claims of infringement against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products and require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties. We are susceptible to intellectual property lawsuits that could cause us to incur substantial costs, pay substantial damages or prohibit us from distributing the PokerPro system. On March 17, 2008, we were served with a complaint from Lightning Gaming, Inc. and Lightning Poker, Inc. which alleges that we infringed United States Patent No. 7,306,516, owned by Lightning Poker, Inc. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which later may result in issued patents that our products may infringe. If the PokerPro system infringes a valid patent, we could be prevented from distributing the PokerPro system unless and until we can obtain a license or redesign it to avoid infringement. A license may not be available or may require us to pay substantial royalties. We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign the PokerPro system to avoid any infringement. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate, and we may not have the financial and human resources to defend ourselves against any infringement suits that may be brought against us. 10 Defects in, and fraudulent manipulation of, the PokerPro system could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, burden our engineering and marketing resources, involve us in litigation and adversely affect our gaming licenses. Our success will depend on our ability to avoid, detect and correct software and hardware defects and prevent fraudulent manipulation of the PokerPro system. The PokerPro system is subject to rigorous internal testing, and additional testing by regulators in certain gaming jurisdictions. We may not be able to maintain products that are free from defects or manipulation and that continue to satisfy these tests. Although we have taken steps to prevent defects and manipulations, the PokerPro system could suffer such defects and manipulation after it has been widely distributed. Although we do not believe it is likely, it is possible that an individual could breach the security systems of a casino or card club, gain access to the server on which the PokerPro system operates and fraudulently manipulate its operations. The occurrence of such fraudulent manipulation or of defects or malfunctions could result in financial losses for our customers and the subsequent termination of agreements, cancellation of orders, product returns and diversion of our resources. Even if our customers do not suffer financial losses, casinos and card clubs may replace the PokerPro system if it does not perform according to expectations. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of the PokerPro system and loss of licenses and sales. In addition, the occurrence of defects in, or fraudulent manipulation of, the PokerPro system and its associated software may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other disciplinary action by regulatory authorities that could include suspension or revocation of our regulatory approvals. If the network infrastructure of certain of the casinos in which the PokerPro system is or will be installed proves unreliable, market acceptance of the PokerPro system would be materially and adversely affected. We have entered into agreements with customers that operate casinos and card clubs in more than one location. In such cases, our agreement with such customer provides that such customer will be responsible for providing, at its expense, a dedicated high-speed connection between the tables comprising the PokerPro system in the various locations operated by the customer to a remote central server supporting such tables. Failures or disruptions of a customer’s dedicated high-speed connection that result in the stoppage of play or in reduced performance of the PokerPro system could reduce players’ gaming experience, adversely affect the casinos’ or card clubs’ satisfaction with automated gaming devices in general and delay or prevent market acceptance of the PokerPro system. The use of the PokerPro system could result in product liability claims that could be expensive and that could damage our reputation and harm our business. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims. Subject to contractual limitations, we will face financial exposure to product liability claims if the PokerPro system fails to work properly and causes monetary damage to either poker players or casinos and card clubs. In addition, defects in the design or manufacture of the PokerPro system might require us to recall each PokerPro system that has been licensed. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of policies available to us may not be adequate to cover future claims. If a successful claim brought against us is in excess or outside of our insurance coverage, we may be forced to divert resources from the development of the PokerPro system, the pursuit of regulatory approvals and other working capital needs in order to satisfy such claims. We recently experienced changes in our senior management team. The loss of key personnel or the inability of replacements to quickly and successfully perform in their new roles could adversely affect our business. We recently promoted Christopher J.C. Halligan to Chief Executive Officer in September 2007 and hired Mark D. Roberson as our Chief Financial Officer in October 2007. Our success depends to a significant extent on the effective transition of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Moreover, all of our existing personnel, including our executive officers, are employed on an “at-will” basis. If we lose or terminate the services of one or more of our current executives or key employees or if one or more of our current or former executives or key employees joins a competitor or otherwise competes with us, it could impair our business and our ability to successfully implement our business plan. Additionally, if we are unable to timely hire qualified replacements for our executive and other key positions, our ability to execute our business plan would be harmed. Even if we can timely hire qualified replacements, we would expect to experience operational disruptions and inefficiencies during any transition. 11 Our management team’s limited experience in this market could increase costs, hamper our marketing strategies and delay our expansion. The limited experience of our management team in the gaming industry and the market for automated game technology could result in increased operating and capital costs, difficulties in executing our operating and marketing strategies and delays in our expansion strategy. We may not successfully address any or all of the risks posed by this limited experience, and our failure to do so could seriously harm our business and operating results. If we fail to manage our expected growth, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, rapid growth placing significant demands on our operational and financial infrastructure. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our ability to develop and market the PokerPro system and the Heads-Up Challenge products could suffer, which could negatively affect our operating results. Our success will depend on the reliability and performance of third-party distributors, manufacturers and suppliers. We currently obtain the touch screen monitors for the PokerPro system from a single supplier. While changing suppliers for this component is not impossible, doing so would require significant time and effort on the part of our management team and may cause us to miss revenue-generating opportunities until we are able to obtain touch screen monitors from a new supplier. In addition, the supply of the liquid crystal display for the PokerPro system is uncertain and subject to significant backlogs from time to time due to spikes in general demand for such displays. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of third-party suppliers for these displays and for other components. Certain of these competing companies have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and thus we may be at a competitive disadvantage in seeking to procure production capacity. Our inability to contract with third-party manufacturers and suppliers to provide a sufficient supply of our products on acceptable terms and on a timely basis could negatively impact our relationships with existing customers and cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities with potential customers. We also currently rely on Aristocrat, a third-party distributor, to obtain regulatory approvals, market and distribute our PokerPro system outside of the United States and Canada. If Aristocrat is unsuccessful in marketing and distributing our product, we may miss revenue-generating opportunities that might have been recognized by another third-party distributor. We also rely on Aristocrat and our other distributors to market and distribute our Heads-Up Challenge product. If our distributors are unsuccessful in marketing and distributing our product, we may miss revenue-generating opportunities that might otherwise have been recognized. Our failure to obtain any necessary additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our business. In order to execute our business plan, we may need to seek additional equity or debt financing. We may not be able to obtain such additional equity or debt financing when we need it or at all. Even if such financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are favorable to us or in sufficient amounts to satisfy our requirements. If we require, but are unable to obtain, sufficient additional financing in the future we may be unable to further protect our intellectual property sufficiently, meet customer demand for PokerPro systems or withstand adverse operating results. More importantly, if we are unable to raise further financing when required, our continued operations may have to be scaled down or even terminated and our ability to generate revenues would be negatively affected. Enforcement of remedies or contracts against Native American tribes could be difficult. Contracts with Native American tribes are subject to sovereign immunity and tribal jurisdiction. If a dispute arises with respect to any of those agreements, it could be difficult for us to protect our rights. Native American tribes generally enjoy sovereign immunity from suit similar to that enjoyed by individual states and the United States. In order to sue a Native American tribe (or an agency or instrumentality of a Native American tribe), the tribe must have effectively waived its sovereign immunity with respect to the matter in dispute. Moreover, even if a Native American tribe were to waive sovereign immunity, such waiver may not be valid and in the absence of an effective waiver of sovereign immunity by a Native American tribe, we could be precluded from judicially enforcing any rights or remedies against that tribe. 12 Our business is closely tied to the casino industry and factors that negatively impact the casino industry may also negatively affect our ability to generate revenues. Casinos and other gaming operators represent a significant portion of our customers. Therefore, factors that may negatively impact the casino industry may also negatively impact our future revenues. If casinos experience reduced patronage, revenues may be reduced as our games may not perform well and may be taken off of the casino floor altogether. The level of casino patronage, and therefore our revenues, are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including: · general economic conditions; · levels of disposable income of casino patrons; · downturn or loss in popularity of the gaming industry in general, and table and slot games in particular; · the relative popularity of entertainment alternatives to casino gaming; · the growth and number of legalized gaming jurisdictions; · local conditions in key gaming markets, including seasonal and weather-related factors; · increased transportation costs; · acts of terrorism and anti-terrorism efforts; · changes or proposed changes to tax laws; · increases in gaming taxes or fees; · legal and regulatory issues affecting the development, operation and licensing of casinos; · the availability and cost of capital to construct, expand or renovate new and existing casinos; · the level of new casino construction and renovation schedules of existing casinos; and · competitive conditions in the gaming industry and in particular gaming markets, including the effect of such conditions on the pricing of our games and products. These factors significantly impact the demand for our products and technologies. We are launching a new product. The introduction of the Heads-Up Challenge product exposes us to a new market where we have limited experience. This exposes us to all the risks that accompany a new consumer product, including the product may fail to gain market acceptance, we may experience difficulties managing the supply chain from Taiwan or the distributors on whom we rely to distribute the product may not perform at a satisfactory level. We may be adversely impacted by economic factors beyond our control and may not be able to obtain liquid access to our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2007, we had $6.0 million ($3.9 million as of March 31, 2008) of principal invested in auction rate securities, representing interests in collateralized debt obligations supported by pools of student loans backed by The Federal Family Education Loan Program. Auction rate securities are variable rate debt instruments whose interest rates are reset through a dutch auction process at regular intervals, typically every 28 days. During February and March 2008, the remaining $3.9 million in auction rate securities we held failed to sell at auction due to an insufficient number of bidders. If uncertainties in these markets continue, or these markets deteriorate further, we may be unable to liquidate these funds on a timely basis, or may incur an impairment, which could negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and reported earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 