Item 1A. Risk Factors. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Our Portfolio of Loans With a Higher Risk of Loss Is Increasing In recent years, we have increased our originations or purchases of construction and land development loans. These loans have a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans. Construction and land development loans have increased from $24.2 million or 15.9% of our total loan portfolio at September 30, 2003 to $52.4 million or 22.2% of the total loan portfolio at September 30, 2007. At the same time, the percentage of the loan portfolio comprised of single-family residential mortgage loans has decreased. Single-family residential mortgage loans held by Prudential Savings Bank have decreased from 76.0% of our total loan portfolio at September 30, 2003 to 67.9% at September 30, 2007, although the balance of such loans increased. Construction and land development loans generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans. The risk of loss on construction and land development loans depends largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction compared to the estimated cost, including interest, of construction and other assumptions. Furthermore, if the estimates of value prove to be inaccurate, we can be confronted with projects, when completed, having values less than the loan amounts. In addition, such loans have significantly higher average loan balances compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or credit relationship could expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a single-family residential mortgage loan. We may also be required to increase our allowance for loan losses both due to actual losses or the increase in the estimated loss inherent in our portfolio which would reduce our net income. We have also originated or committed to originate substantially larger construction loans in recent periods and our portfolio of such loans is not seasoned. 35 Our loans are concentrated to borrowers in our market area At September 30, 2007, the preponderance of our total loans were to individuals and/or secured by properties located in our primary market area of the Philadelphia metropolitan area. We have relatively few loans outside of our market. As a result, we may have a greater risk of loan defaults and losses in the event of an economic downturn in our market area. Our results of operations are significantly dependent on economic conditions and related uncertainties. Commercial banking is affected, directly and indirectly, by domestic and international economic and political conditions and by governmental monetary and fiscal policies. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, volatile interest rates, real estate values, government monetary policy, international conflicts, the actions of terrorists and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in interest rates, in particular, could adversely affect our net interest income and have a number of other adverse effects on our operations, as discussed in the immediately succeeding risk factor. Adverse economic conditions also could result in an increase in loan delinquencies, foreclosures and nonperforming assets and a decrease in the value of the property or other collateral which secures our loans, all of which could adversely affect our results of operations. We are particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and related uncertainties in Eastern Pennsylvania because we derive substantially all of our loans, deposits and other business from this area. Accordingly, we remain subject to the risks associated with prolonged declines in national or local economies. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as ours are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans; and the fair value of the derivatives carried on our balance sheet, derivative hedge effectiveness testing and the amount of ineffectiveness recognized in our earnings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities (which involves various estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact these assets and liabilities), there can be no assurance that our profitability would not be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business and operations. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect the business and operations of us and our subsidiaries in the future. 36 We face strong competition which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. Our ability to successfully compete may be reduced if we are unable to make technological advances. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. As a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers’ needs by using technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products to our customers. Many of our competitors have far greater resources than we have to invest in technology. We and our banking subsidiary are subject to capital and other requirements which restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders may depend upon the dividends we receive from Prudential Savings Bank. Dividends paid by the Bank are subject to restrictions under Pennsylvania and federal laws and regulations. In addition, Prudential Savings Bank must maintain certain capital levels, which may restrict the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights and are subject to potential dilution. Our articles of incorporation do not provide any shareholder with a preemptive right to subscribe for additional shares of common stock upon any increase thereof. Thus, upon the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other voting securities of Prudential Bancorp or securities convertible into common stock or other voting securities, shareholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata voting or ownership interest in us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 