Item 1A. Risk Factors We have incurred significant net losses from continuing operations in the recent past, and such losses may continue in the future, which may result in a need for increased access to capital. If our cash provided by operating and financing activities is insufficient to fund our cash requirements, we could face substantial liquidity problems. Our net losses from continuing operations were $33.4 million, $74.4 million, and $53.2 million for the fiscal years ending 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. In the event we require capital in the future due to continued losses, such capital may not be available on satisfactory terms, or available at all. Our liquidity derived from our $100.0 million principal amount asset-based revolving credit facility (the “ABL Facility”) is based on availability determined by a borrowing base. We may not be able to maintain adequate levels of eligible assets to support our required liquidity in the future. 8 Table of Contents Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to make required payments on our substantial indebtedness and future indebtedness. We continue to have substantial indebtedness and a stockholders’ deficiency. As of December 22, 2013, on a consolidated basis, we had $502.1 million of funded long-term debt (exclusive of capital lease obligations of $12.4 million and outstanding letters of credit with an aggregate face amount of $12.9 million) compared to $426.4 million of funded long-term debt (exclusive of capital lease obligations of $7.4 million and outstanding letters of credit with an aggregate face amount of $13.2 million) as of December 23, 2012. In addition, as of December 22, 2013, we had approximately $152.1 million of aggregate trade payables, accrued liabilities and other balance sheet liabilities (other than the long-term debt referred to above) and (iii) a stockholders’ deficiency of $43.8 million, resulting in a negative funded debt-to-equity ratio. During 2014, we expect to pay $36.3 million of cash interest under our debt agreements. Because we have substantial debt, we require significant amounts of cash to fund our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate cash to meet scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to our debt depends on our financial and operating performance which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the following financial and business factors, some of which may be beyond our control: • operating difficulties; • increased operating costs; • increased fuel costs; • general economic conditions; • decreased demand for our services; • market cyclicality; • tariff rates; • prices for our services; • the actions of competitors; • regulatory developments; and • delays in implementing strategic projects. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain additional equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In particular, in the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service obligations, we cannot be sure as to the timing of such dispositions or the proceeds that we would realize from those dispositions. The value realized from such dispositions will depend on market conditions and the availability of buyers, and, consequently, any such disposition may not, among other things, result in sufficient cash proceeds to repay our indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness and future indebtedness could significantly impair our operating and financial condition. We continue to face challenges in functioning as a highly leveraged company. Our substantial indebtedness, history of continuing losses, and the substantial liquidity needs we face have and continue to have important consequences to investors and significant effects on our business, including the following: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness and contractual and commercial commitments and, if we fail to comply with these requirements, an event of default could result; 9 Table of Contents • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest on our existing indebtedness, which reduces the funds available to us for other purposes, including our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility to react to changes in our industry and make us more vulnerable to adverse changes in our business or economic conditions in general; and • we may be at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged. The occurrence of any one of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. We may not be able to obtain financing in the future, and the terms of any future financings may limit our ability to manage our business. Difficulties in obtaining financing on favorable terms would have a negative effect on our ability to execute our business strategy. We will need to seek additional capital in the future to refinance or replace existing long-term debt and to fund capital expenditures such as the replacement or repowering of our existing vessels. We may also need to seek additional capital in the future to meet current or future business plans, meet working capital needs or for other reasons. Based on the significant amount of our existing indebtedness and current market conditions, the availability of financing is, and may continue to be, limited. Further issuances of our common stock and the exercise of outstanding warrants could be dilutive. The market price of our common stock could decline due to the issuance or sales of a large number of shares in the market, including the issuance of shares underlying our outstanding warrants, or the perception that these issuances could occur. These issuances could also make it more difficult or impossible for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate to raise funds through future offerings of common stock. In connection with our 2011 comprehensive refinancing, we issued warrants to purchase 982,975 shares of our common stock. In addition, on January 11, 2012, we issued warrants to purchase up to 1,702,592 shares of common stock to complete the mandatory debt-to-equity conversion of approximately $49.7 million of the Series B Notes. In connection with the April 9, 2012 transactions, we issued warrants equivalent to 75,989,794 shares on an as-converted basis. Recent transactions have significantly diluted the ownership interest of holders of our common stock. Any further issuances of our common stock, including the issuance of shares pursuant to the exercise of some or all of the outstanding warrants, could further dilute existing holders of our common stock and could cause the price of our common stock to decrease and the value of each share of our common stock to decline substantially. We may face new competitors or increased competition which may have a substantial impact on our results from operations. The entrant of a new competitor or increased vessel capacity serving any one of our markets may have a disproportionately substantial impact on our results from operations, even if the amount of vessel capacity introduced into that market is not significant. For example, a new competitor deployed a vessel to serve the Puerto Rico market in May of 2013. Although the vessel has limited capacity, we believe that the increase in capacity has impacted rates in the Puerto Rico trade. In addition, one of our existing competitors in the Hawaii market expects to introduce a new vessel during the second half of 2014. 10 Table of Contents Further, one of our existing competitors in the Puerto Rico trade has announced that it has committed to the construction of two new, modern containerships for the Puerto Rico trade, with options for three more vessels for additional domestic service. The first two vessels are expected to be delivered and enter service in 2015 and 2016. Another of our competitors in the Puerto Rico trade recently announced it intends to build two new self-propelled dual purpose (container and roll-on, roll-off) ships. The main propulsion and auxiliary engines will use liquefied natural gas as fuel. The ships are due to be delivered in the second and fourth quarter of 2017. A competitor in the Hawaii trade has also recently announced plans to build two new containerships for use in the Hawaii market. The new ships will feature dual fuel engines that can run on liquefied natural gas and are expected to be delivered in the third and fourth quarters of 2018. These existing and any new competitors may have access to financial resources substantially greater than our own. In addition, existing non-Jones Act-qualified shipping operators whose container ships sail between ports in Asia and the U.S. west coast could add Hawaii or Alaska as additional stops on their sailing routes for non-U.S. originated or destined cargo. Shipping operators could also add Hawaii or Alaska as additional stops on their sailing routes between the continental U.S. and ports in Europe, the Caribbean, and Latin America for non-U.S. originated or destined cargo. The age of our vessels may make it difficult to operate profitably in the markets we serve. We believe that each of the vessels we operate, in its existing state, currently has an estimated useful life of approximately 45 years from the year it was built. In addition, newer vessels are generally more efficient, use less fuel, are faster and have a lower environmental impact than older vessels. Our vessels that are available for seasonal needs and dry-dock relief have an age of 46 and 41 years. In addition, the three vessels that serve our Puerto Rico trade have an average age of 41 years, and the average age of all of our vessels is 35 years. Some of our vessels will need to be replaced soon. We may not be able to replace our existing vessels with new vessels based on uncertainties related to costs, financing, timing and shipyard availability. In addition, as our fleet ages, operation and maintenance costs increase. For example, insurance rates and the costs of compliance with governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards increase as the vessels age. Moreover, the failure to make capital expenditures to alter or add new equipment to our vessels may restrict the type of activities in which these vessels may engage. We cannot assure you that, as our vessels age, market conditions will justify those expenditures or enable us to operate our vessels profitably during the remainder of their useful lives. We may not be able to convert and repower our existing vessels. We previously announced our plan to convert the power plants on two of our steam turbine cargo vessels to modern diesel engines capable of burning liquefied fuels or liquefied natural gas. We believe that these two vessels are structurally viable and the intent is to increase the efficiency of these vessels. However, we may not be able to execute our plan to repower these vessels if we are unable to obtain financing on acceptable terms. Our substantial indebtedness may make it difficult to obtain financing or to satisfy any contractual commitments in connection with the repowering effort. In addition, any shipyard that we choose to perform the repowering work may not be able to meet our specifications for the project and we may not be able to achieve the results that we would expect for the project. If our repowering project is not successful, we may not have sufficient vessel capacity to operate our business as expected and it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or prospects. 11 Table of Contents Certain of our investors hold a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock or securities convertible into our common stock, which could reduce the ability of minority shareholders to effect certain corporate actions. We believe a small group of investors holds over 95% of our outstanding common stock on an as-converted basis. As a result, they possess significant influence and can elect a majority of our board of directors and authorize or prevent proposed significant corporate transactions. Their ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. We face the risk of breaching covenants in the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness and may not be able to comply with such covenants. Our debt agreements contain financial covenants that could cause us to suffer an event of default. Our ability to meet the covenants can be affected by various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will meet those tests. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our debt agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our debt agreements, all amounts outstanding can be declared immediately due and payable. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations, including our ability to repay borrowings under our debt agreements. Under agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness, we are not permitted to pay dividends on our common stock and we may not meet Delaware law requirements or have sufficient cash to pay dividends in the future. We are not required to pay dividends to our stockholders and our stockholders do not have contractual or other rights to receive them. The agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness allow us to pay dividends only under limited circumstances, and pursuant to those agreements, we currently are not permitted to pay such dividends. In addition, under Delaware law, our Board of Directors may not authorize a dividend unless it is paid out of our surplus (calculated in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation law), or, if we do not have a surplus, it is paid out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and the preceding fiscal year. Our ability to pay dividends in the future will depend on numerous factors, including: • our obligations under agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness; • the state of our business, the environment in which we operate, and the various risks we face, including financing risks and other risks summarized in this report; • the results of our operations, financial condition, liquidity needs and capital resources; • our expected cash needs, including for interest and any future principal payments on indebtedness, capital expenditures and payment of fines and settlements related to antitrust and qui tam matters; and • Potential sources of liquidity, including borrowing under our revolving credit facility or possible asset sales. We depend on the federal government for a portion of our business, and we could be adversely affected by suspension or debarment by the federal government. Some of our revenue is derived from contracts with agencies of the U.S. government, and as a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to federal regulations regarding the performance of our government 12 Table of Contents contracts. In addition, we are required to certify our compliance with numerous federal laws, including environmental laws. Failure to comply with relevant federal laws may result in suspension or debarment. In March 2011, we pled guilty to a charge of violating federal antitrust laws in our Puerto Rico tradelane and in February 2012, we pled guilty to a charge relating to environmental record-keeping on one of our vessels. If the federal government suspends or debars us for violation of legal and regulatory requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or prospects. Further economic decline and decrease in market demand for our services will adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. During the second half of 2008, a crisis in the credit markets began to impact the capital markets and produced a global recession. Even with the worst of the crisis believed to have passed, economic conditions remain fragile, and a further slowdown in economic conditions of our markets may adversely affect our business. Demand for our shipping services depends on levels of shipping in our markets, as well as on economic and trade growth. Cyclical or other recessions in the continental U.S. or in these markets can negatively affect our operating results. Consumer purchases or discretionary items generally decline during periods where disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty, and, as a result our customers may ship fewer containers or may ship containers only at reduced rates. Uncertainties experienced by our customers could cause them to reduce the volume of, or discontinue, shipments along certain routes and consequently the revenue stream that we derive from customer contracts. Furthermore, challenging economic times may affect our customers’ ability to gain timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair their ability to pay us in a timely manner. If that occurred, we may cease recognizing revenue from certain customers or increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, and our financial results would be harmed. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery. If the condition of the general economy or other relevant conditions in the Alaska, Hawaii or Puerto Rico markets worsen from present levels, our business could be harmed. In addition, even if the overall economy improves, we cannot assure you that the markets in which we operate will experience growth or that we will experience growth. Our business is concentrated in three markets, including Puerto Rico, and we may continue to be adversely affected by Puerto Rico’s recessionary economic conditions. We conduct most of our operations in three geographically concentrated areas, including Puerto Rico. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on the economic conditions of Puerto Rico. The economy of Puerto Rico entered into a recession in the fourth quarter of the government’s fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. For fiscal years 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, Puerto Rico’s real gross national product decreased by 1.2%, 2.9%, 3.8%, 3.6%, 1.6% and increased by 0.1%, respectively. According to the latest information and projections issued by the Puerto Rico Planning Board, real gross national product for fiscal 2013 is projected to again decrease by 0.3%, and real gross national product for fiscal year 2014 is projected to decrease by 0.8%. The long recession in Puerto Rico has resulted in, among other things, a reduction in demand for goods and cargo in the Puerto Rico trade. The steady reduction in demand for goods and cargo has resulted in pressure on price and utilization of vessel capacity. The continuation of the economic slowdown would cause those adverse effects to continue. If economic conditions in Puerto Rico do not improve, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Volatility in fuel prices may adversely affect our results of operations. Fuel is a significant operating expense for our shipping operations. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing 13 Table of Contents countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, variability in the price of fuel may adversely affect profitability. There can be no assurance that our customers will agree to bear such fuel price increases via fuel surcharges without a reduction in their volumes of business with us, nor any assurance that our future fuel hedging efforts, if any, will be successful. Repeal, substantial amendment, or waiver of the Jones Act or its application could have a material adverse effect on our business. If the Jones Act was to be repealed, substantially amended, or waived and, as a consequence, competitors with lower operating costs by utilizing their ability to acquire and operate foreign-flag and foreign-built vessels were to enter any of our Jones Act markets, our business would be materially adversely affected. In addition, our advantage as a U.S.-citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be eroded by periodic efforts and attempts by foreign and domestic interests to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act. If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise altered, the shipping of maritime cargo between covered U.S. ports could be opened to foreign-flag or foreign-built vessels. In the past, interest groups have lobbied Congress to repeal the Jones Act to facilitate foreign flag competition for trades and cargoes currently reserved for U.S.-flag vessels under the Jones Act. We believe that interest groups may continue efforts to modify or repeal the Jones Act currently benefiting U.S.-flag vessels. If these efforts are successful, it could result in increased competition, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Due to our participation in multi-employer pension plans, we may have exposure under those plans that extends beyond what our obligations would be with respect to our employees. We contribute to twelve multi-employer pension plans. In the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by us from any plan which is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Based on the limited information available from plan administrators, which we cannot independently validate, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination would be material to our financial position and results of operations. In the event that any other contributing employer withdraws from any plan which is underfunded, and such employer (or any member in its controlled group) cannot satisfy its obligations under the plan at the time of withdrawal, then we, along with the other remaining contributing employers, would be liable for our proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Even if we do not take any actions that would subject us to withdrawal liabilities, another contributing employer could take such actions. In addition, if a multi-employer plan fails to satisfy the minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service, pursuant to Section 4971 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, referred to herein as the Code, will impose an excise tax of five percent (5%) on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency. Under Section 413(c)(5) of the Code, the liability of each contributing employer, including us, will be determined in part by each employer’s respective delinquency in meeting the required employer contributions under the plan. The Code also requires contributing employers to make additional contributions in order to reduce the deficiency to zero, which may, along with the payment of the excise tax, have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Compliance with safety and environmental protection and other governmental requirements may adversely affect our operations. The shipping industry in general and our business and the operation of our vessels and terminals in particular are affected by extensive and changing safety, environmental protection and other international, national, state and local governmental laws and regulations, including the following: laws pertaining to air emissions; wastewater discharges; the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous materials and oil and oil-related products, hazardous substances and wastes; the investigation and remediation of contamination; and 14 Table of Contents health, safety and the protection of the environment and natural resources. For example, our vessels, as U.S.-flagged vessels, generally must be maintained “in class” and are subject to periodic inspections by ABS or similar classification societies, and must be periodically inspected by, or on behalf of, the Coast Guard. Federal environmental laws and certain state laws require us, as a vessel operator, to comply with numerous environmental regulations and to obtain certificates of financial responsibility and to adopt procedures for oil and hazardous substance spill prevention, response and clean up. In complying with these laws, we have incurred expenses and may incur future expenses for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures. Changes in enforcement policies for existing requirements and additional laws and regulations adopted in the future could limit our ability to do business or further increase the cost of our doing business. Our vessels’ operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during the required annual surveys of the vessels. However, there can be no assurance that such certificates and licenses will be renewed. Also, in the future, we may have to alter existing equipment, add new equipment to, or change operating procedures for, our vessels to comply with changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards to meet our customers’ changing needs. If any such costs are material, they could adversely affect our financial condition. We are subject to regulation and liability under environmental laws that could result in substantial fines and penalties that may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The U.S. Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships, which implements MARPOL, provides for severe civil and criminal penalties related to ship-generated pollution for incidents in U.S. waters within three nautical miles and in some cases in the 200-mile exclusive economic zone. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) requires vessels to obtain coverage under a general permit and to comply with inspection, monitoring, discharge, recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Occasionally, our vessels may not operate in accordance with such permit or requirements or we may not adequately comply with recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Any such violations could result in substantial fines or penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and our business. Restrictions on foreign ownership of our vessels could limit our ability to sell off any portion of our business or result in the forfeiture of our vessels. The Jones Act restricts the foreign ownership interests in the entities that directly or indirectly own the vessels which we operate in our Jones Act markets. If we were to seek to sell any portion of our business that owns any of these vessels, we would have fewer potential purchasers, since some potential purchasers might be unable or unwilling to satisfy the foreign ownership restrictions described above. As a result, the sales price for that portion of our business may not attain the amount that could be obtained in an unregulated market. Furthermore, at any point Horizon Lines, LLC, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and principal operating subsidiary, ceases to be controlled and 75% owned by U.S. citizens, we would become ineligible to operate in our current Jones Act markets and may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of our vessels. Catastrophic losses and other liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations and such losses and liability may be beyond insurance coverage. The operation of any oceangoing vessel carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophic maritime disaster, mechanical failure, collision, and loss of or damage to cargo. Also, in the course of the operation of our vessels, marine disasters, such as oil spills and other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, and business interruption due to political or other developments, as well as maritime disasters not involving us, labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in loss of revenue, liabilities or increased costs, personal injury, loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. Damage arising from such occurrences may result in lawsuits asserting large claims. 15 Table of Contents Although we maintain insurance, including retentions and deductibles, at levels that we believe are consistent with industry norms against the risks described above, including loss of life, there can be no assurance that this insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages suffered by us from the occurrence of all of the risks described above or the loss of income resulting from one or more of our vessels being removed from operation. We also cannot be assured that a claim will be paid or that we will be able to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Further, if we are negligent or otherwise responsible in connection with any such event, our insurance may not cover our claim. In the event that any of the claims arising from any of the foregoing possible events were assessed against us, all of our assets could be subject to attachment and other judicial process. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to effectively provide our shipping and logistics services, especially HITS, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. Our provision of our shipping and logistics services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems, especially our Horizon Information Technology System (“HITS”). We have experienced brief system failures in the past and may experience brief or substantial failures in the future. Any failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service reducing our revenue and profits and damaging our brand. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, or other unanticipated problems at our facilities at which we maintain and operate our systems could result in lengthy interruptions or delays in our shipping and integrated logistics services, especially HITS. Our vessels could be arrested by maritime claimants, which could result in significant loss of earnings and cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo, lenders and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may enforce its lien by either arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. Moreover, crew members may place liens for unpaid wages that can include significant statutory penalty wages if the unpaid wages remain overdue (e.g., double wages for every day during which the unpaid wages remain overdue). The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the period during which the arrest or attachment is continuing. We are susceptible to severe weather and natural disasters and global climate change may make adverse weather conditions more severe or frequent. Our operations are vulnerable to disruption as a result of weather and natural disasters such as bad weather at sea, hurricanes, typhoons and earthquakes. Such events will interfere with our ability to provide the on-time scheduled service our customers demand resulting in increased expenses and potential loss of business associated with such events. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters can result in interference with our terminal operations, and may cause serious damage to our vessels, loss or damage to containers, cargo and other equipment and loss of life or physical injury to our employees. Terminals on the east coast of the continental U.S. and in the Caribbean are particularly susceptible to hurricanes and typhoons. In the past, our terminal in Puerto Rico was seriously damaged by a hurricane, resulting in damage to cranes and other equipment and closure of the facility. Earthquakes in Anchorage have also damaged our terminal facilities resulting in delay in terminal operations and increased expenses. Any such damage will not be fully covered by insurance. The risk of adverse weather conditions is enhanced by the potential for global climate change which some scientists believe may increase severe weather patterns. The EPA has found in its recent greenhouse gas endangerment finding that global climate change would result in more severe and possibly more frequent adverse 16 Table of Contents weather conditions. If this is the case, the above mentioned risks would be expected to increase in years ahead. For example, increased or more powerful weather events could result in damage to our shipping terminals and vessels or disrupt port operations. We may face unexpected substantial dry-docking costs for our vessels. Our vessels are dry-docked periodically to comply with regulatory requirements and to effect maintenance and repairs, if necessary. The cost of such repairs at each dry-docking are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial. Our established processes have enabled us to make on average four dry-dockings per year over the last five years with a minimal impact on schedule. There are some years when we have more than the average of four dry-dockings annually. In addition, our vessels may have to be dry-docked in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage. Our insurance may not cover all of these costs. Large unpredictable repair and dry-docking expenses could significantly decrease our profits. Our certificate of incorporation limits the ownership of common stock by individuals and entities that are not U.S. citizens. This may affect the liquidity of our common stock and may result in non-U.S. citizens being required to disgorge profits, sell their shares at a loss or relinquish their voting, dividend and distribution rights. Under applicable U.S. maritime laws, at least 75% of the outstanding shares of each class or series of our capital stock must be owned and controlled by U.S. citizens within the meaning of such laws. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation are intended to facilitate compliance with this requirement and may have an adverse effect on holders of shares of the common stock. Under the provisions of our certificate of incorporation, any transfer, or attempted transfer, of any shares of our capital stock will be void if the effect of such transfer, or attempted transfer, would be to cause one or more non-U.S. citizens in the aggregate to own (of record or beneficially) shares of any class or series of our capital stock in excess of 19.9% of the outstanding shares of such class or series. To the extent such restrictions voiding transfers are effective, the liquidity or market value of the shares of common stock may be adversely impacted. In the event such restrictions voiding transfers would be ineffective for any reason, our certificate of incorporation provides that if any transfer would otherwise result in the number of shares of any class or series of our capital stock owned (of record or beneficially) by non-U.S. citizens being in excess of 19.9% of the outstanding shares of such class or series, such transfer will cause such excess shares to be automatically transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of one or more charitable beneficiaries that are U.S. citizens. The proposed transferee will have no rights in the shares transferred to the trust, and the trustee, who is a U.S. citizen chosen by us and unaffiliated with us or the proposed transferee, will have all voting, dividend and distribution rights associated with the shares held in the trust. The trustee will sell such excess shares to a U.S. citizen within 20 days of receiving notice from us and distribute to the proposed transferee the lesser of the price that the proposed transferee paid for such shares and the amount received from the sale, and any gain from the sale will be paid to the charitable beneficiary of the trust. These trust transfer provisions also apply to situations where ownership of a class or series of our capital stock by non-U.S. citizens in excess of 19.9% would be exceeded by a change in the status of a record or beneficial owner thereof from a U.S. citizen to a non-U.S. citizen, in which case such person will receive the lesser of the market price of the shares on the date of such status change and the amount received from the sale. In addition, under our certificate of incorporation, if the sale or other disposition of shares of common stock would result in non-U.S. citizens owning (of record or beneficially) in excess of 19.9% of the outstanding shares of common stock, the excess shares shall be automatically transferred to a trust for disposal by a trustee in accordance with the trust transfer provisions described above. As part of the foregoing trust transfer provisions, the trustee will be deemed to have offered the excess shares in the trust to us at a price per share equal to the lesser of (i) the market price on the date we accept the offer and (ii) the price per share in the purported transfer or original issuance of shares, as described in the preceding paragraph, or the market price per share on the date of the status change, that resulted in the transfer to the trust. 17 Table of Contents As a result of the above trust transfer provisions, a proposed transferee that is a non-U.S. citizen or a record or beneficial owner whose citizenship status change results in excess shares may not receive any return on its investment in shares it purportedly purchases or owns, as the case may be, and it may sustain a loss. To the extent that the above trust transfer provisions would be ineffective for any reason, our certificate of incorporation provides that, if the percentage of the shares of any class or series of our capital stock owned (of record or beneficially) by non-U.S. citizens is known to us to be in excess of 19.9% for such class or series, we, in our sole discretion, shall be entitled to redeem all or any portion of such shares most recently acquired (as determined by our board of directors in accordance with guidelines that are set forth in our certificate of incorporation), by non-U.S. citizens, or owned (of record or beneficially) by non-U.S. citizens as a result of a change in citizenship status, in excess of such maximum permitted percentage for such class or series at a redemption price based on a fair market value formula that is set forth in our certificate of incorporation. Such excess shares shall not be accorded any voting, dividend or distribution rights until they have ceased to be excess shares, provided that they have not been already redeemed by us. As a result of these provisions, a stockholder who is a non-U.S. citizen may be required to sell its shares of common stock at an undesirable time or price and may not receive any return on its investment in such shares. Further, we may have to incur additional indebtedness, or use available cash (if any), to fund all or a portion of such redemption, in which case our financial condition may be materially weakened. So that we may ensure our compliance with the applicable maritime laws, our certificate of incorporation permits us to require that any record or beneficial owner of any shares of our capital stock provide us from time to time with certain documentation concerning such owner’s citizenship and comply with certain requirements. These provisions include a requirement that every person acquiring, directly or indirectly, five percent (5%) or more of the shares of any class or series of our capital stock must provide us with specified citizenship documentation. In the event that a person does not submit such requested or required documentation to us, our certificate of incorporation provides us with certain remedies, including the suspension of the voting rights of such person’s shares of our capital stock and the payment of dividends and distributions with respect to those shares into an escrow account. As a result of non-compliance with these provisions, a record or beneficial owner of the shares of our common stock may lose significant rights associated with those shares. In addition to the risks described above, the foregoing foreign ownership restrictions could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or change in control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. Certain provisions of our corporate governance documents and applicable U.S. maritime laws place restrictions on transfers and acquisitions or accumulation of our equity by third parties, and the failure of the protections afforded by such provisions may have a material detrimental impact on our Jones Act operations and/or impair our future ability to use a substantial amount of our existing net operating loss carryforwards. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions voiding transfers of shares of any class or series of our capital stock that would result in non-U.S. citizens, in the aggregate, owning in excess of 19.9% of the shares of such class or series. In the event that this transfer restriction would be ineffective, our certificate of incorporation provides for the automatic transfer of such excess shares to a trust specified therein. These trust provisions also apply to excess shares that would result from a change in the status of a record or beneficial owner of shares of our capital stock from a U.S. citizen to a non-U.S. citizen. In the event that these trust transfer provisions would also be ineffective, our certificate of incorporation permits us to redeem such excess shares. The per-share redemption price may be paid, as determined by our Board of Directors, by cash, redemption notes, or warrants. However, we may not be able to redeem such excess shares for cash because our operations may not have generated sufficient excess cash flow to fund such redemption. If, for any reason, we are unable to effect such a redemption when such ownership of shares by non-U.S. citizens is in excess of 25.0% of such class or series, or otherwise prevent non-U.S. citizens in the aggregate from 18 Table of Contents owning shares in excess of 25.0% of any such class or series, or fail to exercise our redemption right because we are unaware that such ownership exceeds such percentage, we will likely be unable to comply with applicable maritime laws. If all of the citizenship-related safeguards in our certificate of incorporation fail at a time when ownership of shares of any class or series of our stock is in excess of 25.0% of such class or series, we will likely be required to suspend our Jones Act operations. Any such actions by governmental authorities would have a severely detrimental impact on the results of our operations. In addition to our corporate governance documents, on August 27, 2012, our Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights plan (the “Rights Plan”) designed to protect our significant net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards (“NOLs”). The Rights Plan will expire on August 27, 2015, or earlier upon the date that: (1) our Board of Directors determines that the plan is no longer needed to preserve the deferred tax assets or is no longer in the best interest of the Company and our stockholders, (2) our Board of Directors determines, at the beginning of a specified period, that no tax benefits may be carried forward, or (3) the rights are redeemed or exchanged by our Board of Directors pursuant to the Rights Plan. As of December 22, 2013, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of $233.3 million. Under applicable tax rules, we may “carry forward” these NOLs in certain circumstances to offset any current and future taxable income and thus reduce our income tax liability, subject to certain requirements and restrictions. Therefore, we believe that these NOLs could be a substantial asset. However, if we experience an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Code, our ability to use the NOLs could be substantially limited, which could significantly increase our future income tax liability. Although the Rights Plan is intended to reduce the likelihood of an ownership change that could adversely affect us, we cannot assure that it would prevent all transfers that could result in such an ownership change. In particular, it would not protect against ownership changes resulting from sales by certain greater than five percent (5%) stockholders that may trigger limitations on our use of NOLs under Section 382 of the Code. Further, because the Rights Plan may restrict a stockholder’s ability to acquire our stock, the liquidity and market value of our stock might be adversely affected. We are subject to statutory and regulatory directives in the United States addressing homeland security concerns that may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. Various government agencies within the Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”), including the Transportation Security Administration, the Coast Guard, and the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (“CBP”), have adopted, and may adopt in the future, rules, policies or regulations or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, rules, policies or regulations, compliance with which could increase our costs or result in loss of revenue. The Coast Guard’s maritime security regulations, issued pursuant to the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”), require us to operate our vessels and facilities pursuant to both the maritime security regulations and approved security plans. Our vessels and facilities are subject to periodic security compliance verification examinations by the Coast Guard. A failure to operate in accordance with the maritime security regulations or the approved security plans may result in the imposition of a fine or control and compliance measures, including the suspension or revocation of the security plan, thereby making the vessel or facility ineligible to operate. We are also required to audit these security plans on an annual basis and, if necessary, submit amendments to the Coast Guard for its review and approval. Failure to timely submit the necessary amendments may lead to the imposition of the fines and control and compliance measures mentioned above. Failure to meet the requirements of the maritime security regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. DHS may adopt additional security-related regulations, including new requirements for screening cargo and our reimbursement to the agency for the cost of security services. Any such new security-related regulations could have an adverse impact on our ability to efficiently process cargo or could increase our operating costs. In particular, our customers typically need quick shipment of their cargos and rely on our on-time shipping capabilities. If any new regulations disrupt or impede the timing of our shipments, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may incur additional expenses to do so. 19 Table of Contents Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. Domestic container shipping is subject to various security, inspection, and related procedures, referred to herein as inspection procedures. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of containers or their contents, delays in the loading, offloading, transshipment or delivery of containers and the levying of fines or other penalties. We understand that, currently, only a small proportion of all containers delivered to the United States are physically inspected by U.S., state or local authorities prior to delivery to their destinations. The U.S. government, foreign governments, international organizations, and industry associations have been considering ways to improve and expand inspection procedures. There are numerous proposals to enhance the existing inspection procedures, which if implemented would likely affect shipping and integrated logistics companies such as us. Such changes could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us, including additional responsibility for physically inspecting and recording the contents of containers we are shipping. In addition, changes to inspection procedures could impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo by container uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. No assurance can be given that our insurance costs will not escalate. Our protection and indemnity insurance (“P&I”) is provided by a mutual P&I club which is a member of the International Group of P&I clubs. As a mutual club, it relies on member premiums, investment reserves and income, and reinsurance to manage liability risks on behalf of its members. Our coverage under the Longshore Act for U.S. Longshore and Harbor Workers compensation is provided by Signal Mutual Indemnity Association Ltd. Signal Mutual is a non-profit organization whose members pool risks of a similar nature to achieve long-term and stable insurance protection at cost. Signal Mutual is now the largest provider of Longshore benefits in the country. This program provides for first-dollar coverage without a deductible. Increased investment losses, underwriting losses, or reinsurance costs could cause international marine insurance clubs to increase the cost of premiums, resulting not only in higher premium costs, but also higher levels of deductibles and self-insurance retentions. Environmental and Other Regulation Our marine operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations implemented principally by the Coast Guard, the EPA and the United States Department of Transportation (“DOT”), as well as related state regulatory agencies. These requirements generally govern the safe operations of our ships and pollution prevention in U.S. internal waters, the territorial sea, and the 200-mile exclusive economic zone of the United States. The operation of our vessels is also subject to regulation under various international conventions adopted by the IMO that are implemented by the laws of domestic and foreign jurisdictions, and enforced by the Coast Guard and by port state authorities in our non-U.S. ports of call. In addition, our vessels are required to meet construction, maintenance and repair standards established by ABS, Det Norske Veritas (“DNV”), IMO and/or the Coast Guard, as well as to meet operational, environmental, security, and safety standards and regulations presently established by the Coast Guard, CBP, EPA and IMO. The Coast Guard also licenses our seagoing officers and certifies our seamen. Our marine operations are further subject to regulation by various federal agencies, including the Surface Transportation Board (“STB”), Maritime Administration (“MARAD”), the Federal Maritime Commission, the 20 Table of Contents EPA, CBP, and the Coast Guard. These regulatory authorities have broad powers over operational safety, tariff filings of freight rates, service contracts, transfer or sale of our vessels, certain mergers, contraband, pollution prevention, financial reporting, and homeland, port and vessel security. Our common and contract motor carrier operations are regulated by the STB and various state agencies. Our drivers also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the DOT, including certain regulations for drug and alcohol testing and hours of service. The ship’s officers and unlicensed crew members employed aboard our vessels must also comply with numerous safety, fitness and training regulations promulgated by the Coast Guard, the DOT, and the IMO, including certain regulations for drug testing and work and rest hours. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act The Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”) was enacted in 1990 and established a comprehensive regulatory and liability regime designed to increase pollution prevention, ensure better spill response capability, increase liability for oil spills, and facilitate prompt compensation for cleanup and damages. OPA is applicable to owners and operators whose vessels trade with the United States or its territories or possessions, or whose vessels operate in the navigable waters of the United States (generally three nautical miles from the coastline) and the 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone of the United States. Under OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless it is subsequently determined by the Coast Guard or a court of competent jurisdiction that the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for removal costs and damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels up to their limits of liability, unless the limits are broken as described below. “Damages” are defined broadly under OPA to include: • natural resources damages and the costs of assessment thereof; • damages for injury to, or economic losses resulting from the destruction of, real or personal property; • the net loss of taxes, royalties, rents, fees and profits by the United States government, and any state or political subdivision thereof; • lost profits or impairment of earning capacity due to property or natural resources damage; • the net costs of providing increased or additional public services necessitated by a spill response, such as protection from fire, safety or other hazards; and • the loss of subsistence use of natural resources. Effective July 31, 2009, the OPA regulations were amended to increase the liability limits for responsible parties for non-tank vessels to $1,000 per gross ton or $854,400, whichever is greater. These limits of liability do not apply: (1) if an incident was proximately caused by violation of applicable federal safety, construction or operating regulations or by a responsible party’s gross negligence or willful misconduct, or (2) if the responsible party fails or refuses to report the incident, fails to provide reasonable cooperation and assistance requested by a responsible official in connection with oil removal activities, or without sufficient cause fails to comply with an order issued under OPA. In 1980, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) was adopted and is applicable to the discharge of hazardous substances (other than oil) whether on land or at sea. CERCLA also imposes liability similar to OPA and provides compensation for cleanup, removal and natural resource damages. Liability per vessel under CERCLA is limited to the greater of $300 per gross ton or $5 million, unless the incident is caused by gross negligence, willful misconduct, or a violation of certain regulations, in which case liability is unlimited. 21 Table of Contents OPA requires owners and operators of vessels to establish and maintain with the Coast Guard evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to meet their potential liabilities under OPA. Effective July 1, 2009, the Coast Guard regulations requiring evidence of financial responsibility were amended to conform the OPA financial responsibility requirements to the July 2009 increases in liability limits. Current Coast Guard regulations require evidence of financial responsibility for oil pollution in the amount of $1,000 per gross ton or $854,400, whichever is greater, for non-tank vessels, plus the CERCLA liability limit of $300 per gross ton for hazardous substance spills. As a result of the Delaware River Protection Act, which was enacted by Congress in 2006, the OPA limits of liability must be adjusted not less than every three years to reflect significant increases in the Consumer Price Index. Although future increases were scheduled for 2012 and every three years thereafter, the Coast Guard has not implemented new limits since 2009. On September 30, 2013, the Coast Guard issued a Final Rule, which became effective October 30, 2013, requiring owners and operators of non-tank vessels to prepare and submit Nontank Vessel Response Plans (“NTVRPs”) by January 30, 2014. The requirements for non-tank vessels are generally similar to those for tank vessel requirements. We submitted all the necessary documentation to the USCG prior to the deadline and have received approval of our response plans. Under the Coast Guard regulations, vessel owners and operators may evidence their financial responsibility through an insurance guaranty, surety bond, self-insurance, financial guaranty or other evidence of financial responsibility acceptable to the Coast Guard. Under OPA, an owner or operator of a fleet of vessels may demonstrate evidence of financial responsibility in an amount sufficient to cover the vessels in the fleet having the greatest maximum liability under OPA. The Coast Guard’s regulations concerning Certificates of Financial Responsibility provide, in accordance with OPA, that claimants may bring suit directly against an insurer or guarantor that furnishes Certificates of Financial Responsibility. In the event that such insurer or guarantor is sued directly, it is prohibited from asserting any contractual defense that it may have had against the responsible party and is limited to asserting those defenses available to the responsible party and the defense that the incident was caused by the willful misconduct of the responsible party. OPA allows individual states to impose their own liability regimes that are consistent but more stringent than OPA, with regard to oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries, and some states have enacted legislation providing for unlimited liability for oil spills, as well as requirements for response and contingency planning and requirements for financial responsibility. We intend to comply with all applicable state regulations in the states where our vessels call. We maintain Certificates of Financial Responsibility as required by the Coast Guard and various states for our vessels. The Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships and MARPOL requirements for oil pollution prevention MARPOL is the main international convention covering prevention of pollution of the marine environment by vessels from operational or accidental causes. It has been updated by amendments through the years and is implemented in the United States by the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships. MARPOL has six specific annexes; and Annex I governs oil pollution, Annex V governs garbage pollution, and Annex VI governs air pollution. Since the 1990s, the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) has been aggressively enforcing U.S. criminal laws against vessel owners, operators, managers, crewmembers, shoreside personnel, and corporate officers for actions related to violations of Annex I and Annex V, in particular. Prosecutions generally involve violations related to pollution prevention devices, such as the oily water separator, and include falsifying the Oil Record Book and the Garbage Record Book, obstruction of justice, false statements and conspiracy. Over the past 15 to 20 years, the DOJ has imposed significant criminal penalties in vessel pollution cases and the vast majority of such cases did not actually involve pollution in the United States, but rather efforts to conceal or cover up pollution that occurred in international waters. In certain cases, responsible shipboard officers and shoreside officials have been sentenced to prison. In addition, the DOJ has required defendants to implement a comprehensive environmental compliance plan (“ECP”) as part of any negotiated resolution. 22 Table of Contents In the first quarter of 2012, we entered into a plea agreement with the government, and agreed to plead guilty to two false statements for maintaining an inaccurate Oil Record Book. This related to one of our containerships in the U.S. west coast-Hawaii service. As part of our probation obligation, we have developed, adopted, and implemented an ECP. Should we face DOJ criminal prosecutions in the future, we could face significant criminal penalties and defense costs as well as costs associated with the implementation of an ECP. Under MARPOL Annex V, which governs the discharge of garbage from ships, the special area for the Wider Caribbean region including the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean Sea went into effect on May 1, 2011. Under MARPOL, these special areas require the adoption of special mandatory methods for the prevention of sea pollution, and are provided with a higher level of protection than other areas of the sea. In addition, new regulations addressing garbage management went into effect on January 1, 2013. The new regulations impose stricter garbage management procedures and documentation requirements for all vessels and fixed and floating platforms by imposing a general prohibition on the discharge of all garbage unless the discharge is expressly provided for under the regulations. The new regulations allow the limited discharge of only four categories: food waste, cargo residues and certain operational wastes not harmful to the marine environment, and carcasses of animals carried as cargo. These regulations greatly reduce the amount of garbage that vessels will be able to dispose of at sea and will increase our costs of disposing garbage remaining on board vessels at their port calls. The Coast Guard published an interim rule on February 28, 2013 to implement these new requirements in the United States effective April 1, 2013. The United States Clean Water Act Enacted in 1972, the United States Clean Water Act (“CWA”) prohibits the discharge of “pollutants,” which includes oil or hazardous substances, into navigable waters of the United States and imposes civil and criminal penalties for unauthorized discharges. The CWA complements the remedies available under OPA and CERCLA discussed above. The CWA established the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (“NPDES”) permitting program, which governs discharges of pollutants into navigable waters of the United States from point sources, such as vessels operating in the navigable waters. Pursuant to the NPDES program, the EPA issued a Vessel General Permit (“2008 VGP”), which was in effect from February 6, 2009 to December 19, 2013. On April 12, 2013, the EPA implemented the Phase II VGP Regime (“2013 VGP”) effective on December 19, 2013, covering 27 types of discharges. The 2013 VGP applies to U.S. and foreign-flag commercial vessels that are at least 79 feet in length, and therefore applies to our vessels. The 2013 VGP requires vessel owners and operators to adhere to “best management practices” to manage the covered discharges, including ballast water, that occur normally in the operation of a vessel. In addition, the 2013 VGP requires vessel owners and operators to implement various training, inspection, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements, as well as corrective actions upon identification of each deficiency. The purpose of these limitations is to reduce the number of living organisms discharged via ballast water into waters regulated by the 2013 VGP. The 2013 VGP also contains requirements for oil-to-sea interfaces, which seeks to improve environmental protection of U.S. waters, by requiring all vessels to use an Environmentally Acceptable Lubricant (EAL) in all oil-to-sea interfaces, unless not technically feasible. We filed a Notice of Intent to be covered by the 2008 VGP for each of our ships and filed another Notice of Intent to be covered by the 2013 VGP, and we have implemented its requirements. Under the 2013 VGP, there is an annual reporting requirement. The 2013 VGP has resulted in increased requirements and may lead to increased enforcement by the EPA and the Coast Guard that could result in an increase in the Company’s operating costs. On February 11, 2011, the EPA and the Coast Guard entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) outlining the steps the agencies will take to better coordinate efforts to implement and enforce the 23 Table of Contents VGP. Under the MOU, the Coast Guard will identify and report to the EPA deficiencies detected as a result of its normal boarding protocols for U.S.-flag and foreign-flag vessels. However, the EPA retains responsibility and enforcement authority to address violations. Failure to comply with the 2013 VGP may result in civil or criminal penalties. Section 401(d) of the CWA permits individual states to attach additional limitations and requirements to federal permits, including the 2013 VGP, that are necessary to assure that the permit will comply with any applicable CWA-based effluent limitations and other limitations, standards of performance, prohibitions, effluent standards, or pretreatment standards, and with any other appropriate requirements of that state. Pursuant to this authority, several states have specified significant, additional requirements that became a condition of the 2013 VGP. As a result, in addition to the 2013 VGP requirements, a permit may not be issued until the owners and operators of the vessel have met state specific state conditions in accordance with Section 401 of the CWA, if applicable. The National Invasive Species Act The United States National Invasive Species Act (“NISA”) was enacted in 1996 in response to growing reports of harmful organisms being released into United States waters through ballast water taken on by vessels in foreign ports. The Coast Guard adopted regulations under NISA in July 2004 that imposed mandatory ballast water management practices for all vessels equipped with ballast water tanks entering United States waters. These requirements could be met by performing mid-ocean ballast exchange, by retaining ballast water on board the vessel, or by using environmentally sound ballast water treatment methods approved by the Coast Guard. Mid-ocean ballast exchange was the primary method for compliance with the Coast Guard regulations. Vessels that are unable to conduct mid-ocean ballast exchange due to voyage or safety concerns may discharge minimum amounts of ballast water in U.S. waters, provided that they comply with recordkeeping requirements and document the reasons they could not follow the required ballast water management requirements. In March 2012, the Coast Guard amended its regulations on ballast water management by establishing standards for the allowable concentration of living organisms in a vessel’s ballast water discharged in United States waters. The final rule sets limits to match those set internationally by IMO in the International Convention for the Control and Management of Ships Ballast Water and Sediments (the “Ballast Water Convention”). The Coast Guard deferred the phase-two discharge standard, which would have been more stringent and cannot be met using existing treatment technology. However, the Coast Guard intends to establish a more stringent phase-two discharge standard after completing additional research and analysis. The Coast Guard requirements will be phased in over a several-year period depending on a vessel’s ballast water capacity and dry-docking schedule. In most cases vessels will be required to install and operate a ballast water management system (“BWMS”) that has been type-approved by the Coast Guard. A vessel’s compliance date varies based upon the date of construction and ballast water capacity. Our existing vessels with a ballast water capacity less than 1500 cubic meters or greater than 5000 cubic meters must comply by their first scheduled dry-docking after January 1, 2016. If a vessel intends to install a BWMS prior to the applicable compliance date and the Coast Guard has not yet type-approved systems appropriate for the vessel’s class or type, the vessel may install an Alternate Management System (“AMS”) that has been approved by a foreign-flag administration pursuant to the IMO’s I Ballast Water Convention if the Coast Guard determines that it is at least as effective as ballast water exchanges. If an AMS is installed prior to the applicable compliance date, it may be used until five years after the compliance date, which is intended to provide sufficient time for the manufacturer to obtain Coast Guard approval. At present, however, no Coast Guard type-approved BWMS is available. One of our vessels could be required to have a ballast water treatment system on board by its first scheduled dry-docking that occurs after January 1, 2014, however, that vessel is not currently in service and the ballast water treatment system would only be required if we decide to use it and dry dock that vessel after January 1, 2014. All of our remaining vessels will be required to have an approved system on board by their first scheduled 24 Table of Contents dry-docking survey after January 1, 2016. Systems are available that will meet the IMO standards, however US Coast Guard has been slow to establish criteria and approve Ballast Water Treatment Systems. We are carefully monitoring developments on ballast water treatment systems and may apply for a waiver, or install an AMS or USCG approved ballast treatment system in vessel dry dockings which occur after January 1, 2016. In addition to the federal standards, states have enacted legislation or regulations to address invasive species through ballast water and hull cleaning management, and permitting requirements, which in many cases have also become part of the state’s VGP certification. For instance, California requires vessels to comply with its own ballast water discharge and hull fouling requirements. On October 1, 2013, the California legislature delayed implementation of California’s ballast water discharge performance standards, effective January 1, 2014, for a two-year period. Numerous other states have also added more stringent requirements to their certification of the 2013 VGP. State requirements could increase our costs of operating in those state waters. The United States Clean Air Act and Air Emission Standards under MARPOL In 1970, the United States Clean Air Act (as amended by the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977 and 1990, the “CAA”) was enacted and required the EPA to promulgate standards applicable to emissions of volatile organic compounds and other air contaminants. The CAA also requires states to submit State Implementation Plans (“SIPs”), which are designed to attain national health-based air quality standards throughout the United States, including major metropolitan and/or industrial areas. Several SIPs regulate emissions resulting from vessel loading and unloading operations by requiring the installation of vapor control equipment. The EPA and some states have each proposed more stringent regulations of air emissions from propulsion and auxiliary engines on oceangoing vessels. For example, the California Air Resources Board (“CARB”) has published regulations requiring oceangoing vessels visiting California ports to reduce air pollution through the use of marine distillate fuels once they sail within 24 nautical miles of the California coastline effective July 1, 2009. CARB began enforcing these requirements on December 1, 2011. CARB’s more stringent fuel oil requirements for marine gas oil and marine diesel oil went into effect on January 1, 2014, requiring oceangoing vessels to use fuel at or below 0.1% sulfur. The state of California also began on January 1, 2010, implementing regulations on a phased in basis that require vessels to either shut down their auxiliary engines while in port in California and use electrical power supplied at the dock or implement alternative means to significantly reduce emissions from the vessel’s electric power generating equipment while it is in port. Generally, a vessel will run its auxiliary engines while in port in order to power lighting, ventilation, pumps, communication and other onboard equipment. The emissions from running auxiliary engines while in port may contribute to particulate matter in the ambient air. The purpose of the regulations is to reduce the emissions from a vessel while it is in port. The cost of reducing vessel emissions while in port may be substantial if we determine that we cannot use or the ports will not permit us to use electrical power supplied at the dock. Alternatively, the ports may pass the cost of supplying electrical power at the port to us, and we may incur additional costs in connection with modifying our vessels to use electrical power supplied at the dock. These requirements went into effect on January 1, 2014. Currently, we only operate steamships in California, and these vessels are exempt from this regulation until January 01, 2020. Annex VI of MARPOL, which addresses air emissions from vessels, came into force in the United States on January 8, 2009 and requires the use of low sulfur fuels worldwide in both auxiliary and main propulsion diesel engines on vessels. By July 1, 2010, amendments to MARPOL required all diesel engines on vessels built between 1990 and 2000 to meet a Nitrous Oxide (“NOx”) standard of 17.0g-NOx/kW-hr. On January 1, 2011 the NOx standard was lowered to 14.4 g-NOx/kW-hr, and on January 1, 2016 it will be further lowered to 3.4 g-NOx/kW-hr, for vessels operating in a designated Emission Control Area (“ECA”). In addition, the current global sulfur cap of 4.5% sulfur was reduced to 3.5% effective January 1, 2012 and will be further reduced to as low as 0.5% sulfur in 2020. The recommendations made in connection with a MARPOL fuel availability study scheduled for 2018 at IMO may cause this date to slip to 2025. The current 1.0% maximum sulfur emissions permitted in designated ECAs around the world will be reduced to 0.1% sulfur on January 1, 2015. These sulfur limitations will be applied to all subsequently approved ECAs. 25 Table of Contents With respect to North America, the EPA received approval of the IMO, in coordination with Environment Canada, to designate all waters, with certain limited exceptions, within 200 nautical miles of Hawaii and the U.S. and Canadian coasts as ECAs. The North American ECA went into force on August 1, 2012, limiting the sulfur content in fuel that is burned as described above. Beginning in 2016, NOx after-treatment requirements become applicable in this ECA as well. Furthermore, on July 15, 2011, the IMO officially adopted amendments to MARPOL to designate certain waters around Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands as the United States— Caribbean ECA, where stringent international emission standards will also apply to ships. For this area, the effective date of the first-phase fuel sulfur standard is January 2014, and the second phase begins in 2015. Stringent NOx engine standards begin in 2016. With the adoption of the North American ECA, ships operating within 200 miles of the U.S. coast are required to burn 1% sulfur content fuel oil and will be required to burn 0.1% sulfur content fuel oil as of January 1, 2015. While the EPA has received approval at IMO to exempt and has exempted our 10 steamships from the 0.1% sulfur content fuel oil requirement until 2020, our three D-7 vessels utilized in our Alaska trade lanes are diesel-powered and will be subject to the 0.1% sulfur content requirement beginning in January, 2015. In order to comply with these environmental laws and regulations, we will most likely need to make material capital expenditures related to these D-7 vessels prior to 2015. Additionally, in order to address the expiration of the steamship exemption in 2020 and because our 10 steamships cannot currently safely burn 0.1% sulfur content fuel oil, we will most likely need to make material capital expenditures to install engines or systems on these vessels to address fuel efficiency and emissions or to replace such vessels altogether. It is not yet known whether any engine or system modifications will exist or be feasible to allow our fleet to be brought into compliance with these environmental laws and regulations. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Our operations occasionally generate and require the transportation, treatment and disposal of both hazardous and non-hazardous solid wastes that are subject to the requirements of the United States Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (“RCRA”) or comparable international, state or local requirements. From time to time we arrange for the disposal of hazardous waste or hazardous substances at offsite disposal facilities. With respect to our marine operations, the EPA has a longstanding policy that RCRA only applies after wastes are “purposely removed” from the vessel. As a general matter, with certain exceptions, vessel owners and operators are required to determine if their wastes are hazardous, obtain a generator identification number, comply with certain standards for the proper management of hazardous wastes, and use hazardous waste manifests for shipments to disposal facilities. The degree of RCRA regulation will depend on the amount of hazardous waste a generator generates in any given month. Moreover, vessel owners and operators may be subject to more stringent state hazardous waste requirements in those states where they land hazardous wastes. If such materials are improperly disposed of by third parties that we contract with, we may still be held liable for cleanup costs under applicable laws. Endangered Species Regulation The Endangered Species Act, federal conservation regulations and comparable state laws protect species threatened with possible extinction. Protection of endangered and threatened species may include restrictions on the speed of vessels in certain ocean waters and may require us to change the routes of our vessels during particular periods. For example, in an effort to prevent the collision of vessels with the North Atlantic right whale, federal regulations restrict the speed of vessels to ten knots or less in certain areas along the Atlantic Coast of the United States during certain times of the year. The reduced speed and special routing along the Atlantic Coast results in the use of additional fuel, which affects our results of operations. Greenhouse Gas Regulation In February 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (the “Kyoto Protocol”) entered into force. Pursuant to the Kyoto Protocol, countries that are parties to the Convention 26 Table of Contents are required to implement national programs to reduce emissions of certain gases, generally referred to as greenhouse gases, which are suspected of contributing to global warming. On January 1, 2009, the EPA began to require large emitters of greenhouse gases to collect and report data with respect to their greenhouse gas emissions. On December 1, 2009, the EPA issued an “endangerment finding” regarding greenhouse gases under the CAA. Any future adoption of climate control treaties, legislation or other regulatory measures by the United Nations, IMO, EU, United States or other countries where the Company operates that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could result in financial and operational impacts on our business (including potential capital expenditures to reduce such emissions) that the Company cannot predict with certainty at this time. Vessel Security Regulations Following the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security within the United States and internationally. On November 25, 2002, MTSA was signed into law. To implement certain portions of MTSA, in July 2003, the Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Similarly, in December 2002, the IMO adopted amendments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (“SOLAS”), known as the International Ship and Port Facilities Security Code (the “ISPS Code”), creating a new chapter dealing specifically with maritime security. The new chapter came into effect in July 2004 and imposes various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities. Among the various requirements under MTSA and/or the ISPS Code are: • on-board installation of automatic information systems to enhance vessel-to-vessel and vessel-to-shore communications; • on-board installation of ship security alert systems; • the development of vessel and facility security plans; • the implementation of a Transportation Worker Identification Credential program; and • compliance with flag state security certification requirements. The Coast Guard regulations, intended to align with international maritime security standards, generally deem foreign-flag vessels to be in compliance with MTSA’s vessel security measures provided such vessels have on board a valid International Ship Security Certificate that attests to the vessel’s compliance with SOLAS security requirements and the ISPS Code. U.S.-flag vessels, however, must comply with all of the security measures required by MTSA, as well as SOLAS and the ISPS Code, if engaged in international trade. We believe that we have implemented the various security measures required by the MTSA, SOLAS and the ISPS Code. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 27 Table of Contents 