Item 1A. Risk Factors If we are unable to implement our business strategy, our future results could be adversely affected. Our future results of operations depend in significant part on the extent to which we can implement our business strategy successfully. Our business strategy includes providing complete shipping and logistics services, leveraging our capabilities to serve a broad range of customers, leveraging our brand, maintaining industry-leading information technology, and reducing operating costs. Our strategy is subject to business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. As a consequence, we may not be able to fully implement our strategy or realize the anticipated results of our strategy. Repeal or substantial amendment of the Jones Act or its application could have a material adverse effect on our business. If the Jones Act were to be repealed or substantially amended and, as a consequence, competitors with lower operating costs were to enter any of our Jones Act markets, our business would be materially adversely affected. In addition, our advantage as a U.S.-citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be eroded by periodic efforts and attempts by foreign interests to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act. If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise altered, the shipping of maritime cargo between U.S. ports could be opened to foreign-flag or foreign-built vessels. A decrease in shipping volume in our markets will adversely affect our business. Demand for our shipping services depends on levels of shipping in our Jones Act markets and in the Guam market, as well as on economic and trade growth and logistics. Cyclical or other recessions in the continental U.S. or in these markets can negatively affect our operating results as customers may ship fewer containers or may ship containers only at reduced rates. We cannot predict whether or when such downturns will occur. Our failure to renew our commercial agreements with Maersk in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have several commercial agreements with Maersk, an international shipping company, that encompass terminal services, equipment sharing, cargo space charters, sales agency services, trucking services, and transportation services. For example, under these agreements, Maersk provides us with terminal services at our seven ports located in the continental U.S. (Elizabeth, New Jersey; Jacksonville, Florida; New Orleans, Louisiana; Houston, Texas; Long Beach and Oakland, California; and Tacoma, Washington). In general, these agreements, which were renewed and amended in May 2004, effective as of December 2004, are scheduled to expire at the end of 2007. If we fail to renew these agreements in the future, the requirements of our business will necessitate that we enter into substitute commercial agreements with third parties for at least some portion of the services contemplated under our existing commercial agreements with Maersk, such as terminal services at our ports located in the continental U.S. There can be no assurance that, if we fail to renew our commercial agreements with Maersk, we will be successful in negotiating and entering into substitute commercial agreements with third parties and, even if we succeed in doing so, the terms and conditions of these new agreements, individually or in the aggregate, may be significantly less favorable to us than the terms and conditions of our existing agreements with Maersk or others. Furthermore, if we do enter into substitute commercial agreements with third parties, changes in our operations to comply with the requirements of these new agreements (such as our use of other terminals in our existing ports in the 12 Table of Contents continental U.S. or our use of other ports in the continental U.S.) may cause disruptions to our business, which could be significant, and may result in additional costs and expenses and possible losses of revenue. Rising fuel prices may adversely affect our profits. Fuel is a significant operating expense for our shipping operations. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, increases in the price of fuel, such as we are currently experiencing, may adversely affect profitability. There can be no assurance that our customers will agree to bear such fuel price increases via fuel surcharges without a reduction in their volumes of business with us nor any assurance that our future fuel hedging efforts (if any) will be successful. Our industry is unionized and strikes by our union employees or others in the industry may disrupt our services and adversely affect our operations. As of December 25, 2005, we had 1,881 employees, of which 1,274 were unionized employees represented by seven different labor unions. Our industry is susceptible to work stoppages and other adverse employee actions due to the strong influence of maritime trade unions. We may be adversely affected by future industrial action against efforts by our management or the management of other companies in our industry to reduce labor costs, restrain wage increases or modify work practices. For example, in 2002 our operations at our U.S. west coast ports were significantly affected by a 10-day labor interruption by the International Longshore and Warehouse Union. This interruption affected ports and shippers throughout the U.S. west coast. In addition, in the future, we may not be able to negotiate, on terms and conditions favorable to us, renewals of our collective bargaining agreements with unions in our industry and strikes and disruptions may occur as a result of our failure or the failure of other companies in our industry to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with such unions successfully. Our collective bargaining agreements with our unions are scheduled to expire as follows—International Brotherhood of Teamsters: 2008 and 2010; Seafarers International Union: June 2006; Office & Professional Employees International Union: 2007; International Longshore and Warehouse Union: 2007 and 2008; International Longshoremen’s Association: 2010; Marine Engineers Beneficial Association: 2012; and International Organization of Masters, Mates & Pilots: 2012. We may face significant costs as our vessels age. We believe that our vessels each have an estimated useful economic life of 40 or more years from the year it was built. The average age of our vessels is approximately 29 years. We expect to incur increasing expenses to operate and maintain our vessels in good condition as they age. Eventually, these vessels will need to be replaced. We may not be able to replace these vessels with new vessels based on uncertainties related to financing, timing and shipyard availability. Our employees are covered by federal laws that may subject us to job-related claims in addition to those provided by state laws. Some of our employees are covered by several maritime statutes, including provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act, the Seamen’s Wage Act and general maritime law. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws 13 Table of Contents inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes for these employees, we may have greater exposure for any claims made by these employees than is customary in the United States. Due to our participation in multiemployer pension plans, we may have exposure under those plans that extends beyond what our obligations would be with respect to our employees. We contribute to 14 multiemployer pension plans. In the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by us from any plan which is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Based on the limited information available from plan administrators, which we cannot independently validate, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination would be material to our financial position and results of operations. In the event that any other contributing employer withdraws from any plan which is underfunded, and such employer (or any member in its controlled group) cannot satisfy its obligations under the plan at the time of withdrawal, then we, along with the other remaining contributing employers, would be liable for our proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. We have no current intention of taking any action that would subject us to any withdrawal liability and cannot provide assurance that no other contributing employer will take such action. In addition, if a multiemployer plan fails to satisfy the minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service, pursuant to Section 4971 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, referred to herein as the Code, will impose an excise tax of five (5%) percent on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency. Under Section 413(c)(5) of the Code, the liability of each contributing employer, including us, will be determined in part by each employer’s respective delinquency in meeting the required employer contributions under the plan. The Code also requires contributing employers to make additional contributions in order to reduce the deficiency to zero, which may, along with the payment of the excise tax, have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Compliance with safety and environmental protection and other governmental requirements may adversely affect our operations. The shipping industry in general and our business and the operation of our vessels and terminals in particular are affected by extensive and changing safety, environmental protection and other international, national, state and local governmental laws and regulations. For example, our vessels, as U.S.-flagged vessels, generally must be maintained “in class” and are subject to periodic inspections by the American Bureau of Shipping or similar classification certification groups, and must be periodically inspected by, or on behalf of, the U.S. Coast Guard. In addition, the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 ( “OPA”) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation & Liability Act ( “CERCLA”) requires us, as vessel operators, to post bonds or certificates of financial responsibility and to adopt procedures for oil or hazardous substance spill prevention, response and clean up. In complying with these laws, we have incurred expenses and may incur future expenses for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures. Changes in enforcement policies for existing requirements and additional laws and regulations adopted in the future could limit our ability to do business or further increase the cost of our doing business. We believe our vessels are maintained in good condition in compliance with present regulatory requirements, are operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable safety/environmental laws and regulations and are insured against the usual risks for such amounts as our management deems appropriate. Our vessels’ operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during the required annual surveys of the vessels. However, there can be no assurance that such certificates and 14 Table of Contents licenses will be renewed. Also, in the future, we may have to alter existing equipment, add new equipment to, or change operating procedures for, our vessels to comply with changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards or to meet our customers’ changing needs. If any such costs are material, they could adversely affect our financial condition. We are subject to new statutory and regulatory directives in the United States addressing homeland security concerns that may increase our costs and adversely affect our operations. Various government agencies within the Department of Homeland Security ( “DHS”), including the Transportation Security Administration, the U.S. Coast Guard, and U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, have adopted, and may adopt in the future, new rules, policies or regulations or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, rules, policies or regulations, compliance with which could increase our costs or result in loss of revenue. The Coast Guard’s new maritime security regulations, issued pursuant to the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002, require us to operate our vessels and facilities pursuant to both the maritime security regulations and approved security plans. Our vessels and facilities are subject to periodic security compliance verification examinations by the Coast Guard. A failure to operate in accordance with the maritime security regulations or the approved security plan may result in the imposition of a fine or control and compliance measures, including the suspension or revocation of the security plan, thereby making the vessel or facility ineligible to operate. We are also required to audit these security plans on an annual basis and, if necessary, submit amendments to the Coast Guard for their review and approval. Failure to timely submit the necessary amendments may lead to the imposition of the fines and control and compliance measures mentioned above. Failure to meet the requirements of the maritime security regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. DHS may adopt additional security-related regulations, including new requirements for screening of cargo and our reimbursement to the agency for the cost of security services. These new security-related regulations could have an adverse impact on our ability to efficiently process cargo or could increase our costs. In particular, our customers typically need quick shipping of their cargos and rely on our on-time shipping capabilities. If these regulations disrupt or impede the timing of our shipments, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may increase expenses to do so. Increased inspection procedures and tighter import and export controls could increase costs and disrupt our business. Domestic and international container shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures in countries of origin and destination as well as in countries in which transshipment points are located. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of containers or their contents, delays in the loading, offloading, transshipment or delivery of containers and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against exporters or importers (and, in some cases, shipping and logistics companies such as us). Failure to comply with these procedures may result in the imposition of fines and/or the taking of control or compliance measures by the applicable governmental agency, including the denial of entry into U.S. waters. We understand that, currently, only a small proportion of all containers delivered to the United States are physically inspected by U.S., state or local authorities prior to delivery to their destinations. The U.S. government, foreign governments, international organizations, and industry associations have been considering ways to improve and expand inspection procedures. It is unclear what changes, if any, to the existing inspection procedures will be proposed or implemented, or how any such changes will affect shipping and logistics companies such as us. It is possible, however, that such changes could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us, including additional 15 Table of Contents responsibility for physically inspecting and recording the contents of containers we are shipping. In addition, changes to inspection procedures could impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo by container uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on foreign ownership of our vessels could limit our ability to sell off any portion of our business or result in the forfeiture of our vessels. Under the Jones Act, all vessels transporting cargo between U.S. ports must, subject to limited exceptions, be built in the U.S., registered under the U.S. flag, manned by predominantly U.S. crews, and owned and operated by U.S. organized companies that are controlled and 75% owned by U.S. citizens. The Jones Act, therefore, restricts the foreign ownership interests in the entities that directly or indirectly own the vessels which we operate in the non-contiguous Jones Act markets. If we were to seek to sell any portion of our business that owns any of these vessels, we would have fewer potential purchasers, since some potential purchasers might be unable or unwilling to satisfy the foreign ownership restrictions described above. As a result, the sales price for that portion of our business may not attain the amount that could be obtained in an unregulated market. Furthermore, at any point Horizon Lines ceases to be controlled and 75% owned by U.S. citizens, we would become ineligible to operate in our current markets and may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of our vessels. No assurance can be given that our insurance costs will not escalate. Our protection and indemnity insurance (“P&I”) is provided by a mutual P&I club which is a member of the International Group of P&I Clubs. As a mutual club, it relies on member premiums, investment reserves and income, and reinsurance to manage liability risks on behalf of its members. Increased investment losses, underwriting losses, or reinsurance costs could cause international marine insurance clubs to substantially raise the cost of premiums, resulting not only in higher premium costs but also higher levels of deductibles and self-insurance retentions. Catastrophic losses and other liabilities could adversely affect our results of operations and such losses and liability may be beyond insurance coverage. The operation of any oceangoing vessel carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophic maritime disaster, mechanical failure, collision, and loss of or damage to cargo. Also, in the course of the operation of our vessels, marine disasters, such as oil spills and other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, and business interruption due to political or other developments, as well as maritime disasters not involving us, labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in loss of revenue, liabilities or increased costs, personal injury, loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. Damage arising from such occurrences may result in lawsuits asserting large claims. Although we maintain insurance, including retentions and deductibles, at levels that we believe are consistent with industry norms against the risks described above, including loss of life, there can be no assurance that this insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages suffered by us from the occurrence of all of the risks described above or the loss of income resulting from one or more of our vessels being removed from operation. We also cannot provide assurance that a claim will be paid or that we will be able to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Further, if we are negligent or otherwise responsible in connection with any such event, our insurance may not cover our claim. In the event that any of the claims arising from any of the foregoing possible events were assessed against us, all of our assets could be subject to attachment and other judicial process. 16 Table of Contents As a result of the significant insurance losses incurred in the September 11, 2001 attack and related concern regarding terrorist attacks, global insurance markets increased premiums and reduced or restricted coverage for terrorist losses generally. Accordingly, premiums payable for terrorist coverage have increased substantially and the level of terrorist coverage has been significantly reduced. Additionally, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. Our spare vessel reserved for relief may be inadequate under extreme circumstances. We generally keep a spare vessel in reserve available for relief if one of our vessels in active service suffers a maritime disaster or must be unexpectedly removed from service for repairs. However, this spare vessel may require several days of sailing before it can replace the other vessel, resulting in service disruptions and loss of revenue. If more than one of our vessels in active service suffers a maritime disaster or must be unexpectedly removed from service, we may have to redeploy vessels from our other trade routes, or lease one or more vessels from third parties. As there is a relatively limited supply of U.S.-built, U.S.-owned and U.S.-flagged container vessels available for short- or long-term lease, especially on short notice, we may be unable to lease any such vessels or be faced with prohibitively high lease rates. In any such case, we may suffer a material adverse effect on our business, our operating results and our financial condition. Interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to effectively provide our shipping and logistics services, especially HITS, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. Our provision of our shipping and logistics services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems, especially HITS. We have experienced brief system failures in the past and may experience brief or substantial failures in the future. Any failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service reducing our revenue and profits and damaging our brand. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, or other unanticipated problems at our facilities at which we maintain and operate our systems could result in lengthy interruptions or delays in our shipping and logistics services, especially HITS. Our vessels could be arrested by maritime claimants, which could result in significant loss of earnings and cash flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo, lenders and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may enforce its lien by either arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. Moreover, crew members may place liens for unpaid wages that can include significant statutory penalty wages if the unpaid wages remain overdue (e.g., double wages for every day during which the unpaid wages remain overdue). The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the period during which the arrest or attachment is continuing. In addition, international vessel arrest conventions and certain national jurisdictions allow so-called sister-ship arrests, which allow the arrest of vessels that are within the same legal ownership as the vessel which is subject to the claim or lien. Certain jurisdictions go further, permitting not only the arrest of vessels within the same legal ownership, but also any associated vessel. In nations with 17 Table of Contents these laws, an association may be recognized when two vessels are owned by companies controlled by the same party. Consequently, a claim may be asserted against us or any of our vessels for the liability of one or more of the other vessels that we own. We are susceptible to severe weather and natural disasters. Our operations are vulnerable to disruption as a result of weather and natural disasters such as bad weather at sea, hurricanes, typhoons and earthquakes. Such events will interfere with our ability to provide the on-time scheduled service our customers demand resulting in increased expenses and potential loss of business associated with such events. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters can result in interference with our terminal operations, and may cause serious damage to our vessels, loss or damage to containers, cargo and other equipment and loss of life or physical injury to our employees. Terminals in the South Pacific Ocean, particularly in Guam, and terminals on the east coast of the continental U.S. and in the Caribbean are particularly susceptible to hurricanes and typhoons. In the past, the terminal at our port in Guam was seriously damaged by a typhoon and our terminal in Puerto Rico was seriously damaged by a hurricane. These storms resulted in damage to cranes and other equipment and closure of these facilities. Earthquakes in Anchorage and in Guam have also damaged our terminal facilities resulting in delay in terminal operations and increased expenses. Any such damage will not be fully covered by insurance. We may face new competitors. Other established or start-up shipping operators may enter our markets to compete with us for business. Existing non-Jones Act qualified shipping operators whose container ships sail between ports in Asia and the U.S. west coast could add Hawaii, Guam or Alaska as additional stops on their sailing routes for non-U.S. originated or destined cargo. Shipping operators could also add Puerto Rico as a new stop on sailings of their vessels between the continental U.S. and ports in Europe, the Caribbean, and Latin America for non-U.S. originated or destined cargo. Further, shipping operators could introduce U.S.-flagged vessels into service sailing between Guam and U.S. ports, including ports on the U.S. west coast or in Hawaii. On these routes to and from Guam no limits would apply as to the origin or destination of the cargo dropped off or picked up. In addition, current or new U.S. citizen shipping operators may purchase or charter vessels currently being built in U.S. shipyards or order the building of new vessels by U.S. shipyards and may introduce these U.S.-built vessels into Jones Act qualified service on one or more of our trade routes. These potential competitors may have access to financial resources substantially greater than our own. The entry of a new competitor on any of our trade routes could result in a significant increase in available shipping capacity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In early 2005, Pasha Hawaii Transport Lines, a joint venture between The Pasha Group, a California-based automobile handling and logistics company, and Strong Vessel Operators LLC, a Connecticut-based operator of a U.S.-flagged ship on a trade route between the U.S. east coast and the Azores, began a Jones Act qualified shipping service between Hawaii and San Diego, utilizing one roll-on/roll-off vessel. Pasha Hawaii has targeted newly manufactured vehicles, including Chrysler and American Honda vehicles, privately-owned vehicles being shipped to and from Hawaii and larger, rolling-stock pieces, including tractors and military vehicles and equipment. Pasha Hawaii’s new service has had some limited effect on Horizon Lines through the loss of some vehicle business. We have also seen some downward rate pressure, resulting in eroding margins on vehicle shipments. We may not exercise our purchase options for our chartered vessels. We intend to exercise our purchase options for up to three of the vessels that we have chartered upon the expiration of their charters in January 2015. There can be no assurance that, when these 18 Table of Contents options become exercisable, the price at which these vessels may be purchased will be reasonable in light of the fair market value of these vessels at such time or that we will have the funds required to make these purchases. As a result, we may not exercise our options to purchase these vessels. If we do not exercise our options, we may need to renew our existing charters for these vessels or charter replacement vessels. There can be no assurance that our existing charters will be renewed, or, if renewed, that they will be renewed at favorable rates, or, if not renewed, that we will be able to charter replacement vessels at favorable rates. We may face unexpected substantial drydocking costs for our vessels. Our vessels are drydocked periodically for repairs and renewals. The cost of repairs and renewals at each drydocking are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial. We have performed approximately 6 or 7 drydockings per year over the last 5 years, with minimal impact on schedules. In addition, our vessels may have to be drydocked in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage. Our insurance may not cover all of these costs. Large unpredictable drydocking expenses could significantly decrease our profits. Loss of our key management personnel could adversely affect our business. Our future success will depend, in significant part, upon the continued services of Charles G. Raymond, our President and Chief Executive Officer, John V. Keenan, our Senior Vice President and Chief Transportation Officer, John W. Handy, an Executive Vice President, and M. Mark Urbania, our Senior Vice President—Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers could adversely affect our future operating results because of their experience and knowledge of our business and customer relationships. If key employees depart, we may have to incur significant costs to replace them and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace them in a timely manner. We do not expect to maintain key person insurance on any of our executive officers. We are subject to, and may in the future be subject to, disputes, or legal or other proceedings, that could have a material adverse effect on us. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for disputes, or legal or other proceedings, from time to time relating to labor and employment matters, personal injury and property damage, environmental matters and other matters, as discussed in the other risk factors disclosed in this Form 10-K. In addition, as a common carrier, our tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with our customers are governed by extensive and complex foreign, federal, state and local regulations which are the subject of disputes or administrative and/or judicial proceedings from time to time. These disputes, individually or collectively, could harm our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business. If these disputes develop into proceedings, these proceedings, individually or collectively, could involve significant expenditures by us or result in significant changes to our tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with our customers that could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and profitability. We are currently subject to two actions before the Surface Transportation Board (“STB”). The first action, brought by the Government of Guam in 1998 on behalf of itself and its citizens against the Company and Matson, seeks a ruling from the STB that Horizon Lines’ Guam shipping rates during 1996-1998 were “unreasonable” under the ICC Termination Act of 1995, and an order awarding reparations to Guam and its citizens. The second action, brought by DHX, Inc., a freight forwarder, in 1999 against the Company and Matson, challenges the reasonableness of certain rates and practices of the defendants in the Hawaii trade. DHX is seeking $11.0 million in damages. An adverse decision in either of these actions could also affect the rates that Horizon Lines would be permitted to charge on 19 Table of Contents its routes and could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and profitability. No assurance can be given that the final decision of the STB with respect to either action will be favorable to us. For additional information concerning the two actions before the STB, see “Item 3.—Legal Proceedings,” beginning on page 26 of this Form 10-K. Our cash flows and capital resources may be insufficient to make required payments on our substantial indebtedness and future indebtedness. As of December 25, 2005, on a consolidated basis, we had (i) approximately $530.6 million of outstanding long-term debt (exclusive of outstanding letters of credit with an aggregate face amount of $6.9 million), including capital lease obligations, (ii) approximately $245.0 million of aggregate trade payables, accrued liabilities and other balance sheet liabilities (other than the long-term debt referred to above) and (iii) a debt-to-equity ratio of approximately 3.5:1.0. Because we have substantial debt, we require significant amounts of cash to fund our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate cash to meet scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to our debt depends on our financial and operating performance which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the following financial and business factors, some of which may be beyond our control: Ÿ operating difficulties; Ÿ increased operating costs; Ÿ increased fuel costs; Ÿ general economic conditions; Ÿ decreased demand for our services; Ÿ market cyclicality; Ÿ tariff rates; Ÿ prices for our services; Ÿ the actions of competitors; Ÿ regulatory developments; and Ÿ delays in implementing strategic projects. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain additional equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In particular, in the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service obligations, we cannot be sure as to the timing of such dispositions or the proceeds that we would realize therefrom. The value realized from such dispositions will depend on market conditions and the availability of buyers, and, consequently, any such disposition may not, among other things, result in sufficient cash proceeds to repay our indebtedness. Also, the senior credit facility and the indentures governing the 9% senior notes due 2012 (the “9% senior notes”) and the 11% senior discount notes due 2013 (the “11% senior discount notes”) contain covenants that may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Further, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, given the uncertainty of prevailing market conditions from time to time, our high levels of indebtedness and the various debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the senior credit facility and the indentures for the 9% 20 Table of Contents senior notes and the 11% senior discount notes. If we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, the economic terms on which such indebtedness is restructured, refinanced or obtained may not be favorable to us. We may incur substantial indebtedness in the future. The terms of the senior credit facility and the indentures governing the 9% senior notes and the 11% senior discount notes permit us to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness under certain circumstances. As of December 25, 2005, Horizon Lines Holding and Horizon Lines had approximately $43.1 million of additional borrowing availability under the revolving credit facility, subject to compliance with the financial and other covenants and the other terms set forth therein. Our incurrence of additional indebtedness would intensify the risk that our future cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our substantial indebtedness. If non-U.S. citizens own more than 19.9% of our stock, we may not have the funds or the ability to redeem any excess shares and we could be forced to suspend our Jones Act operations. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions voiding transfers of shares of any class or series of our capital stock that would result in non-U.S. citizens, in the aggregate, owning in excess of 19.9% of the shares of such class or series. In the event that this transfer restriction would be ineffective, our certificate of incorporation provides for the automatic transfer of such excess shares to a trust specified therein. These trust provisions also apply to excess shares that would result from a change in the status of a record or beneficial owner of shares of our capital stock from a U.S. citizen to a non-U.S. citizen. In the event that these trust transfer provisions would also be ineffective, our certificate of incorporation permits us to redeem such excess shares. However, we may not be able to redeem such excess shares because our operations may not have generated sufficient excess cash flow to fund such a redemption. If such a situation occurs, there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the funds necessary to effect such a redemption on terms satisfactory to us or at all. The senior credit facility permits upstream payments from our subsidiaries, subject to exceptions, to the Company to fund redemptions of excess shares. However, the terms of the indentures of our subsidiaries governing the 9% senior notes and the 11% senior discount notes contain limitations on upstream payments which provide no specific exceptions to fund such redemptions of excess shares and any future indebtedness of our subsidiaries may contain similar limitations. If, for any of the foregoing reasons or otherwise, we are unable to effect such a redemption when such ownership of shares by non-U.S. citizens is in excess of 25.0% of such class or series, or otherwise prevent non-U.S. citizens in the aggregate from owning shares in excess of 25.0% of any such class or series, or fail to exercise our redemption right because we are unaware that such ownership exceeds such percentage, we will likely be unable to comply with applicable maritime laws. If all of the citizenship-related safeguards in our certificate of incorporation fail at a time when ownership of shares of any class or series of our stock is in excess of 25.0% of such class or series, we will likely be required to suspend our Jones Act operations. Any such actions by governmental authorities would have a severely detrimental impact on our results of operations. We may not have the necessary funds to pay dividends on our common stock or we may elect not to pay dividends on our common stock. We require continuing, significant cash flow in order for us to make payments of regular dividends to our stockholders. However, we have no operations of our own and have derived, and will continue to derive, all of our revenues and cash flow from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us. They may not have sufficient funds or assets to permit payments to us in amounts sufficient to fund future dividend payments. Also, our subsidiaries are subject to contractual restrictions (including with 21 Table of Contents their secured and unsecured creditors) that may limit their ability to upstream cash indirectly or directly to us. The senior credit facility under which two of our wholly owned indirect subsidiaries, HLHC and HL are co-borrowers and their respective subsidiaries are guarantors, currently prohibits upstream payments to our direct wholly owned subsidiary HLFHC, the direct parent of HLHC, if an event of default has occurred and is continuing, or would occur as a result of such upstream payments or if certain other conditions are not satisfied. In addition, the indenture governing the 9% senior notes co-issued by HLHC and HL, and guaranteed by their respective subsidiaries, generally prohibits the upstreaming of funds by these co-issuers or their subsidiaries to H-Lines Finance, unless certain financial and other covenants specified therein are complied with after giving effect to such payment. The indenture governing the 11% senior discount notes issued by H-Lines Finance contains similar restrictions on the ability of H-Lines Finance to upstream to us any cash that it may receive or generate. Thus, there is a significant risk that we may not have the requisite funds to make regular dividend payments in the future. In addition, we may elect not to pay dividends as a substantial portion of our future earnings will be utilized to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and to fund the development and growth of our business. Our controlling stockholder may take actions that compete with your interests. Castle Harlan and its affiliates and associates (collectively, “The Castle Harlan Group”) own approximately 37% of our common stock. John K. Castle, who controls a majority of the shares of our common stock held by The Castle Harlan Group, is the voting trustee, pursuant to the voting trust agreement, with respect to the shares of our common stock held by our pre-initial public offering stockholders (other than the funds and accounts that are members of The Castle Harlan Group), representing approximately 21% of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Castle has approximately 57% of the total voting power of the outstanding shares of our common stock on all matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders, including the election of directors. So long as either The Castle Harlan Group continues to own a significant portion of the outstanding shares of our common stock, or our pre-initial public offering stockholders continue to own a significant portion of the outstanding shares of our common stock and the voting trust remains in effect, The Castle Harlan Group, or Mr. Castle, as the case may be, effectively have the power to elect our directors, subject to compliance with applicable New York Stock Exchange requirements, and control our decisions, policies, management and affairs, and corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the approval of transactions involving a change in control. The interests of The Castle Harlan Group, or Mr. Castle, may not coincide with the interests of our other stockholders. In particular, The Castle Harlan Group is in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time, acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. The Castle Harlan Group may also pursue, for its own account, acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. Financial and other covenants under our current and future indebtedness could significantly impair our ability to operate our business. The senior credit facility contains covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of Horizon Lines Holding and its subsidiaries to: Ÿ dispose of assets; Ÿ incur additional indebtedness, including guarantees; Ÿ prepay other indebtedness or amend other debt instruments; Ÿ pay dividends or make investments, loans or advances; Ÿ create liens on assets; Ÿ enter into sale and lease-back transactions; 22 Table of Contents Ÿ engage in mergers, acquisitions or consolidations; Ÿ change the business conducted by them; and Ÿ engage in transactions with affiliates. In addition, under the senior credit facility, Horizon Lines Holding and its subsidiaries are required to comply with financial covenants, comprised of leverage and interest coverage ratio requirements. Their ability to comply with these covenants will depend on their ongoing financial and operating performance, which in turn will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market and competitive factors, many of which are beyond their control, and will be substantially dependent on our financial and operating performance which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to various financial and business factors, including those discussed in the other risk factors disclosed in this Form 10-K, some of which may be beyond our control. Under the senior credit facility, Horizon Lines and Horizon Lines Holding are required, subject to certain exceptions, to make mandatory prepayments of amounts under the senior credit facility with all or a portion of the net proceeds of certain asset sales and events of loss, certain debt issuances, certain equity issuances and a portion of their excess cash flow. Our circumstances at the time of any such prepayment, particularly our liquidity and ability to access funds, cannot be anticipated at this time. Any such prepayment could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. Mandatory prepayments are first applied to the outstanding term loans and, after all of the term loans are paid in full, then applied to reduce the loans under the revolving credit facility with corresponding reductions in revolving credit facility commitments. The indentures that govern the 9% senior notes and the 11% senior discount notes also contain restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit the ability of Horizon Lines Holding and its subsidiaries, in the case of the 9% senior notes, and H-Lines Finance Holding, in the case of the 11% senior discount notes, to: Ÿ incur more debt; Ÿ pay dividends, redeem stock or make other distributions; Ÿ make investments; Ÿ create liens; Ÿ transfer or sell assets; Ÿ merge or consolidate; and Ÿ enter into transactions with our affiliates. The senior credit facility and the indentures that govern the 9% senior notes and the 11% senior discount notes contain cross-default provisions that may result in nearly all of our indebtedness coming due simultaneously. The breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in the senior credit facility could result in a default under the indenture governing the 9% senior notes that would permit the noteholders thereunder to declare all amounts outstanding under such indenture to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, resulting in the acceleration of the amounts outstanding under the senior credit facility as well. Similarly, the breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in the indenture governing the 9% senior notes would permit the lenders under the senior credit facility to declare all amounts outstanding under such facility to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, resulting in the acceleration of the amounts outstanding under such indenture. In the event of a breach of any of the covenants or restrictions contained in the senior credit facility or the indenture governing the 9% senior notes, the noteholders under the indenture governing the 11% 23 Table of Contents senior discount notes would be permitted to declare all amounts outstanding under such indenture to be due and payable. If the indebtedness under the senior credit facility and the indentures governing the 9% senior notes and the 11% senior discount notes were all to be accelerated, the aggregate amount of indebtedness immediately due and payable as of December 25, 2005 would have been approximately $525.6 million. We do not have sufficient liquidity to repay this amount if all of such indebtedness were to be accelerated, and we may not have sufficient liquidity in the future and may not be able to borrow money from other lenders to enable us to refinance all of such indebtedness. Our substantial indebtedness and future indebtedness could significantly impair our operating and financial condition. The required payments on our substantial indebtedness and future indebtedness, as well as the restrictive covenants contained in the senior credit facility and the indentures governing the 9% senior notes and the 11% senior discount notes, could significantly impair our operating and financial condition. For example, these required payments and restrictive covenants could: Ÿ make it difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; Ÿ make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; Ÿ limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; Ÿ expose us to interest rate fluctuations because the interest rate on the debt under our revolving credit facility is variable; Ÿ require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes; Ÿ limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and Ÿ place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt. We may incur substantial indebtedness in the future. Our incurrence of additional indebtedness would intensify the risks described above. The senior credit facility exposes us to the variability of interest rates. Horizon Lines Holding and Horizon Lines have outstanding a $246.9 million term loan, which bears interest at variable rates. Horizon Lines Holding and Horizon Lines also have a revolving credit facility which provides for borrowings of up to $50.0 million, which bears interest at variable rates. The interest rates applicable to the senior credit facility vary with the prevailing corporate base rate offered by the administrative agent under the senior credit facility or with LIBOR. If these rates were to increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds may be reduced and the risks related to our substantial indebtedness would intensify. Each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $0.6 million change in annual interest expense on the term loan. Accordingly, a significant rise in interest rates would adversely affect our financial results. Integrating acquisitions may be time-consuming and create costs that could reduce our net income and cash flows. Part of our growth strategy may include pursuing acquisitions. Any integration process may be complex and time-consuming, may be disruptive to our business and may cause an interruption of, or a distraction of our management’s attention from, our business as a result of a number of obstacles, including but not limited to: Ÿ the loss of key customers of the acquired company; 24 Table of Contents Ÿ the incurrence of unexpected expenses and working capital requirements; Ÿ a failure of our due diligence process to identify significant issues or contingencies; Ÿ difficulties assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired company; Ÿ difficulties effectively integrating the acquired technologies with our current technologies; Ÿ our inability to retain key personnel of acquired entities; Ÿ a failure to maintain the quality of customer service; Ÿ our inability to achieve the financial and strategic goals for the acquired and combined businesses; and Ÿ difficulty in maintaining internal controls, procedures and policies. Any of the foregoing obstacles, or a combination of them, could negatively impact our net income and cash flows. We have not completed any acquisitions to date. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, future acquisitions are accompanied by the risk that the obligations and liabilities of an acquired company may not be adequately reflected in the historical financial statements of that company and the risk that those historical financial statements may be based on assumptions which are incorrect or inconsistent with our assumptions or approach to accounting policies. Any of such obligations, liabilities or incorrect or inconsistent assumptions could adversely impact our results of operations. We may be exposed to potential risks resulting from new requirements that we evaluate our internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that publicly reporting companies cause their managements to perform annual assessments of the effectiveness of their internal controls over financial reporting and their independent auditors to prepare reports that address such assessments. As a result of the initial public offering and the exchange offers for the 9% senior notes and the 11% senior discount notes, the Company and all of its subsidiaries are required to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 for the fiscal year ended December 24, 2006. If we are able to proceed with a complete assessment in a timely manner, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate, may identify deficiencies which will demand significant resources to remediate or may be unable to identify existing deficiencies at all. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to helping prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and the trading price of the common stock could drop significantly. Our compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may require significant expenses and management resources that would need to be diverted from our other operations and could require a restructuring of our internal financial reporting. Any such expenses, time reallocations or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The applicability of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to us could make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our boards of directors (and, particularly, our audit committee), or to serve as executive officers. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 25 Table of Contents 