ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Operations Because we have no substantial history of manufacturing precision driveshafts, we cannot be certain that efforts to enter this new market will be successful. While we anticipate leveraging our technology to become a leading manufacturer of precision driveshafts for specialty vehicles in the near future, we have not yet manufactured precision driveshafts for our customers beyond limited production of prototype models. While we expect that our executives’ experience in the automotive industry will help facilitate our entry into the market for increased precision driveshaft manufacturing operations, we cannot be certain that efforts to grow our precision driveshaft manufacturing business will be successful. In addition, the ability to manage our overall anticipated growth will depend on the ability of our management team to work together effectively, and we will need to add operations, quality control and logistics personnel who will all require substantial training and effective management. If we are unable to successfully manage our anticipated growth or improve our operations capabilities, our financial results or business prospects could be harmed. Upon increasing our precision driveshaft output, we will also be exposed to greater risks of price increases and periodic delays in the delivery of components and raw materials necessary for our precision driveshaft manufacturing process. Fluctuations in the prices of such components and materials, or delays in the delivery of such components and materials by our suppliers, could impair our ability to market and sell precision driveshafts, which in turn may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To reduce our immediate exposure, we will continue to market and attempt to fulfill low volume orders that require minimum amounts of components and raw materials. If we are unable to manage our anticipated growth effectively, our business could be harmed. If we fail to manage our growth, our financial results and business prospects may be harmed. To manage our growth and to execute our business plan efficiently, we will need to institute operational, financial and management controls, as well as reporting systems and procedures. We also must effectively expand, train and manage our employee base. We cannot assure you we will be successful in any of these endeavors. International sales account for a significant portion of our net revenue and risks inherent in international sales could harm our business. International sales represent a significant portion of our total revenue. For example, international sales represented 67% of our total product sales for fiscal 2005, 19% for fiscal 2004, and 3% for fiscal 2003. We anticipate that our total product revenue from international sales will continue to increase. Our international business is subject to the financial and operating risks of conducting business internationally, including: • unexpected changes in, or the imposition of, additional legislative or regulatory requirements; • fluctuating exchange rates; • tariffs and other barriers; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales operations; • import and export restrictions; • greater difficulties in accounts receivable collection and longer payment cycles; 11 Table of Contents • potentially adverse tax consequences; • potential hostilities and changes in diplomatic and trade relationships; • disruption in services due to natural disaster, economic or political difficulties, quarantines, or other restrictions associated with infectious diseases. Because we have not generated significant revenue from our testing services, you have a limited amount of information to value our business prospects for our testing services. While we have designed, developed, produced and marketed assembly and testing equipment to the automotive and heavy equipment industries since 1993, our experience primarily has been limited to developing and producing such equipment specifically for an individual customer for use in such customer’s facility. We anticipate that testing services conducted at our facilities will generate a greater percentage of our revenue in the future, but we cannot assure you that our efforts to increase our revenues from sales of testing services will be successful. For example: • our customers may choose to test their axles internally rather than outsourcing their testing needs to us; and • providing testing services at our facilities involves transporting our customers’ axles during the production process, which may not meet the production schedule requirements of our customers. The occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events, could result in our inability to commercialize our testing services, which would cause adverse effects to our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, because we have not generated significant revenue from sales of testing services to date, we have limited financial, operational and manufacturing data that you can use to evaluate our business prospects for providing testing services. Any evaluation of our business prospects for our testing services must be considered in light of our limited history of selling testing services directly to our customers. We may need to raise additional funds in order to finance the commercialization of our testing services and manufacturing operations, which if unavailable to us, would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our commercialization efforts. We currently lack the resources and capacity to manufacture driveshafts or to provide testing services on a commercial scale. At December 31, 2005, we had approximately $2.0 million of cash, cash equivalents or marketable securities. We used a substantial portion of the net proceeds of our initial public offering to reduce the outstanding balance under our revolving credit facility, and at December 31, 2005 we had no borrowings under this facility. We believe that our existing cash balance, the borrowing capacity under our credit facility plus revenues from the sale of our testing equipment and testing services and from manufacturing precision driveshafts will be sufficient to fund our liquidity requirements through the end of 2006. If we cannot generate a sufficient amount of revenue from our operations or if we are unable to borrow additional funds under our credit facility, we will need to finance our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings or debt financings. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our commercialization efforts. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our shareholders may experience additional dilution, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants. If we are unable to access additional borrowings under our credit facility, we will not be able to implement our business plan. Our credit facility with Comerica Bank is an $8.0 million revolving credit facility that matures in January 2007. We were required by the terms of our credit facility to use a substantial portion of the net proceeds from our initial public offering to reduce the balance under our credit facility. As of December 31, 2005, we had no borrowings outstanding under our credit facility; however, we issued standby letters of credit totaling $0.4 million which reduced our availability under the facility by the same amount. Our credit facility contains financial covenants that limit our ability to borrow based on the amount of our tangible net worth. If we are unable to access additional borrowings under our credit facility, we would face significant operating and financial constraints, which would cause adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. These effects could include the inability to fund operations and to implement our business plan. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to protect our licenses, patents and proprietary rights in the United States and foreign countries, our business could be harmed because third parties may take advantage of our research and development efforts. We have 14 issued United States patents covering our manufacturing processes and their use, and we have been issued numerous patent claims in these patents for gear testing, precision presses, engine assembly and axle testing. We have many more patent claims in pending patent applications filed in the United States and foreign countries for precision balances, driveshaft manufacturing, engine assembly and gear rollers. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary right protection for our technologies and products in the United States and other countries. If we are unable to obtain, protect and enforce these protections, we may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary rights. We also have several patent applications pending in the United States as well as foreign countries regarding manufacturing technology. These pending patents may not be issued, and we can not assure you that any patents we do obtain as a result of our pending patent applications will provide a basis for commercially viable products or will provide any competitive advantages for our existing products and services. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may encounter significant problems and costs in protecting our proprietary rights in these foreign countries. Our patent protection involves complex legal and technical questions. Our patents and those patents for which we have license rights may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated or circumvented. We may be able to protect our proprietary rights from infringement by third parties only to the extent that our proprietary technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, our trade secret-protected know-how could fall into the public domain, and unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our products and obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. Litigation or other proceedings to defend or enforce our intellectual property rights could require us to spend significant time and money and could otherwise adversely affect our business. Our business is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified key employees. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified employees in the areas of engineering, operations and management. In 2005, we lost the services of James Juranitch, our Chief Technology Officer, Todd C. Antenucci, our President, and David V. Harper, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. We have since promoted Donald F. Brown to President and Chief Operating Officer, and are greatly influenced by the efforts and abilities of Mr. Brown. We have not entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Brown; however, Mr. Brown is bound by covenants not to compete with us. Competition to retain our key personnel and attract qualified individuals from other companies, including our competitors and companies in technology-related industries, is intense. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or are unable to attract new, qualified personnel, our financial results or business prospects may be harmed. Other companies might claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our technology. Although we are not aware of any claims that we infringe anyone’s intellectual property rights, our success depends, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing valid, enforceable patents or proprietary rights of third parties or breaching any licenses that may relate to our technology and products. Future patents issued to third parties, however, could contain claims that conflict with our patents and that compete with our products and technologies, and third parties could assert infringement claims against us. Any litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of their outcome, may be costly and may require significant time and attention of our management and technical personnel. Litigation or interference proceedings could also force us to: • stop or delay using our technology; • stop or delay our customers from selling, manufacturing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • pay damages; or • enter into licensing or royalty agreements that may be unavailable on acceptable terms. Any of these events could have adverse effects on our results of operations and could be damaging to our business. Revenues generated from sales in one of our key businesses may negatively impact sales in other lines of our business, which may materially and adversely affect our operations. Customers that purchase our specialty equipment are able to conduct the same testing functions and manufacture similar precision driveshafts that we will market to such customers in the future. Although we believe that 13 Table of Contents providing testing services and manufacturing precision driveshafts for these customers will help reduce their staffing and training costs, as well as reduce the time and expenses associated with operating and maintaining the specialty equipment on their own facilities, these customers may not order testing services or precision driveshafts from us in the future, which may materially and adversely affect our operations. In addition, certain customers of our specialty equipment and testing services also manufacture driveshafts that are sold to the same OEMs to whom we will market our precision driveshafts in the near future. Because we may be perceived by these customers as a potential competitor in the driveshaft market, their orders for specialty equipment and testing services could decline, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because we depend on a limited number of customers, the loss or insolvency of any significant customer could cause a significant decline in our revenue and net income Three customers accounted for 54%, 77% and 85% of our revenue in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Although we intend to add customers as we grow our business, the loss of any significant customer will have material adverse effects on our results of operations and business. In addition, our sales are highly concentrated among a few major automotive and heavy truck OEMs and automotive suppliers. We expect that sales to automotive customers will continue to represent a significant percentage of our revenue for the foreseeable future. As is typical in the automotive supply industry, we have no long-term contracts with any of our customers. There is substantial and continuing pressure from the major OEMs and Tier I suppliers to reduce costs while improving product quality. If our manufacturing processes and testing services do not generate sufficient production quality at cost savings for our customers, our revenues and net income could significantly decline. We may not be able to timely or successfully launch our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. In order to further the development of our precision driveshafts, as well as increase our existing sales of testing services and specialty equipment, we will depend on close relationships with our customers and their willingness to share proprietary information about their requirements and participate in collaborative efforts with us. We cannot assure you that our customers will provide us with timely access to such information. As a result, we may fail to successfully provide such products and testing services on a timely basis, which would result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. We may be unable to effectively respond to technological change, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology. Our future success will depend upon our ability to enhance our current products and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments and evolving industry standards and respond to changes in customer requirements. If we fail to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements, or experience significant delays in product development or introduction, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. Our operating results may fluctuate because we operate primarily in the automotive industry, which is cyclical and seasonal. If we are successful in implementing our business plan, sales that we generate from testing services and precision driveshafts will be directly related to domestic automotive production, which is itself cyclical and dependent on general economic conditions, consumer spending and other factors. As a result, economic factors adversely affecting automotive production, in general and consumer spending could adversely impact our business. Furthermore, sales of our axle testing services will depend on continued consumer demand for rear-wheel drive vehicles, including SUVs, luxury pickup trucks and luxury sedans. There is no assurance that positive trends in sales of these vehicles will continue. A decrease in consumer demand for these vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, the automotive component supply industry is somewhat seasonal. Our need for continued significant expenditures for capital equipment purchases, equipment development and ongoing product and manufacturing improvement and support, among other factors, make it difficult for us to reduce operating expenses in a particular period if our forecasts for such period are not met, because a substantial component of our operating expenses are fixed costs. 14 Table of Contents Future work stoppages affecting our customers could adversely affect our results of operations and business. Substantially all of the hourly employees of our OEM and Tier 1 supplier customers are represented by labor unions and work pursuant to collective bargaining agreements. The failure of any of our significant customers to reach agreement with a labor union on a timely basis, resulting in either a work stoppage or strike, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and business. We may face substantial competition from competitors who may have superior resources, including our current and potential customers who may decide to manufacture all of their products and perform all of their testing services internally, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. The automotive supply industry is highly competitive with a number of other manufacturers that produce competitive products. Quality, delivery and price, as well as technological innovation, are the primary elements of competition. There can be no assurance that our products will compete successfully with those of our competitors. Certain of our competitors are more diversified than we are and have greater access to financial resources than we do. There can be no assurance that our business will not be adversely affected by increased competition or that we will be able to maintain our profitability if the competitive environment changes. Further, we face competition from the manufacturing operations of our current and potential customers, including Visteon, who are continually evaluating the merits of manufacturing products and performing testing internally against the advantages of outsourcing to suppliers, such as us. As we enter the driveshaft manufacturing business, our customers with driveshaft manufacturing operations such as Visteon may not order testing services or precision driveshafts from us because they view us as a competitor, which may materially and adversely affect our operations. We will face an inherent risk of product liability exposure. Although we anticipate producing precision driveshafts that will meet or exceed our customers’ specifications, we cannot assure you that material product liability losses will not occur in the future if the failure one of our driveshafts results in personal injury or death. In addition, if any of our driveshafts prove to be defective, we may be required to participate in a recall. Prior to commencing our precision driveshaft manufacturing operations, we intend to obtain insurance against product liability claims, but we cannot assure you that such coverage will be adequate and will continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. A successful claim brought against us in excess of available insurance coverage or a requirement to participate in any product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business. We dedicate considerable resources to research and development activities. We make significant investments in research and development activities to develop new products and improve the technologies in our existing products. There can be no assurance, however, that our research and development efforts will result in new or improved products or improve the technologies in our existing products. We face risks relating to future acquisitions. We may make acquisitions in the future in order to enable us to expand into new geographic markets, add new customers, provide new products, expand manufacturing and service capabilities or increase penetration with existing customers. Integration of any future acquisitions may place a strain upon our managerial and financial resources, including diversion of management’s attention to the assimilation of the acquired business and our assumption of potential liabilities of the acquired businesses. Realization of the full benefits of our acquisitions will require: • the integration of administrative, finance, purchasing, engineering, sales and marketing organizations; • the coordination of production efforts; and • the implementation of appropriate operational, financial and management systems and controls. We cannot assure you that we will be able to integrate these operations successfully. Failure to successfully integrate an acquired business could result in material adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition, failure to realize expected earnings contributions and diversion of senior management’s attention from other important matters. 15 Table of Contents We are subject to the potential risks associated with international operations that could adversely affect our business. We do not have international operations at this time, but we do have foreign customers and foreign final destinations for our specialty equipment. If we establish international operations involving our manufacturing or testing operations and continue to deliver equipment to foreign destinations we may be subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, compliance with local laws and other regulatory requirements, restrictions on the repatriation of funds, inflationary conditions, political and economic instability, war or other hostilities, inconsistent tax structures and expropriation or nationalization of assets. The inability to effectively manage these and other risks could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and business. Risks Relating to our Common Stock Our principal shareholders, executive officers and directors hold a significant percentage of our common stock, and these shareholders may take actions that may be adverse to your interests. Our principal shareholders, executive officers and directors beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 34% of our common stock as of March 27, 2006. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, consolidations, sales and purchases of assets. They also could dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall or prevent you from receiving a premium in such a transaction. The price of our common stock is highly volatile. The trading price of our common stock is highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • the degree to which we successfully implement our business strategy; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly or annual operating results; • changes in recommendations by the investment community or in their estimates of our revenues or operating results; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by our competitors; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; and • changes in business conditions affecting us and our customers. The market prices of securities of companies without consistent product revenues and earnings, have been highly volatile and are likely to remain highly volatile in the future. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, class action litigation has often been brought against the company. If a securities class action suit is filed against us, whether or not meritorious, we would incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation. Future sales of our common stock could depress our stock price. Sales of a large number of shares of our common stock, or the availability of a large number of shares for sale, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise funds in additional stock offerings. Approximately 4,875,000 of our shares are eligible for sale in the public market, approximately 1,700,000 of which are subject to applicable volume limitations and other restrictions set forth in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Antitakeover provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws and provisions of Michigan law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. Our Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws and Michigan law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to you. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Because of these provisions, you might not be able to receive a premium on your investment. These provisions: • authorize our board of directors, with approval by a majority of our independent directors but without requiring shareholder consent, to issue shares of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by our board of directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and prevent a takeover attempt; 16 Table of Contents • limit our shareholders’ ability to call a special meeting of our shareholders; and • limit our shareholders’ ability to amend, alter or repeal our bylaws. Any of the provisions described above could delay or make more difficult transactions involving a change in control of us or our management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 