Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company Has Received a Subpoena From the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice Regarding Possible Antitrust Violations in the Domestic Ocean Shipping Business, and Numerous Purported Class Action Lawsuits Have Been Filed Against the Company. The Government Investigation and the Related Antitrust Lawsuits Could Have a Material Effect on Our Business. On April 17, 2008, the Company received a federal grand jury subpoena and search warrant from the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida seeking information regarding an investigation by the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice (“DOJ”) into possible antitrust violations in the domestic ocean shipping business. Subsequently, the DOJ expanded the timeframe covered by the subpoena. The Company is currently providing documents to the DOJ in response to the subpoenas, and the Company intends to continue to fully cooperate with the DOJ in its investigation. Subsequent to the commencement of the DOJ investigation, fifty-six purported class action lawsuits were filed against the Company and other domestic shipping carriers alleging price-fixing in violation of the Sherman Act. The complaints seek treble monetary damages, costs, attorneys’ fees, and an injunction against the allegedly unlawful conduct. The federal cases have been consolidated by the federal Panel on Multidistrict Litigation in the District of Puerto Rico for the cases including the Puerto Rico tradelane and the Western District of Washington for the cases including the Hawaii and Guam tradelanes. A similar complaint was filed in Duval County, Florida, against the Company and other domestic shipping carriers by a customer alleging price-fixing in violation of the Florida Antitrust Act and the Florida Deceptive and Unlawful Trade Practices Act. 11 Table of Contents In addition, the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and four former employees were named in two securities class action lawsuits filed in the District of Delaware, alleging that the defendants made material misrepresentations and omissions with respect to the alleged price-fixing and violations of the Sherman Act. Three of the former employees named in these lawsuits plead guilty to a conspiracy to eliminate competition and raise prices for moving freight between the continental U.S. and Puerto Rico. It is possible that the government investigation may lead to a criminal conviction or settlement providing for the payment of substantial fines. It is also possible that the outcome of the investigation would damage the reputation of the Company and might impair the ability of the Company to conduct its ocean shipping business in one or more of the domestic trade lanes or with one or more of its customers. Further, it is possible that there could be unfavorable outcomes in the lawsuits that could result in the payment by us of substantial monetary damages.. Management cannot predict or determine the timing or final outcomes of the investigation or the lawsuits and is unable to estimate the amount or range of loss that could result from unfavorable outcomes but, adverse results in some or all of these legal proceedings could be material to the Company’s results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Further, the legal costs associated with the investigation and the lawsuits and the amount of time required to be spent by management and the board of directors on these matters, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to expenses incurred to defend the Company in these matters, under Delaware law and our bylaws, we may have an additional obligation to indemnify our current and former officers and directors in relation to those matters, and we have advanced, and may continue to advance, legal fees and expenses to certain other current and former employees. Recent Deterioration in the Economy and Credit Markets May Adversely Affect Our Future Results of Operations. Recently, the credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the United States federal government. While the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it may have a material adverse effect on the Company and ability to borrow money in the credit markets and potentially to draw on our revolving credit facility or otherwise. Similarly, our customers may be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability to ship containers or to pay for any services they do purchase on a timely basis, if at all. The Recent Changes in General Economic Conditions, and the Impact on Consumer Confidence and Consumer Spending Could Result in a Decrease in Shipping Volume in Our Markets Which Would Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. Demand for our shipping services depends on levels of shipping in our Jones Act markets and in the Guam market, as well as on economic and trade growth and logistics. Recently, consumer confidence and consumer spending have deteriorated significantly, and could remain depressed for an extended period. Consumer purchases or discretionary items generally decline during periods where disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty, and, as a result our customers may ship fewer containers or may ship containers only at reduced rates. For example, shipping volume in Puerto Rico and Hawaii were both down 5% in 2008 as compared to 2007 as a result of economic conditions. This decrease in shipping volume could adversely impact our results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Our Share Price Will Fluctuate. Stock markets in general and our common stock in particular have experienced significant price and volume volatility over the past year. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions but also to variability in the prevailing sentiment regarding our operations or business prospects, as well as potential further slides of our common stock due to margin calls on loans secured by pledges of our common stock. If We do not Meet the New York Stock Exchange Continued Listing Requirements, Our Common Stock May be Delisted, and We May be Required to Repurchase or Refinance Our 4.25% Convertible Notes Due 2012. In order to maintain our listing on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”), we must continue to meet the NYSE minimum share price listing rule, the minimum market capitalization rule and other continued listing criteria. If our common stock were delisted, it could (i) reduce the liquidity and market price of our common stock; (ii) negatively impact our ability to raise equity financing and access the public capital markets; and (iii) materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if our common stock is not listed on the NYSE or another national exchange, holders of our 4.25% convertible notes due 2012 will be entitled to require us to repurchase their convertible notes. Our senior secured credit facility provides that the occurrence of this repurchase right constitutes a default under such facility. We are Subject to Certain Risks With Respect to Our Counterparties on Contracts, and Failure of Such Counterparties to Meet Their Obligations Could Cause us to Suffer Losses or Otherwise Adversely Affect Our Business. We have entered into, among other things, an interest rate swap agreement and a convertible note bond hedge with various financial institutions, including Wachovia Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A. and Goldman Sachs. Such agreements subject us to counterparty risks. The ability of each of our counterparties to performs its obligations under a contract will depend upon a number of factors that are beyond our control and may include, among other things, general economic conditions and the overall financial condition of the counterparty. Should a counterparty fail to honor its obligations under agreements with us, we could sustain significant losses which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Further Economic Decline and Decrease in Market Demand For the Company’s Services in the Jones Act and Guam Markets Will Adversely Affect the Company’s Operating Results and Financial Condition. A further slowdown in economic conditions of our Jones Act and Guam markets may adversely affect our business. Demand for our shipping services depends on levels of shipping in our Jones Act markets and in the Guam market, as well as on economic and trade growth and logistics. Cyclical or other recessions in the continental U.S. or in these markets can negatively affect our operating results, as customers may ship fewer containers or may ship containers only at reduced rates. For example, shipping volume in Puerto Rico and Hawaii was down approximately 5% in 2008 as compared to 2007 as a result of poor economic conditions. The economic downturn in Puerto Rico and Hawaii negatively affected our earnings. We cannot predict the length of the current economic downturn or whether further economic decline may occur. At this time, we are also unable to determine the impact to our customers and business, if any, of programs adopted by the U.S. or other governments to stabilize and support the economy. 13 Table of Contents Volatility in Fuel Prices May Adversely Affect Our Profits. Fuel is a significant operating expense for our shipping operations. The price and supply of fuel is unpredictable and fluctuates based on events outside our control, including geopolitical developments, supply and demand for oil and gas, actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, war and unrest in oil producing countries and regions, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. As a result, variability in the price of fuel, such as we are currently experiencing, may adversely affect profitability. There can be no assurance that our customers will agree to bear such fuel price increases via fuel surcharges without a reduction in their volumes of business with us nor any assurance that our future fuel hedging efforts, if any, will be successful. Repeal, Substantial Amendment, or Waiver of the Jones Act or Its Application Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. If the Jones Act were to be repealed, substantially amended, or waived and, as a consequence, competitors with lower operating costs were to enter any of our Jones Act markets, our business would be materially adversely affected. In addition, our advantage as a U.S.-citizen operator of Jones Act vessels could be eroded by periodic efforts and attempts by foreign interests to circumvent certain aspects of the Jones Act. If maritime cabotage services were included in the General Agreement on Trade in Services, the North American Free Trade Agreement or other international trade agreements, or if the restrictions contained in the Jones Act were otherwise altered, the shipping of maritime cargo between covered U.S. ports could be opened to foreign-flag or foreign-built vessels. In September 2005, the Department of Homeland Security issued limited temporary waivers of the Jones Act solely to permit the transport of petroleum and refined petroleum products in the United States in response to the damage caused to the nation’s oil and gas production facilities and pipelines by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. There can be no assurance as to the timing of any future waivers of the Jones Act or that any such waivers will be limited to the transport of petroleum and refined petroleum products. Change in Tax Laws or the Interpretation Thereof, Adverse Tax Audits and Other Tax Matters Related to Our Tonnage Tax Election or Such Tax May Adversely Affect Our Future Results. During 2006, after evaluating the merits and requirements of the tonnage tax, we elected the application of the tonnage tax instead of the federal corporate income tax on income from our qualifying shipping activities. Changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof, adverse tax audits, and other tax matters related to such tax election or such tax may adversely affect our future results. During the fourth quarter of 2007, a draft of a Technical Corrections Act proposed redefining the Puerto Rico trade to not qualify for application of the tonnage tax. The tax writing committee in Congress removed the tonnage tax repeal language from the Technical Corrections Act before its passage, but we cannot assure you that there will not be future efforts to repeal all, or any portion of, the tonnage tax as it applies to our shipping activities. Our Failure to Renew Our Commercial Agreements With Maersk in the Future Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business. We have several commercial agreements with Maersk, an international shipping company, that encompass terminal services, equipment sharing, cargo space charters, sales agency services, trucking services, and transportation services. For example, under these agreements, Maersk provides us with terminal services at five ports located in the continental U.S. (Elizabeth, New Jersey; Jacksonville, Florida; Houston, Texas; Oakland, California; and Tacoma, Washington). In general, these agreements, which were renewed and amended in December 2006, are currently scheduled to expire at the end of 2010. If we fail to renew these agreements in the future, the requirements of our business will necessitate that we enter into substitute commercial agreements with third parties for at least some portion of the services contemplated under our existing commercial agreements with 14 Table of Contents Maersk, such as terminal services at our ports located in the continental U.S. There can be no assurance that, if we fail to renew our commercial agreements with Maersk, we will be successful in negotiating and entering into substitute commercial agreements with third parties and, even if we succeed in doing so, the terms and conditions of these new agreements, individually or in the aggregate, may be significantly less favorable to us than the terms and conditions of our existing agreements with Maersk or others. Furthermore, if we do enter into substitute commercial agreements with third parties, changes in our operations to comply with the requirements of these new agreements (such as our use of other terminals in our existing ports in the continental U.S. or our use of other ports in the continental U.S.) may cause disruptions to our business, which could be significant, and may result in additional costs and expenses and possible losses of revenue. Our Industry is Unionized and Strikes By Our Union Employees or Others in the Industry May Disrupt Our Services and Adversely Affect Our Operations. As of December 21, 2008, we had 2,151 employees, of which 1,452 were unionized employees represented by seven different labor unions. Our industry is susceptible to work stoppages and other adverse employee actions due to the strong influence of maritime trade unions. We may be adversely affected by future industrial action against efforts by our management or the management of other companies in our industry to reduce labor costs, restrain wage increases or modify work practices. For example, in 2002 our operations at our U.S. west coast ports were significantly affected by a 10-day labor interruption by the International Longshore and Warehouse Union. This interruption affected ports and shippers throughout the U.S. west coast. In addition, in the future, we may not be able to negotiate, on terms and conditions favorable to us, renewals of our collective bargaining agreements with unions in our industry and strikes and disruptions may occur as a result of our failure or the failure of other companies in our industry to negotiate collective bargaining agreements with such unions successfully. Our collective bargaining agreements are scheduled to expire from 2010-2014. Our Employees are Covered By Federal Laws That May Subject Us to Job-Related Claims in Addition to Those Provided By State Laws. Some of our employees are covered by several maritime statutes, including provisions of the Jones Act, the Death on the High Seas Act, the Seamen’s Wage Act and general maritime law. These laws typically operate to make liability limits established by state workers’ compensation laws inapplicable to these employees and to permit these employees and their representatives to pursue actions against employers for job-related injuries in federal courts. Because we are not generally protected by the limits imposed by state workers’ compensation statutes for these employees, we may have greater exposure for any claims made by these employees than is customary in the United States. Due to Our Participation in Multi-Employer Pension Plans, We May Have Exposure Under Those Plans That Extends Beyond What Our Obligations Would Be With Respect to Our Employees. We contribute to fifteen multi-employer pension plans. In the event of a partial or complete withdrawal by us from any plan which is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Based on the limited information available from plan administrators, which we cannot independently validate, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full withdrawal or termination would be material to our financial position and results of operations. In the event that any other contributing employer withdraws from any plan which is underfunded, and such employer (or any member in its controlled group) cannot satisfy its obligations under the plan at the time of withdrawal, then we, along with the other remaining contributing employers, would be liable for our proportionate share of such plan’s unfunded vested benefits. We 15 Table of Contents have no current intention of taking any action that would subject us to any withdrawal liability and cannot assure you that no other contributing employer will take such action. In addition, if a multi-employer plan fails to satisfy the minimum funding requirements, the Internal Revenue Service, pursuant to Section 4971 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, referred to herein as the Code, will impose an excise tax of five (5%) percent on the amount of the accumulated funding deficiency. Under Section 413(c)(5) of the Code, the liability of each contributing employer, including us, will be determined in part by each employer’s respective delinquency in meeting the required employer contributions under the plan. The Code also requires contributing employers to make additional contributions in order to reduce the deficiency to zero, which may, along with the payment of the excise tax, have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Compliance With Safety and Environmental Protection and Other Governmental Requirements May Adversely Affect Our Operations. The shipping industry in general and our business and the operation of our vessels and terminals in particular are affected by extensive and changing safety, environmental protection and other international, national, state and local governmental laws and regulations. For example, our vessels, as U.S.-flagged vessels, generally must be maintained “in class” and are subject to periodic inspections by the American Bureau of Shipping or similar classification societies, and must be periodically inspected by, or on behalf of, the U.S. Coast Guard. In addition, the United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (referred to as OPA), the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation & Liability Act of 1980 (referred to as CERCLA), and certain state laws require us, as a vessel operator, to obtain certificates of financial responsibility and to adopt procedures for oil or hazardous substance spill prevention, response and clean up. In complying with these laws, we have incurred expenses and may incur future expenses for ship modifications and changes in operating procedures. Changes in enforcement policies for existing requirements and additional laws and regulations adopted in the future could limit our ability to do business or further increase the cost of our doing business. We believe our vessels are maintained in good condition in compliance with present regulatory requirements, are operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable safety/environmental laws and regulations and are insured against the usual risks for such amounts as our management deems appropriate. Our vessels’ operating certificates and licenses are renewed periodically during the required annual surveys of the vessels. However, there can be no assurance that such certificates and licenses will be renewed. Also, in the future, we may have to alter existing equipment, add new equipment to, or change operating procedures for, our vessels to comply with changes in governmental regulations, safety or other equipment standards to meet our customers’ changing needs. If any such costs are material, they could adversely affect our financial condition. We are Subject to Statutory and Regulatory Directives in the United States Addressing Homeland Security Concerns That May Increase Our Costs and Adversely Affect Our Operations. Various government agencies within the Department of Homeland Security (“DHS”), including the Transportation Security Administration, the U.S. Coast Guard, and U.S. Bureau of Customs and Border Protection, have adopted, and may adopt in the future, rules, policies or regulations or changes in the interpretation or application of existing laws, rules, policies or regulations, compliance with which could increase our costs or result in loss of revenue. The Coast Guard’s maritime security regulations, issued pursuant to the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (“MTSA”), require us to operate our vessels and facilities pursuant to both the maritime security regulations and approved security plans. Our vessels and facilities are subject to periodic security compliance verification examinations by the Coast Guard. A failure to operate in accordance with the maritime security regulations or the approved security plans may result in the 16 Table of Contents imposition of a fine or control and compliance measures, including the suspension or revocation of the security plan, thereby making the vessel or facility ineligible to operate. We are also required to audit these security plans on an annual basis and, if necessary, submit amendments to the Coast Guard for its review and approval. Failure to timely submit the necessary amendments may lead to the imposition of the fines and control and compliance measures mentioned above. Failure to meet the requirements of the maritime security regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. DHS may adopt additional security-related regulations, including new requirements for screening of cargo and our reimbursement to the agency for the cost of security services. These new security-related regulations could have an adverse impact on our ability to efficiently process cargo or could increase our costs. In particular, our customers typically need quick shipping of their cargos and rely on our on-time shipping capabilities. If these regulations disrupt or impede the timing of our shipments, we may fail to meet the needs of our customers, or may increase expenses to do so. Increased Inspection Procedures and Tighter Import and Export Controls Could Increase Costs and Disrupt Our Business. Domestic and international container shipping is subject to various security and customs inspection and related procedures, referred to herein as inspection procedures, in countries of origin and destination as well as in countries in which transshipment points are located. Inspection procedures can result in the seizure of containers or their contents, delays in the loading, offloading, transshipment or delivery of containers and the levying of customs duties, fines or other penalties against exporters or importers (and, in some cases, shipping and logistics companies such as us). Failure to comply with these procedures may result in the imposition of fines and/or the taking of control or compliance measures by the applicable governmental agency, including the denial of entry into U.S. waters. We understand that, currently, only a small proportion of all containers delivered to the United States are physically inspected by U.S., state or local authorities prior to delivery to their destinations. The U.S. government, foreign governments, international organizations, and industry associations have been considering ways to improve and expand inspection procedures. There are numerous proposals to enhance the existing inspection procedures, which if implemented would likely affect shipping and logistics companies such as us. Such changes could impose additional financial and legal obligations on us, including additional responsibility for physically inspecting and recording the contents of containers we are shipping. In addition, changes to inspection procedures could impose additional costs and obligations on our customers and may, in certain cases, render the shipment of certain types of cargo by container uneconomical or impractical. Any such changes or developments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Restrictions on Foreign Ownership of Our Vessels Could Limit Our Ability to Sell Off Any Portion of Our Business or Result in the Forfeiture of Our Vessels. The Jones Act restricts the foreign ownership interests in the entities that directly or indirectly own the vessels which we operate in our Jones Act markets. If we were to seek to sell any portion of our business that owns any of these vessels, we would have fewer potential purchasers, since some potential purchasers might be unable or unwilling to satisfy the foreign ownership restrictions described above. As a result, the sales price for that portion of our business may not attain the amount that could be obtained in an unregulated market. Furthermore, at any point Horizon Lines, LLC, our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary and principal operating subsidiary, ceases to be controlled and 75% owned by U.S. citizens, we would become ineligible to operate in our current Jones Act markets and may become subject to penalties and risk forfeiture of our vessels. 17 Table of Contents No Assurance Can Be Given That Our Insurance Costs Will Not Escalate. Our protection and indemnity insurance (“P&I”) is provided by a mutual P&I club which is a member of the International Group of P&I clubs. As a mutual club, it relies on member premiums, investment reserves and income, and reinsurance to manage liability risks on behalf of its members. Increased investment losses, underwriting losses, or reinsurance costs could cause international marine insurance clubs to increase the cost of premiums, resulting not only in higher premium costs but also higher levels of deductibles and self-insurance retentions. Our coverage under the Longshore Act for U.S. Longshore and Harbor Workers compensation is provided by Signal Mutual Indemnity Association Ltd. Signal Mutual is a non-profit organization whose members pool risks of a similar nature to achieve long-term and stable insurance protection at cost. Signal Mutual is now the largest provider of Longshore benefits in the country. This program provides for first-dollar coverage without a deductible. Catastrophic Losses and Other Liabilities Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Such Losses and Liability May Be Beyond Insurance Coverage. The operation of any oceangoing vessel carries with it an inherent risk of catastrophic maritime disaster, mechanical failure, collision, and loss of or damage to cargo. Also, in the course of the operation of our vessels, marine disasters, such as oil spills and other environmental mishaps, cargo loss or damage, and business interruption due to political or other developments, as well as maritime disasters not involving us, labor disputes, strikes and adverse weather conditions, could result in loss of revenue, liabilities or increased costs, personal injury, loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. Damage arising from such occurrences may result in lawsuits asserting large claims. Although we maintain insurance, including retentions and deductibles, at levels that we believe are consistent with industry norms against the risks described above, including loss of life, there can be no assurance that this insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages suffered by us from the occurrence of all of the risks described above or the loss of income resulting from one or more of our vessels being removed from operation. We also cannot assure you that a claim will be paid or that we will be able to obtain insurance at commercially reasonable rates in the future. Further, if we are negligent or otherwise responsible in connection with any such event, our insurance may not cover our claim. In the event that any of the claims arising from any of the foregoing possible events were assessed against us, all of our assets could be subject to attachment and other judicial process. As a result of the significant insurance losses incurred in the September 11, 2001 attack and related concern regarding terrorist attacks, global insurance markets increased premiums and reduced or restricted coverage for terrorist losses generally. Accordingly, premiums payable for terrorist coverage have increased substantially and the level of terrorist coverage has been significantly reduced. Additionally, new and stricter environmental regulations have led to higher costs for insurance covering environmental damage or pollution, and new regulations could lead to similar increases or even make this type of insurance unavailable. The reliability of our service may be adversely affected if our spare vessels reserved for relief are not deployed efficiently under extreme circumstances, which could damage our reputation and harm our operating results. We generally keep spare vessels in reserve available for relief if one of our vessels in active service suffers a maritime disaster or must be unexpectedly removed from service for repairs. However, these spare vessels may require several days of sailing before it can replace the other vessel, resulting in service disruptions and loss of revenue. If more than one of our vessels in active service suffers a maritime disaster or must be unexpectedly removed from service, we may have to redeploy vessels from our other trade routes, or lease one or more vessels from third parties. 18 Table of Contents We may suffer a material adverse effect on our business if we are unable to rapidly deploy one of our spare vessels and we fail to provide on-time scheduled service and adequate capacity to our customers. Interruption or Failure of Our Information Technology and Communications Systems Could Impair our Ability to Effectively Provide Our Shipping and Logistics Services, Especially HITS, Which Could Damage Our Reputation and Harm Our Operating Results. Our provision of our shipping and logistics services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems, especially HITS. We have experienced brief system failures in the past and may experience brief or substantial failures in the future. Any failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our service reducing our revenue and profits and damaging our brand. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning does not account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, or other unanticipated problems at our facilities at which we maintain and operate our systems could result in lengthy interruptions or delays in our shipping and logistics services, especially HITS. Our Vessels Could Be Arrested By Maritime Claimants, Which Could Result in Significant Loss of Earnings and Cash Flow. Crew members, suppliers of goods and services to a vessel, shippers of cargo, lenders and other parties may be entitled to a maritime lien against a vessel for unsatisfied debts, claims or damages. In many jurisdictions, a claimant may enforce its lien by either arresting or attaching a vessel through foreclosure proceedings. Moreover, crew members may place liens for unpaid wages that can include significant statutory penalty wages if the unpaid wages remain overdue (e.g., double wages for every day during which the unpaid wages remain overdue). The arrest or attachment of one or more of our vessels could result in a significant loss of earnings and cash flow for the period during which the arrest or attachment is continuing. In addition, international vessel arrest conventions and certain national jurisdictions allow so-called sister-ship arrests, which allow the arrest of vessels that are within the same legal ownership as the vessel which is subject to the claim or lien. Certain jurisdictions go further, permitting not only the arrest of vessels within the same legal ownership, but also any associated vessel. In nations with these laws, an association may be recognized when two vessels are owned by companies controlled by the same party. Consequently, a claim may be asserted against us or any of our vessels for the liability of one or more of the other vessels that we own. We are Susceptible to Severe Weather and Natural Disasters. Our operations are vulnerable to disruption as a result of weather and natural disasters such as bad weather at sea, hurricanes, typhoons and earthquakes. Such events will interfere with our ability to provide the on-time scheduled service our customers demand resulting in increased expenses and potential loss of business associated with such events. In addition, severe weather and natural disasters can result in interference with our terminal operations, and may cause serious damage to our vessels, loss or damage to containers, cargo and other equipment and loss of life or physical injury to our employees. Terminals in the South Pacific Ocean, particularly in Guam, and terminals on the east coast of the continental U.S. and in the Caribbean are particularly susceptible to hurricanes and typhoons. In the recent past, the terminal at our port in Guam was seriously damaged by a typhoon and our terminal in Puerto Rico was seriously damaged by a hurricane. These storms resulted in damage to cranes and other equipment and closure of these facilities. Earthquakes in Anchorage and in Guam have also damaged our terminal facilities resulting in delay in terminal operations and increased expenses. Any such damage will not be fully covered by insurance. 19 Table of Contents We may face new competitors. Other established or start-up shipping operators may enter our markets to compete with us for business. Existing non-Jones Act qualified shipping operators whose container ships sail between ports in Asia and the U.S. west coast could add Hawaii, Guam or Alaska as additional stops on their sailing routes for non-U.S. originated or destined cargo. Shipping operators could also add Puerto Rico as a new stop on sailings of their vessels between the continental U.S. and ports in Europe, the Caribbean, and Latin America for non-U.S. originated or destined cargo. Further, shipping operators could introduce U.S.-flagged vessels into service sailing between Guam and U.S. ports, including ports on the U.S. west coast or in Hawaii. On these routes to and from Guam no limits would apply as to the origin or destination of the cargo dropped off or picked up. In addition, current or new U.S. citizen shipping operators may order the building of new vessels by U.S. shipyards and may introduce these U.S.-built vessels into Jones Act qualified service on one or more of our trade routes. These potential competitors may have access to financial resources substantially greater than our own. The entry of a new competitor on any of our trade routes could result in a significant increase in available shipping capacity that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We May Not Exercise Our Purchase Options For Our Chartered Vessels. We intend to exercise our purchase options for up to three of the Jones Act vessels that we have chartered upon the expiration of their charters in January 2015. In addition, we have not determined whether we will exercise our scheduled purchase options for the five newly built U.S.-flag vessels that we have chartered. There can be no assurance that, when these options for these eight vessels become exercisable, the price at which these vessels may be purchased will be reasonable in light of the fair market value of these vessels at such time or that we will have the funds required to make these purchases. As a result, we may not exercise our options to purchase these vessels. If we do not exercise our options, we may need to renew our existing charters for these vessels or charter replacement vessels. There can be no assurance that our existing charters will be renewed, or, if renewed, that they will be renewed at favorable rates, or, if not renewed, that we will be able to charter replacement vessels at favorable rates. We May Face Significant Costs As the Vessels Currently in Our Fleet Age. We believe that each of the vessels we currently operate has an estimated useful life of approximately 45 years from the year it was built. As of the date hereof, the average age of our active vessels is approximately 22 years and the average age of our Jones Act vessels is approximately 32 years. We expect to incur increasing costs to operate and maintain the vessels in good condition as they age. Eventually, these vessels will need to be replaced. We may not be able to replace all of our existing vessels with new vessels based on uncertainties related to financing, timing and shipyard availability. We May Face Unexpected Substantial Dry-Docking Costs For Our Vessels. Our vessels are dry-docked periodically to comply with regulatory requirements and to affect maintenance and repairs, if necessary. The cost of such repairs at each dry-docking are difficult to predict with certainty and can be substantial. Our established processes have enabled us to make on average six dry-dockings per year over the last five years with a minimal impact on schedule. In addition, our vessels may have to be dry-docked in the event of accidents or other unforeseen damage. Our insurance may not cover all of these costs. Large unpredictable repair and dry-docking expenses could significantly decrease our profits. 20 Table of Contents Loss of key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our future success will depend, in significant part, upon the continued services of Charles G. Raymond, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael T. Avara, our Chief Financial Officer, John V. Keenan, our President, Horizon Lines, LLC, and Brian W. Taylor, our President, Horizon Logistics, LLC. The loss of the services of any of these executive officers could adversely affect our future operating results because of their experience and knowledge of our business and customer relationships. If key employees depart, we may have to incur significant costs to replace them and our ability to execute our business model could be impaired if we cannot replace them in a timely manner. We do not expect to maintain key person insurance on any of our executive officers. Additionally, unanticipated disruptions to our business may occur due to the Company’s recent reduction in workforce initiative. We are Subject to, and May in the Future Be Subject to, Disputes, or Legal or Other Proceedings, That Could Have a Material Adverse Effect on Us. The nature of our business exposes us to the potential for disputes, or legal or other proceedings, from time to time relating to labor and employment matters, personal injury and property damage, environmental matters and other matters, as discussed in the other risk factors disclosed in this prospectus. In addition, as a common carrier, our tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with our customers are governed by extensive and complex foreign, federal, state and local regulations which are the subject of disputes or administrative and/or judicial proceedings from time to time. These disputes, individually or collectively, could harm our business by distracting our management from the operation of our business. If these disputes develop into proceedings, these proceedings, individually or collectively, could involve significant expenditures by us or result in significant changes to our tariffs, rates, rules and practices in dealing with our customers that could have a material adverse effect on our future revenue and profitability. Our Cash Flows and Capital Resources May Be Insufficient to Make Required Payments on Our Substantial Indebtedness and Future Indebtedness. As of December 21, 2008, on a consolidated basis, we had (i) approximately $570.5 million of outstanding long-term debt (exclusive of outstanding letters of credit with an aggregate face amount of $8.3 million), (ii) approximately $203.0 million of aggregate trade payables, accrued liabilities and other balance sheet liabilities (other than the long-term debt referred to above) and (iii) a debt-to-equity ratio of approximately 5.0:1.0. Because we have substantial debt, we require significant amounts of cash to fund our debt service obligations. Our ability to generate cash to meet scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to our debt depends on our financial and operating performance which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to the following financial and business factors, some of which may be beyond our control: • operating difficulties; • increased operating costs; • increased fuel costs; • general economic conditions; • decreased demand for our services; • market cyclicality; • tariff rates; • prices for our services; • the actions of competitors; • regulatory developments; and • delays in implementing strategic projects. 21 Table of Contents If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, dispose of material assets or operations, seek to obtain additional equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Such alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In particular, in the event that we are required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service obligations, we cannot be sure as to the timing of such dispositions or the proceeds that we would realize from those dispositions. The value realized from such dispositions will depend on market conditions and the availability of buyers, and, consequently, any such disposition may not, among other things, result in sufficient cash proceeds to repay our indebtedness. Also, the senior credit facility contains covenants that may limit our ability to dispose of material assets or operations or to restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Further, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to restructure or refinance any of our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, given the uncertainty of prevailing market conditions from time to time, our high levels of indebtedness and the various debt incurrence restrictions imposed by the senior credit facility. If we are able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, the economic terms on which such indebtedness is restructured, refinanced or obtained may not be favorable to us. We may incur substantial indebtedness in the future. The terms of the senior credit facility permit us to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness under certain circumstances. As of December 21, 2008, we had approximately $121.7 million of additional borrowing availability under the revolving credit facility, subject to compliance with the financial and other covenants and the other terms set forth therein. In addition, our senior credit facility allows for additional term loan borrowing availability of up to $150.0 million if certain covenants are met. Our incurrence of additional indebtedness would intensify the risk that our future cash flow and capital resources may not be sufficient for payments of interest on and principal of our substantial indebtedness. Financial and Other Covenants Under Our Current and Future Indebtedness Could Significantly Impair Our Ability to Operate Our Business. Our senior credit facility contains covenants that, among other things, restrict the ability of us and our subsidiaries to: • dispose of assets; • incur additional indebtedness, including guarantees; • prepay other indebtedness or amend other debt instruments; • pay dividends or make investments, loans or advances; • create liens on assets; • enter into sale and lease-back transactions; • engage in mergers, acquisitions or consolidations; • change the business conducted by them; and • engage in transactions with affiliates. In addition, under the senior credit facility, we are required to comply with financial covenants, comprised of leverage and interest coverage ratio requirements. Our ability to comply with these covenants will depend on our ongoing financial and operating performance, which in turn will be subject to economic conditions and to financial, market and competitive factors, many of which are beyond our control, and will be substantially dependent on our financial and operating performance which, in turn, is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to various financial and business factors, including those discussed in the other risk factors disclosed in this Form 10-K, some of which may be beyond our control. 22 Table of Contents Under our senior credit facility we are required, subject to certain exceptions, to make mandatory prepayments of amounts under the senior credit facility with all or a portion of the net proceeds of certain asset sales and events of loss, certain debt issuances, certain equity issuances and a portion of their excess cash flow. Our circumstances at the time of any such prepayment, particularly our liquidity and ability to access funds, cannot be anticipated at this time. Any such prepayment could, therefore, have a material adverse effect on us. Mandatory prepayments are first applied to the outstanding term loans and, after all of the term loans are paid in full, then applied to reduce the loans under the revolving credit facility with corresponding reductions in revolving credit facility commitments. Our Substantial Indebtedness and Future Indebtedness Could Significantly Impair Our Operating and Financial Condition. The required payments on our substantial indebtedness and future indebtedness, as well as the restrictive covenants contained in the senior credit facility could significantly impair our operating and financial condition. For example, these required payments and restrictive covenants could: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; • make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; • expose us to interest rate fluctuations because the interest rate on the debt under our revolving credit facility is variable; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for operations and other purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt. We may incur substantial indebtedness in the future. Our incurrence of additional indebtedness would intensify the risks described above. Our Secured Credit Facility Exposes Us to the Variability of Interest Rates. The revolving credit and term loan portions of our senior credit facility bear interest at variable rates. As of December 21, 2008, we had outstanding a $118.8 million term loan and $120.0 million under the revolving credit facility, which bear interest at variable rates. The interest rates applicable to the senior credit facility vary with the prevailing corporate base rate offered by the administrative agent under the senior credit facility or with LIBOR. If these rates were to increase significantly, our ability to borrow additional funds may be reduced and the risks related to our substantial indebtedness would intensify. Each quarter point change in interest rates would result in a $0.3 million change in annual interest expense on each of the term loan and the revolving credit facility. Accordingly, a significant rise in interest rates would adversely affect our financial results. If Non-U.S. Citizens Own More Than 19.9% of Our Stock, We May Not Have the Funds or the Ability to Redeem Any Excess Shares and We Could Be Forced to Suspend Our Jones Act Operations. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions voiding transfers of shares of any class or series of our capital stock that would result in non-U.S. citizens, in the aggregate, owning in excess of 19.9% of the shares of such class or series. In the event that this transfer restriction would be 23 Table of Contents ineffective, our certificate of incorporation provides for the automatic transfer of such excess shares to a trust specified therein. These trust provisions also apply to excess shares that would result from a change in the status of a record or beneficial owner of shares of our capital stock from a U.S. citizen to a non-U.S. citizen. In the event that these trust transfer provisions would also be ineffective, our certificate of incorporation permits us to redeem such excess shares. However, we may not be able to redeem such excess shares because our operations may not have generated sufficient excess cash flow to fund such a redemption. If such a situation occurs, there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the funds necessary to effect such a redemption on terms satisfactory to us or at all. The senior credit facility permits upstream payments from our subsidiaries, subject to exceptions, to the Company to fund redemptions of excess shares. If, for any of the foregoing reasons or otherwise, we are unable to effect such a redemption when such ownership of shares by non-U.S. citizens is in excess of 25.0% of such class or series, or otherwise prevent non-U.S. citizens in the aggregate from owning shares in excess of 25.0% of any such class or series, or fail to exercise our redemption right because we are unaware that such ownership exceeds such percentage, we will likely be unable to comply with applicable maritime laws. If all of the citizenship-related safeguards in our certificate of incorporation fail at a time when ownership of shares of any class or series of our stock is in excess of 25.0% of such class or series, we will likely be required to suspend our Jones Act operations. Any such actions by governmental authorities would have a severely detrimental impact on our results of operations. We May Not Have the Necessary Funds to Pay Dividends on Our Common Stock or We May Elect Not to Pay Dividends on Our Common Stock. We require continuing, significant cash flow in order for us to make payments of regular dividends to our stockholders. However, we have no operations of our own and have derived, and will continue to derive, all of our revenues and cash flow from our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to make funds available to us. They may not have sufficient funds or assets to permit payments to us in amounts sufficient to fund future dividend payments. Also, our subsidiaries are subject to contractual restrictions (including with their secured and unsecured creditors) that may limit their ability to upstream cash indirectly or directly to us. Thus, there is a significant risk that we may not have the requisite funds to make regular dividend payments in the future. In addition, we may elect not to pay dividends as a substantial portion of our future earnings will be utilized to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and to fund the development and growth of our business. Environmental and Other Regulation All of our operations are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations implemented principally by the Environmental Protection Agency (the “EPA”), the United States Department of Transportation, the United States Coast Guard and state environmental regulatory agencies. These regulations govern the management of hazardous wastes, discharge of pollutants into the air, surface and underground waters, including rivers, harbors and the 200-mile exclusive economic zone of the United States, and the disposal of certain substances. The operation of our vessels is also subject to regulation under various international and federal laws, as interpreted and implemented by the United States Coast Guard (the “Coast Guard”), as well as certain state and local laws. Additionally, our vessels are required to meet construction and repair standards established by the American Bureau of Shipping (ABS), Det Norske Veritas (DNV) and/or the Coast Guard, and to meet operational, security and safety standards presently established by the Coast Guard. The Coast Guard further licenses our seagoing supervisory personnel and certifies our seamen. Our marine operations are further subject to regulation by various federal agencies or the successors to those agencies, including the Surface Transportation Board (the successor federal 24 Table of Contents agency to the Interstate Commerce Commission), the United States Department of Transportation Maritime Administration (“MARAD”), the Federal Maritime Commission and the Coast Guard. These regulatory authorities have broad powers over operational safety, tariff filings of freight rates, service contracts, certain mergers, contraband, environmental contamination, financial reporting and homeland, port and vessel security. Our common and contract motor carrier operations are regulated by the United States Surface Transportation Board and various state agencies. The Company’s drivers also must comply with the safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Transportation, including certain regulations for drug and alcohol testing and hours of service. The officers and unlicensed crew members employed aboard our vessels must also comply with numerous safety and fitness regulations promulgated by the Coast Guard, including certain regulations for drug testing and hours of service. The United States Oil Pollution Act of 1990 and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act In 1990, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (“OPA”) was enacted to establish an extensive regulatory and liability regime designed to protect the environment from the damage caused by oil spills. OPA is applicable to all owners and operators whose vessels trade with the United States or its territories or possessions, or whose vessels operate in the navigable waters of the United States, which include the United States territorial sea and the 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone around the United States. Additionally, under OPA, vessel owners, operators and bareboat charterers are “responsible parties” and are jointly, severally and strictly liable (unless the spill results solely from the act or omission of a third party, an act of God or an act of war) for all containment and clean-up costs and other damages arising from discharges or threatened discharges of oil from their vessels. “Damages” are defined broadly under OPA to include: • natural resources damages and the costs of assessment thereof; • damages for injury to, or economic losses resulting from the destruction of, real and personal property; • the net loss of taxes, royalties, rents, fees and profits by the United States government, and any state or political subdivision thereof; • lost profits or impairment of earning capacity due to property or natural resources damage; • the net costs of providing increased or additional public services necessitated by a spill response, such as protection from fire, safety or other hazards; and • the loss of subsistence use of natural resources. Effective July 11, 2006, OPA was amended to increase the liability limits for responsible parties for any vessel other than a tank vessel to $950 per gross ton or $800,000, whichever is greater. These limits of liability do not apply if an incident was directly caused by violation of applicable federal safety, construction or operating regulations or by a responsible party’s gross negligence or willful misconduct, or if the responsible party fails or refuses to report the incident or to cooperate and assist in connection with oil removal activities. In 1980, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (“CERCLA”) was adopted and is applicable to the discharge of hazardous substances (other than oil) whether on land or at sea. CERCLA also imposes liability similarly to OPA and provides for cleanup, removal and natural resource damage. Liability per vessel under CERCLA is limited to the greater of $300 per gross ton or $5 million, unless the incident is caused by gross negligence, willful misconduct, or a violation of certain regulations, in which case liability is unlimited. 25 Table of Contents OPA requires owners and operators of vessels to establish and maintain with the Coast Guard evidence of financial responsibility sufficient to meet their potential liabilities under the OPA. Effective October 17, 2008, the Coast Guard regulations requiring evidence of financial responsibility were amended to conform the OPA financial responsibility requirements to the July 2006 increases in liability limits. Current Coast Guard regulations require evidence of financial responsibility in the amount of $900 per gross ton for non-tank vessels, which includes the OPA limitation on liability of $600 per gross ton and the CERCLA liability limit of $300 per gross ton. It is expected that the Coast Guard will increase the amounts of financial responsibility to reflect the July 2006 increases in liability. Under the regulations, vessel owners and operators may evidence their financial responsibility by showing proof of insurance, surety bond, self-insurance or guaranty. Under OPA, an owner or operator of a fleet of vessels is required only to demonstrate evidence of financial responsibility in an amount sufficient to cover the vessels in the fleet having the greatest maximum liability under OPA. The Coast Guard’s regulations concerning certificates of financial responsibility provide, in accordance with OPA, that claimants may bring suit directly against an insurer or guarantor that furnishes certificates of financial responsibility. In the event that such insurer or guarantor is sued directly, it is prohibited from asserting any contractual defense that it may have had against the responsible party and is limited to asserting those defenses available to the responsible party and the defense that the incident was caused by the willful misconduct of the responsible party. Certain organizations, which had typically provided certificates of financial responsibility under pre-OPA laws, including the major protection and indemnity organizations, have declined to furnish evidence of insurance for vessel owners and operators if they are subject to direct actions or are required to waive insurance policy defenses. OPA specifically permits individual states to impose their own liability regimes with regard to oil pollution incidents occurring within their boundaries, and some states have enacted legislation providing for unlimited liability for oil spills. In some cases, states, which have enacted such legislation, have not yet issued implementing regulations defining vessels owners’ responsibilities under these laws. We intend to comply with all applicable state regulations in the ports where our vessels call. We maintain Certificates of Financial Responsibility as required by the Coast Guard for our vessels. The United States Clean Water Act In 1972, the United States Clean Water Act (“CWA”) prohibits the discharge of oil or hazardous substances in navigable waters and imposes strict liability in the form of penalties for any unauthorized discharges. The CWA also imposes substantial liability for the costs of removal, remediation and damages and complements the remedies available under OPA and CERCLA. The EPA historically exempted the discharge of ballast water and other substances incidental to the normal operation of vessels in the United States ports from the CWA permitting requirements. On March 31, 2005, however, a United States District Court ruled that the EPA exceeded its authority in creating an exemption for ballast water. On September 18, 2006, the court issued an order invalidating the exemption in the EPA’s regulations for all discharges incidental to the normal operation of a vessel as of September 30, 2008, and directing the EPA to develop a system for regulating all discharges from vessels by that date. Under the court’s ruling, owners and operators of vessels visiting United States ports also would be required to comply with the CWA permitting program to be developed by the EPA or face penalties. The District Court’s decision was affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit on July 23, 2008. On August 31, 2008, the District Court ordered that the date for implementation of the proposed vessel general permit for discharges incidental to normal operation be postponed until February 6, 2009. The EPA has issued regulations implementing a “Vessel General Permit” (VGP) that codifies “best management practices” for the control of twenty-eight listed, specific discharges, including ballast water, that occur normally in the operation of a vessel. We expect the VGP requirements set forth by 26 Table of Contents EPA will increase our record keeping requirements but we do not otherwise expect a material impact on our operations. Several states have specified significant, additional requirements in connection with such state mandated CWA certifications relating to the VGP rules and regulations. The discharge sampling mandate in California and the greywater discharge prohibition in New Jersey, are currently being challenged legally. We cannot predict the outcome of such legal challenges or the response of the states to such legal challenges, and, therefore, the effect of the pending VGP rulemaking on our operations cannot be predicted. As a result of these court decisions, however, our vessels ultimately will be subject to CWA permit requirements that could include ballast water treatment obligations that could increase the cost of operating in the United States. Various states have also enacted legislation restricting ballast water discharges and the introduction of non-indigenous species considered to be invasive. These and any similar restrictions enacted in the future could increase the costs of operating in the relevant waters. The National Invasive Species Act The United States National Invasive Species Act (“NISA”) was enacted in 1996 in response to growing reports of harmful organisms being released into United States waters through ballast water taken on by vessels in foreign ports. The Coast Guard adopted regulations under NISA in July 2004 that impose mandatory ballast water management practices for all vessels equipped with ballast water tanks entering United States waters. These requirements can be met by performing mid-ocean ballast exchange, by retaining ballast water on board the vessel, or by using environmentally sound alternative ballast water management methods approved by the Coast Guard. Mid-ocean ballast exchange is the primary method for compliance with the Coast Guard regulations, since holding ballast water can prevent vessels from performing cargo operations upon arrival in the United States, and alternative methods are still under development. Vessels that are unable to conduct mid-ocean ballast exchange due to voyage or safety concerns may discharge minimum amounts of ballast water, provided that they comply with recordkeeping requirements and document the reasons they could not follow the required ballast water management requirements. The Coast Guard is developing a proposal to establish ballast water discharge standards, which could set maximum acceptable discharge limits for various invasive species, and/or lead to requirements for active treatment of ballast water. The United States House of Representatives recently passed a bill that amends NISA by prohibiting the discharge of ballast water unless it has been treated with specified methods or acceptable alternatives. Similar bills have been introduced in the United States Senate, but it cannot be predicted which bill, if any, will be enacted into law. In the absence of federal standards, states have enacted legislation or regulations to address invasive species through ballast water and hull cleaning management and permitting requirements. For instance, the State of California has recently enacted legislation extending its ballast water management program to regulate the management of “hull fouling” organisms attached to vessels and adopted regulations limiting the number of organisms in ballast water discharges. Additionally, a United States District Court dismissed challenges to the State of Michigan’s ballast water management legislation mandating the use of various techniques for ballast water treatment; this decision was affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit on November 21, 2008. Other states may proceed with the enactment of similar requirements that could increase the costs of operating in state waters. The United States Clean Air Act In 1970, the United States Clean Air Act (as amended by the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977 and 1990, the “CAA”) was enacted and required the EPA to promulgate standards applicable to emissions of volatile organic compounds and other air contaminants. The CAA also requires states to draft State Implementation Plans (“SIPs”), which are designed to attain national health-based air quality standards in primarily major metropolitan and/or industrial areas. Several SIPs regulate 27 Table of Contents emissions resulting from vessel loading and unloading operations by requiring the installation of vapor control equipment. The EPA and some states, however, have each proposed more stringent regulations of air emissions from ocean-going vessels. For example, the California Air Resources Board of the State of California (the “CARB”) has petitioned the EPA to permit California clean-fuel regulations applicable to all vessels sailing within 24 miles of the California coastline whose itineraries call for them to enter any California ports, terminal facilities, or internal or estuarine waters. If California regulation is permitted by the EPA, we may be required to use low sulfur fuels, which are more costly, in our auxillary diesel engines on ships entering California ports. The state of California is also implementing regulations that will require vessels to either shut down the auxiliary engines while in port in California and use electrical power supplied at the dock or implement alternatives means to significantly reduce emissions from the vessel’s electric power generating equipment while it is in port. Generally, a vessel will run its auxiliary engines while at port in order to power lighting, ventilation, pumps, communication and other onboard equipment. The emissions from running auxiliary engines while at port may be contributors to particulate matter in the ambient air. The purpose of the regulations is to reduce the emissions from a vessel while it is in port. The cost of reducing vessel emissions while at port may be substantial if we determine that we can not use or the ports will not permit us to use electrical power supplied at the dock. Alternatively, the ports may pass the cost of supplying electrical power at the port to us, and we may incur additional costs in connection with modifying our vessels to use electrical power supplied at the dock. International Law, the MARPOL (International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973, as modified by the Protocol of 1978 relating thereto) Convention, may, in the future, require the use of low sulfur fuels world wide in both auxiliary and main propulsion diesel engines on ships. By July 1, 2010, the MARPOL Amendments are expected to require all diesel engines on ships built between 1990 and 2000 to meet a Nitrous Oxide (NOx) standard of 17.0g-NOx/kW-hr. On January 1, 2011 the NOx standard will be lowered to 14.4 g-NOx/kW-hr and on January 1, 2016 it will be further lowered to 3.4 g-NOx/kW-hr, for vessels operating in a designated Emission Control Area (ECA). In addition, the current global sulfur cap of 4.5% Sulfur will be reduced to 3.5% Sulfur in 2010 and further reduced to as low as 0.5% sulfur as early as 2020, and no later than 2025, depending upon recommendations made in connection with a MARPOL fuel availability study scheduled for 2018. Under these MARPOL Amendments, the current 1.5% maximum sulfur omission permitted in designated Sulfur Emission Control Areas (SECAs) will be reduced to 1.0% sulfur on July 1, 2010, and then further reduced to 0.1% sulfur on January 1, 2015. These sulfur limitations will be applied to all subsequently approved SECAs under the MARPOL Amendments. We expect that the EPA will submit a petition to the International Maritime Organization, in coordination with Environment Canada, to designate all coastal areas of the U.S and Canada as SECA’s as early as the spring of 2009. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Our operations occasionally generate and require the transportation, treatment and disposal of both hazardous and non-hazardous solid wastes that are subject to the requirements of the United States Resource Conservation and Recovery Act or comparable state, local or foreign requirements. In addition, from time to time we arrange for the disposal of hazardous waste or hazardous substances at offsite disposal facilities. If such materials are improperly disposed of by third parties, we may still be held liable for clean up costs under applicable laws. Endangered Species Regulation The Endangered Species Act, federal conservation regulations and comparable state laws protect species threatened with possible extinction. Protection of endangered species may include restrictions on the speed of vessels in certain ocean waters and may require us to change the routes of our vessels during particular periods. For example, in an effort to prevent the collision of vessels with the 28 Table of Contents North Atlantic right whale, federal regulations restrict the speed of vessels to ten knots or less in certain areas along the Atlantic Coast of the U.S. The reduced speed of our vessels and special routing along the Atlantic Coast of our vessels is expected to result in the use of additional fuel, which will affect our results of operations. Greenhouse Gas Regulation In February 2005, the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (the “Kyoto Protocol”) was enacted. Pursuant to the Kyoto Protocol, adopting countries are required to implement national programs to reduce emissions of certain gases, generally referred to as greenhouse gases, which are suspected of contributing to global warming. In October 2007, the California Attorney General and a coalition of environmental groups petitioned the EPA to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from ocean-going vessels under the CAA. Any passage of climate control legislation or other regulatory initiatives in the United States that restrict emissions of greenhouse gases could entail financial impacts on our operations that cannot be predicted with certainty at this time. Vessel Security Regulations Since September 11, 2001, there have been a variety of initiatives intended to enhance vessel security within the United States. On November 25, 2002, the Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002 (the “MTSA”) came into effect. To implement certain portions of the MTSA, in July 2003, the Coast Guard issued regulations requiring the implementation of certain security requirements aboard vessels operating in waters subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. Similarly, in December 2002, amendments to the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea (“SOLAS”) created a new chapter of the convention dealing specifically with maritime security. The new chapter came into effect in July 2004 and imposes various detailed security obligations on vessels and port authorities, most of which are contained in the newly created International Ship and Port Facilities Security Code (the “ISPS Code”). Among the various requirements are: • on-board installation of automatic information systems to enhance vessel-to-vessel and vessel-to-shore communications; • on-board installation of ship security alert systems; • the development of vessel and facility security plans; • the implementation of a Transportation Workers Identification Credential program; and • compliance with flag state security certification requirements. The Coast Guard regulations, intended to align with international maritime security standards, exempt non-United States vessels from MTSA vessel security measures provided such vessels have on board a valid International Ship Security Certificate that attests to the vessel’s compliance with SOLAS security requirements and the ISPS Code as ratified by the ship’s flag state. Vessels native to the United States, however, are not exempted from the security measures addressed by the MTSA, SOLAS and the ISPS Code. We have implemented the various security measures addressed by the MTSA, SOLAS and the ISPS Code. We are committed to protecting the environment. We support our commitment with programs that promote best practices in environmental stewardship. During 2008, we launched our Horizon Green initiative. Through our Horizon Green initiative, we strive to better understand and measure our impact 29 Table of Contents on the environment, and to develop programs that incorporate environmental stewardship and impact into our core operations. Within the Horizon Green initiative, we are addressing four key areas: Marine Environment To protect the marine environment, we have established several programs in addition to compliance with the MARPOL Convention (International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships) and ISM Code (International Safety Management Code) created by the International Maritime Organization. These programs include vessel management controls and audits, ballast water management, waste stream analyses, low sulfur diesel fuel usage and marine terminal pollution mitigation plans. Emissions We are focused on reducing transportation emissions, including carbon dioxide, particulates, nitrous oxides and sulfur dioxide, through improvements in vessel fuel consumption and truck efficiency combined with the use of alternative fuels and more efficient transportation alternatives, such as coastwise shipping. Sustainability We believe in a long-term, sustainable approach to logistics management which will benefit the Company, its associates, customers, shareholders and the community. Examples include reducing empty backhaul miles through logistics network optimization, reduced fossil fuel consumption and using recycled materials to build containers. Carbon Offsets Freight shipping is one of the world’s leading sources of carbon dioxide emissions that contribute to global climate change. To address this challenge together with our customers, Horizon Logistics has introduced a new carbon offset shipping program, developed by our custom delivery and special handling division. The carbon offset program offers customers a carbon-neutral shipping solution through which retailers and manufacturers can purchase environmental credits that fund carbon offset programs, such as forestation and alternative energy projects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 30 Table of Contents 