Risk Factors The following risk factors are relevant to our future results and financial success, and you should read them with care: Our Commercial Real Estate, Construction And Commercial Business Loans May Expose Us To Increased Credit Risks, And This Risk Will Increase As We Increase Our Investment In These Types Of Loans. Residential real estate loans represent a smaller proportion of our loan portfolio than the average for savings institutions in New England. As of December 31, 2007, commercial real estate, construction and commercial business loans represented 62.7% of our loan portfolio. This proportion has increased significantly since December 31, 2004, when that percentage stood at 30.9%. The increase is the result of the acquisition of Chart Bank, which had a higher proportion of commercial loans in its portfolio than did Benjamin Franklin, and of internally-generated growth in commercial credits in the 2005 — 2007 years. We intend to grow commercial real estate and commercial business loans further as a proportion of our portfolio over the next several years. Construction loans, while they are not likely to increase as a percentage of total commercial loans, may increase in absolute terms in line with the overall growth in the Bank’s loan portfolio. In general, construction loans, commercial real estate loans and commercial business loans generate higher returns, but also pose greater credit risks, than do owner-occupied residential mortgage loans. As our various commercial loan portfolios increase, the corresponding risks and potential for losses from these loans may also increase. The repayment of construction and commercial real estate loans depends on the business and financial condition of borrowers and, in the case of construction loans, on the economic viability of projects financed. A number of our borrowers have more than one construction or commercial real estate loan outstanding with us. Further, these loans are concentrated primarily in Eastern Massachusetts. Economic events and changes in government regulations, which we and our borrowers cannot control, could have an adverse impact on the cash flows generated by properties securing our construction and commercial real estate loans and on the values of the properties securing those loans. Commercial properties tend to decline in value more rapidly than residential owner-occupied properties during economic recessions. We held $224.2 million in construction and commercial real estate loans in our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2007 representing 36.7% of total loans on that date. We make both secured and some short-term unsecured commercial business loans, holding $159.2 million of these loans in our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2007, representing 26.0% of total loans on that date. Of this amount, $120.6 million represent loans secured by owner-occupied commercial real estate, and $38.6 million are either unsecured or secured, typically by equipment, leases, inventory and accounts receivable. Repayment of both secured and unsecured commercial business loans depends substantially on borrowers’ underlying business, financial condition and cash flows. Unsecured loans generally involve a higher degree of risk of loss than do secured loans because, without collateral, repayment is wholly dependent upon the success of the borrowers’ businesses. For loans not secured by real estate, collateral is more difficult to monitor, its value is harder to ascertain, it may depreciate more rapidly and it may not be as readily saleable if repossessed. Our Continuing Concentration Of Loans In Our Primary Market Area May Increase Our Risk. Our success depends primarily on the general economic conditions in the counties in which we conduct business, and in the Boston metropolitan area in general. Unlike larger banks that are more geographically diversified, we provide banking and financial services to customers primarily in Norfolk, Middlesex and Worcester Counties, Massachusetts. The local economic conditions in our market area have a significant impact on our loans, including the ability of the borrowers to repay these loans, the value of the collateral securing these loans, and our ability to originate new loans. In 2007, housing prices and the level of housing 35 Table of Contents activity overall both declined in Massachusetts. In part this is due to a softening of demand that began in 2006, and in part to the consequences of the turmoil in the sub-prime mortgage market, which has caused increased loan delinquency and foreclosure activity in Massachusetts and nationwide. Although economic activity and the level of employment generally remained stable in Massachusetts in 2007, a slowdown is forecast for the region in 2008. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by these recent events, or more generally by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control would affect these local economic conditions and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, because we have a significant amount of commercial real estate loans, decreases in tenant occupancy may also have a negative effect on the ability of many of our borrowers to make timely repayments of their loans, which would have an adverse impact on our earnings. Our Return On Equity May Be Low Compared To Other Financial Institutions. A Low Return Could Lower The Trading Price Of Our Common Stock. Net income divided by average stockholders’ equity, known as “return on equity,” is a ratio many investors use to compare the performance of a financial institution to its peers. Our return on equity may be reduced due to the expenses we will incur in pursuing our growth strategies, the costs of being a public company and added expenses associated with our employee stock ownership plan and stock-based incentive plan. The core deposit intangible asset created by the Chart Bank acquisition will continue to have a negative impact on our return on equity, and if our periodic evaluation of the goodwill created by the Chart Bank acquisition results in a determination of impairment, we would be required to reduce its carrying value through a charge to earnings. Until we can increase our net interest income and non-interest income, we expect our return on equity to be below the industry average for public thrifts, which may negatively affect the value of our common stock. Our Branch Expansion Strategy May Not Be Accretive To Earnings. In the past eighteen months, we have opened new branches in Watertown and Wellesley, Massachusetts. For these new branches, numerous factors contribute to their performance, such as a suitable location, qualified personnel and an effective marketing strategy. Additionally, it takes time for a new branch to gather significant loans and deposits to generate enough income to offset its expenses, some of which, like salaries and occupancy expense, are relatively fixed costs. There can be no assurance that our branch expansion strategy will be accretive to our earnings, or that it will be accretive to earnings within a reasonable period of time. Strong Competition Within Our Market Area May Limit Our Growth And Profitability. We face significant competition both in attracting deposits and in the origination of loans. Savings banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations and commercial banks operating in our primary market area have historically provided most of our competition for deposits. In addition, and particularly in times of high interest rates, we face additional and significant competition for funds from money-market mutual funds and issuers of corporate and government securities. Competition for the origination of real estate and other loans comes from other thrift institutions, commercial banks, insurance companies, finance companies, other institutional lenders and mortgage companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than ours. Moreover, we may face increased competition in the origination of loans if competing thrift institutions convert to stock form, because such converting thrifts would likely seek to invest their new capital into loans. Finally, credit unions do not pay federal or state income taxes and are subject to fewer regulatory constraints than savings banks and as a result, they may enjoy a competitive advantage over us. This advantage places significant competitive pressure on the prices of our loans and deposits. Our Ability to Grow May Be Limited if We Cannot Make Acquisitions. In an effort to increase our loan and deposit growth, we will continue to seek to expand our banking franchise, including through acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches if opportunities arise. Our ability to grow through selective acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches will depend on 36 Table of Contents successfully identifying, acquiring and integrating them. We compete with other financial institutions with respect to proposed acquisitions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify attractive acquisition candidates or make acquisitions on favorable terms. In addition, we cannot assure you that we can successfully integrate any acquired financial institutions or branches into our banking organization in a timely or efficient manner, that we will be successful in retaining existing customer relationships or that we can achieve anticipated operating efficiencies. We Operate In A Highly Regulated Environment And May Be Adversely Affected By Changes In Law And Regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination. See “Regulation and Supervision.” Any change in the laws or regulations applicable to us, or in banking regulators’ supervisory policies or examination procedures, whether by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, other state or federal regulators, the United States Congress or the Massachusetts legislature could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We are subject to regulations promulgated by the Massachusetts Division of Banks, as our chartering authority, and by the FDIC as the insurer of our deposits up to certain limits. We also belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and, as a member of such system, we are subject to certain limited regulations promulgated by the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board regulates and oversees Benjamin Franklin Bancorp, as a bank holding company. This regulation and supervision limits the activities in which we may engage. The purpose of regulation and supervision is primarily to protect our depositors and borrowers and, in the case of FDIC regulation, the FDIC’s insurance fund. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in the exercise of their supervisory and enforcement powers. They may, among other things, impose restrictions on the operation of a banking institution, the classification of assets by such institution and such institution’s allowance for loan losses. Regulatory and law enforcement authorities also have wide discretion and extensive enforcement powers under various consumer protection and civil rights laws, including the Truth-in-Lending Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act and Massachusetts’s deceptive acts and practices law. These laws also permit private individual and class action law suits and provide for the recovery of attorneys fees in certain instances. No assurance can be given that the foregoing regulations and supervision will not change so as to affect us adversely. Changes in Market Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our profitability, like that of most financial institutions, depends to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference, or spread, between our gross interest income on interest-earning assets, such as loans and securities, and our interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Accordingly, our results of operations and financial condition depend largely on movements in market interest rates and our ability to manage our interest-rate-sensitive assets and liabilities in response to these movements. Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Because, as a general matter, we believe our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, an increase in interest rates can be expected to result in a decrease in our interest rate spread and net interest income. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest-earning assets, including, in particular, the value of our investment securities portfolio. Generally, the value of investment securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2007, our securities portfolio totaled $168.4 million, including $156.8 million of securities available for sale. Unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale are reported as a separate component of stockholders’ equity, net of related taxes. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale therefore would have an adverse affect on our stockholders’ equity. We are also subject to reinvestment risk relating to interest rate movements. Decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their 37 Table of Contents borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are not able to reinvest funds from such prepayments at rates that are comparable to the rates on the prepaid loans or securities. On the other hand, increases in interest rates on adjustable-rate mortgage loans result in larger mortgage payments due from borrowers, which could potentially increase our level of loan delinquencies and defaults. Refer to Item 7A. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” for additional information on the Company’s exposure to changes in market interest rates. Our Stock Value May Suffer From Anti-Takeover Provisions That May Impede Potential Takeovers. Our governing statute, and our articles and by-laws, contain provisions (sometimes known as anti-takeover provisions) that may impede efforts to acquire us, or impede stock purchases in furtherance of an acquisition, even though acquisition efforts or stock purchases might otherwise have a favorable effect on the price of our common stock. Those provisions will also make it more difficult to remove our Board and management. The Massachusetts Business Corporation Law provides for staggered directors’ terms, limits the stockholders’ ability to remove directors and empowers only the directors to fill board vacancies. Even if our Board elects to opt out of these statutory provisions, our articles contain similar provisions. Our articles and by-laws also provide for, among other things, restrictions on the acquisition of more than 10.0% of our outstanding voting stock for a period of five years after completion of the conversion, and approval of certain actions, including certain business combinations, by specified percentages of our “disinterested Directors” (as defined in the articles) or by specified percentages of the shares outstanding and entitled to vote. The articles also authorize the Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock, the rights and preferences of which may be designated by the Board, without the approval of our stockholders. The articles also establish supermajority voting requirements for amendments to the articles and by-laws, limit stockholders’ ability to call special meetings of stockholders, and impose advance notice provisions on stockholders’ ability to nominate directors or to propose matters for consideration at stockholder meetings. Federal and state regulations and laws may also have anti-takeover effects. The Change in Bank Control Act and the Bank Holding Company Act, together with Federal Reserve Board regulations under those acts, require that a person obtain the consent of the Federal Reserve Board before attempting to acquire control of a bank holding company. In addition, Massachusetts laws place certain limitations on acquisitions of the stock of banking institutions and imposes restrictions on business combination transactions between publicly held Massachusetts corporations and stockholders owning 5.0% or more of the stock of those corporations. Item 1.B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 38 Table of Contents 