Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is closely tied to the casino industry and factors that negatively impact the casino industry may also negatively affect our ability to generate revenues. Factors that may negatively impact the casino industry may also negatively impact our future revenues. If casinos experience reduced patronage, our revenue will be adversely impacted because casinos will purchase fewer systems and the installed systems will generate less revenue. In some cases our systems may be taken off of the casino floor altogether. The levels of casino patronage, and therefore our revenues, are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including: ● general economic conditions; ● levels of disposable income of casino patrons; ● downturn or loss in popularity of the gaming industry in general and table and slot games in particular; ● the relative popularity of entertainment alternatives to casino gaming; ● the growth and number of legalized gaming jurisdictions; ● local conditions in key gaming markets, including seasonal and weather-related factors; ● increased transportation costs; 6 ● acts of terrorism and anti-terrorism efforts; ● changes or proposed changes to tax laws; ● increases in gaming taxes or fees; ● legal and regulatory issues affecting the development, operation and licensing of casinos; ● the availability and cost of capital to construct, expand or renovate new and existing casinos; ● the level of new casino construction and renovation schedules of existing casinos; and ● competitive conditions in the gaming industry and in particular gaming markets, including the effect of such conditions on the pricing of our games and products. These factors significantly impact the demand for our products and technologies. Our business would suffer if demand for gaming in general, or poker in particular, decreases. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from distribution of the PokerPro system and from providing related maintenance and support services. The gaming has historically been repeatedly attacked by various constituencies and communities. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change and may be affected by changes in the country’s political and social climate. To the extent these constituencies and communities can successfully change public tastes and mores, the popularity of gaming, in general, would be adversely impacted, and/or industry regulation could increase, either of which could significantly reduce demand for our products. Moreover, the market for electronic gaming systems is limited. Although we believe that there is a significant opportunity for our products, the number of venues in which our products can be placed is finite, as the number of jurisdictions in which gaming is legal is limited. We are impacted by changes in consumer spending in general, and specifically with regard to discretionary spending on gaming activities. We derive our revenues from the distribution of electronic table games. Gaming revenues and occupancy in major gaming markets have been more volatile in recent years, causing many casino operators to reevaluate their operations, reduce expenses, and in some cases to cease operations or seek bankruptcy protection. We also understand that electronics and other vendors in the Far East periodically experience volatility in demand from their customers, which could possibly impact their ability to manufacture and deliver products efficiently and at acceptable costs to us. A prolonged decline in consumer spending on gaming activities could have a significant impact on our customers and our vendors. Accordingly, such a prolonged downturn could have a significant impact on our business operations and financial condition. We have debt financing arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future, and may impair our ability to react quickly to changes in our business. Our exposure to debt financing could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position. For example, it could: ● increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; ● require us to dedicate future cash flows to the repayment of debt, reducing the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; ● limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and ● limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could materially increase the impact of these risks on our financial condition and results of operations. 7 Our ability to repay our debt and fund our operations depends on many factors beyond our control. We may raise equity capital in the future, which may significantly dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital in the future, we may seek other avenues to fund the business, including sale/leaseback arrangements, transitioning PokerPro from a capital intensive leasing strategy to a product sale strategy, or seeking to sell assets of all, or a portion of, our operations. Payments on our debt will depend on our ability to generate cash or secure additional financing in the future. This ability, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and sufficient future financing is not available to us, we may not be able to repay our debt, operate our business or fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot meet or refinance our obligations when they become due, this may require us to attempt to raise capital, sell assets, reduce expenditures or take other actions which we may be unable to successfully complete or, even if successful, could have a material adverse effect on us. If such sources of capital are not available or not available on sufficiently favorable terms, we may seek other avenues to fund the business, including sale/leaseback arrangements, transitioning from a capital intensive leasing strategy to a product sale strategy, or seeking to sell assets of all, or a portion of, our operations. If we decide to raise capital in the equity markets or take other actions, our shareholders could incur significant dilution or diminished valuations, or, if we are unable to raise capital, our ability to effectively operate our business could be impaired. In addition, if we are successful in raising capital in the equity markets to repay our indebtedness, or for any other purpose, our existing shareholders may incur significant dilution. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations which could significantly impact our ability to operate our business. Our credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank contains covenants that could adversely impact our business by limiting our ability to obtain future financing, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. The credit facility includes covenants requiring the achievement of specified financial ratios and thresholds and contains other terms and conditions qualifying the terms upon which Silicon Valley Bank is required to extend funds. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. We depend on a small number of key suppliers and customers. Changes in our relationships with these parties, or changes in the economic or regulatory environments in which they operate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenues are concentrated with a small number of customers. The loss of any of these customers or changes in our relationship with them could have a material adverse effect on our business. To manufacture our gaming products, we purchase components from independent manufacturers, many of whom are located in the Far East. An extended interruption in the supply of these products or suitable substitute inventory would disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a number of our key inventory components, we rely on a single supplier. We cannot estimate with any certainty the length of time that would be required to establish alternative supply relationships, or whether the quantity or quality of materials that could be so obtained would be sufficient. Furthermore, we may incur additional costs in sourcing materials from alternative producers. The disruption of our inventory supply, even in the short-term, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our business is conducted with customers and suppliers located outside of the United States. Currency, economic, regulatory, political and other risks associated with our international operations could adversely affect our operating results. Our revenues from international customers and our inventory costs from international suppliers are exposed to the potentially adverse effects of currency exchange rates, local economic conditions, political instability and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. To the extent that our revenues and purchases from international business partners increase in the future, our exposure to changes in foreign economic conditions and currency fluctuations will increase. Our dependence on foreign customers and suppliers means, in part, that we may be affected by changes in the relative value of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies. Changes in the applicable currency exchange rates might negatively affect the profitability and business prospects of our customers and vendors. This, in turn, might cause such vendors to demand higher prices, delay shipments, or discontinue selling to us. This also might cause such customers to demand lower prices, delay or discontinue purchases of our products or demand other changes to the terms of our relationships. These situations could in turn ultimately reduce our revenues or increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Changes in gaming regulations, or interpretation of gaming regulations, by governmental entities could have a significant negative impact on our business operations and financial condition. On September 23, 2011, SEGOB, the governmental body that issues permits and regulates gaming activities in Mexico, a market from which a significant portion of our revenue was derived in 2011, issued an information bulletin to casino operators in Mexico notifying them that all card and roulette games, whether live or electronic, would no longer be permitted. As a result, we removed all of our electronic gaming tables from the gaming floors in Mexico on that date. It is our understanding that SEGOB and other Mexican governmental agencies conducted reviews and evaluations of individual permit holders during the time of the moratorium on electronic card and roulette games. We believe that these actions represent the Mexican government’s effort to strengthen the regulatory environment and increase enforcement of the regulations, which are positive long term developments for the electronic gaming market in Mexico. As of December 2012, SEGOB began issuing notifications to certain individual permit holders allowing them to return electronic card and roulette game to their operations. As a result, we began re-installing our electronic gaming tables with approved permit holders in December 2012. We have a limited operating history and a history of losses. We may be unable to generate sufficient net revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability. We have experienced net losses for substantially all quarterly and annual periods since our inception in August 2003 and we expect to continue to experience losses and cash flow deficits for the foreseeable future. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock and require us to raise additional capital, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our success depends on achieving and maintaining acceptance by casinos and players worldwide. Our success depends on continued market acceptance of our gaming products among casinos and players. Casinos and players may not prefer to use our gaming products for a number of reasons, including preference for live dealers, mistrust of technology and perceived lack of reliability. In 2011 we launched a new system, ProCore, expanding into house-banked games which have different attributes than our existing PokerPro system. The launch of a new product may increase financial pressures and the new product may not be accepted by players or operators, or may not generate sufficient revenue to cover costs. If we fail to successfully manage our new product development, or if we fail to anticipate the issues associated with such development and expansion, our business may suffer. The success of our new product introductions depends on a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate and manage a variety of issues such as: operator and player acceptance, effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, and quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. Our business may suffer and we may encounter financial pressure and increased costs if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage these issues associated with the expansion of our product line. If we fail to obtain or maintain gaming licenses and regulatory approvals, we may be unable to license or sell our gaming products. The manufacture and distribution of gaming machines is subject to extensive federal, state, local and tribal regulation. Most jurisdictions require licenses, permits and other forms of approval for gaming devices. Most, if not all, jurisdictions also require licenses, permits and documentation of suitability, including evidence of financial stability, for the manufacturers and distributors of such gaming devices and for their officers, directors, major shareholders and key personnel. Our failure to obtain regulatory approval in any jurisdiction will prevent us from distributing our products and generating gaming revenue in that jurisdiction. Any registrations, licenses, approvals or findings of suitability that we currently have or may obtain in the future may be revoked, suspended or conditioned at any time. The revocation or denial of a license in a particular jurisdiction will prevent us from distributing our gaming products in that jurisdiction, and could adversely affect our ability to obtain and/or maintain licenses in other jurisdictions. Gaming authorities in various jurisdictions may require that some or all of our executive officers, key employees, directors and significant shareholders meet their suitability standards. The inability of an executive officer, key employee, director or significant shareholder to meet these standards may adversely affect the sale or licensing of our gaming products in that jurisdiction. 9 We are subject to the authority of various government agencies that regulate the gaming industry. The regulatory authorities may investigate some or all of our executive officers, key employees, directors and significant shareholders to determine whether they are unsuitable to serve or have an ownership interest in us. If a gaming authority in any jurisdiction finds that any of our executive officers, key employees, directors or shareholders is unsuitable, it may deny us the permits or licenses that we require to operate in their jurisdiction. A finding of suitability is generally determined based upon numerous facts and circumstances surrounding the entity or individual in question, and many gaming authorities have broad discretion in determining whether a particular entity or individual is suitable. We are unaware of circumstances that would categorically prevent a gaming authority from finding any of our officers, key employees, directors or significant shareholders suitable. If any executive officer, key employee, director or significant shareholder that is required to meet the suitability standards of a particular jurisdiction fails to do so, we would be prevented from leasing, licensing or selling our gaming products in that jurisdiction as long as the individual or entity in question remained an officer, key employee, director or a significant shareholder. Such an occurrence would likely delay introduction of our gaming products into such jurisdiction or prevent us from introducing our gaming products in such jurisdiction altogether. Depending on how material such a jurisdiction is to our plan of operations, failure to obtain such findings of suitability could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, a finding that one of our executive officers, certain key employees, directors or significant shareholders is not suitable in any jurisdiction may hinder our ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions. Conversely, however, a finding of suitability by one or more gaming authorities does not ensure that similar suitability determinations will be obtained from any other gaming authorities. Although we have the ability to terminate the employment of an executive officer or key employee in the event that such executive officer or key employee fails to meet the requisite suitability standards, such termination would disrupt the management of our company, may trigger severance provisions under certain employment agreements and would likely have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the removal of a director under the provisions of our Restated Bylaws requires action on the part of our shareholders at a shareholders’ meeting. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that we may redeem at fair market value any or all shares of our capital stock held by any person or entity whose status as a shareholder, in the opinion of our Board, jeopardizes the approval, continued existence, or renewal of any federal, state, local or tribal license we hold. However, we may not have the funds available for a redemption under such circumstances, especially if the shareholder in question holds a significant amount of our common stock. We have not determined what action we would take in such an event. We will also be prevented from effecting such a redemption if it would violate North Carolina law. In addition, not all of our Board members or officers have been investigated by all of the jurisdictions where we operate. If those jurisdictions decide to require new investigations of any Board members or officers, we could incur significant costs or elect to withdraw from certain jurisdictions to avoid incremental licensing costs. If our products are found to be in violation of the Johnson Act, the Department of Justice may institute criminal and/or civil proceedings against us. The Johnson Act generally makes it unlawful for a person to manufacture, deliver, or receive gaming machines, gaming machine-type devices, and components across state lines or to operate gaming machines unless that person has first registered with the U.S. Department of Justice. We are registered with the Department of Justice. In addition, the Johnson Act imposes various record keeping, annual registration, equipment registration, and equipment identification requirements. Violation of the Revised Johnson Act may result in seizure and forfeiture of the equipment as well as other penalties. Any change in law or regulation, or an unfavorable interpretation of any law or regulation, could adversely impact our ability to earn revenue or could require us to substantially modify our products or operations at significant expense. We could face substantial competition, which could reduce our market share and negatively impact our net revenue. There are a number of companies that manufacture and distribute automated gaming machines. These companies may have greater financial and other resources than we have. The primary barriers to entry are the establishment of relationships with the owners and operators of casinos and card clubs, the receipt of necessary regulatory approvals and the development of the technology necessary to create an automated poker table. It is likely that our potential competitors could include manufacturers of gaming devices that have already established such relationships and that have received some, if not all, of the regulatory approvals that would be required to market and sell automated poker tables in our target markets. Therefore, the barriers to entry discussed above may not pose a significant obstacle for such manufacturers if they sought to compete with us. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technology, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our net revenue and increase our costs. Our long-term success will depend to some degree on our ability to protect the proprietary technology that we have developed or may develop or acquire in the future. Patent applications can take many years to issue and we can provide no assurance that any of these patents will be issued. If we are denied any or all of these patents, we may not be able to successfully prevent our competitors from imitating the PokerPro system or using some or all of the processes that are the subject of such patent applications. Such imitation may lead to increased competition within the finite market for the PokerPro system. Even if our pending patents are issued, our intellectual property rights may not be sufficiently comprehensive to prevent our competitors from developing similar competitive products and technologies. Although we may aggressively pursue anyone whom we reasonably believe is infringing upon our intellectual property rights, initiating and maintaining suits against third parties that may infringe upon our intellectual property rights will require substantial financial resources. We may not have the financial resources to bring such suits and if we do bring such suits, we may not prevail. Regardless of our success in any such actions, we could incur significant expenses in connection with such suits. 10 Third party claims of infringement against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products and require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties. We are susceptible to intellectual property lawsuits that could cause us to incur substantial costs, pay substantial damages or prohibit us from distributing our products. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which later may result in issued patents that our products may infringe. If any of our products infringe a valid patent, we could be prevented from distributing that product unless and until we can obtain a license or redesign it to avoid infringement. A license may not be available or may require us to pay substantial royalties. We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign the product to avoid any infringement. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate, and we may not have the financial and human resources to defend ourselves against any infringement suits that may be brought against us. Defects in, and fraudulent manipulation of, our products could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, burden our engineering and marketing resources, involve us in litigation and adversely affect our gaming licenses. Our success will depend on our ability to avoid, detect and correct software and hardware defects and prevent fraudulent manipulation of our products. Our electronic gaming products are subject to rigorous internal testing, and additional testing by regulators in certain gaming jurisdictions. We may not be able to maintain products that are free from defects or manipulation and that continue to satisfy these tests. Although we have taken steps to prevent defects, our products could suffer such defects and our products could be subject to manipulation after they have been widely distributed. Although we do not believe it is likely, it is possible that an individual could breach the security systems of a casino or card club, gain access to the server and fraudulently manipulate its operations. The occurrence of such fraudulent manipulation or of defects or malfunctions could result in financial losses for our customers and the subsequent termination of agreements, cancellation of orders, product returns and diversion of our resources. Even if our customers do not suffer financial losses, customers may replace our products if they do not perform according to expectations. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of sales and, in the case of gaming products, loss of regulatory approvals. In addition, the occurrence of defects or fraudulent manipulation may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other disciplinary action by regulatory authorities that could include suspension or revocation of our regulatory approvals. The use of our electronic table games could result in product liability claims that could be expensive and that could damage our reputation and harm our business. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims. Subject to contractual limitations, we will face financial exposure to product liability claims if our products fail to work properly and cause monetary damage to either players or casinos and card clubs. In addition, defects in the design or manufacture of our products might require us to recall those products. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of policies available to us may not be adequate to cover future claims. If a successful claim brought against us is in excess or outside of our insurance coverage, we may be forced to divert resources from the development of new products, the pursuit of regulatory approvals and other working capital needs in order to satisfy such claims. The loss of key personnel or the inability of replacements to quickly and successfully perform in their new roles could adversely affect our business. All of our existing personnel, including our executive officers, are employed on an “at-will” basis. If we lose or terminate the services of one or more of our current executives or key employees or if one or more of our current or former executives or key employees joins a competitor or otherwise competes with us, it could impair our business and our ability to successfully implement our business plan. Additionally, if we are unable to timely hire qualified replacements for our executive and other key positions, our ability to execute our business plan would be harmed. Even if we can timely hire qualified replacements, we would expect to experience operational disruptions and inefficiencies during any transition. 11 If we fail to manage our growth, our business and operating results could be harmed. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our ability to develop and market systems and products could suffer, which could negatively affect our operating results. Our management believes that in order to be successful we must appropriately manage the size of our business. This may mean reducing costs and overhead in certain economic periods, and selectively growing in periods of economic expansion. For example, starting in the fourth quarter of 2011 and continuing throughout most of 2012, we reduced our operating expenses and significantly reduced the number of employees, placing significant demands on our operational and financial infrastructure in response to adverse regulatory developments in Mexico. In addition, we will be required to implement operational, financial and management information procedures and controls that are efficient and appropriate for the size and scope of our operations. The management skills and systems currently in place may not be adequate and we may not be able to manage any significant reductions or growth effectively. Our success will depend on the reliability and performance of third-party distributors, manufacturers and suppliers. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of third-party suppliers for components. Certain of these competing companies have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and thus we may be at a competitive disadvantage in seeking to procure production capacity. Our inability to contract with third-party manufacturers and suppliers to provide a sufficient supply of our products on acceptable terms and on a timely basis could negatively impact our relationships with existing customers and cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities with potential customers. We also rely on distributors to market and distribute our products, and we rely on casino operators to operate our electronic gaming equipment. If our operators or distributors are unsuccessful, we may miss revenue-generating opportunities that might have been recognized. Our failure to obtain any necessary additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our business. In order to grow our business, we may need to seek additional equity or debt financing. We may not be able to obtain such additional equity or debt financing when we need it or at all. Even if such financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are favorable to us or in sufficient amounts to satisfy our requirements. If we require, but are unable to obtain, sufficient additional financing in the future we may be unable to further protect our intellectual property sufficiently, meet customer demand or withstand adverse operating results. More importantly, if we are unable to raise additional capital when needed, our continued operations may have to be scaled down or even terminated and our ability to generate revenues would be negatively affected. Enforcement of remedies or contracts against Native American tribes could be difficult. Contracts with Native American tribes are subject to sovereign immunity and tribal jurisdiction. If a dispute arises with respect to any of those agreements, it could be difficult for us to protect our rights. Native American tribes generally enjoy sovereign immunity from suit similar to that enjoyed by individual states and the United States. In order to sue a Native American tribe (or an agency or instrumentality of a Native American tribe), the tribe must have effectively waived its sovereign immunity with respect to the matter in dispute. Moreover, even if a Native American tribe were to waive sovereign immunity, such waiver may not be valid and in the absence of an effective waiver of sovereign immunity by a Native American tribe, we could be precluded from judicially enforcing any rights or remedies against that tribe. Change in business strategies could adversely impact market success or financial performance. We recently changed our strategic focus from traditional North American poker markets to international markets. Our existing systems, PokerPro and ProCore, may not be successful in those markets and operating in foreign countries carries additional operational, regulatory and currency risk than traditional U.S. markets. If we are unsuccessful in those markets, or incur significant additional expenses to operate in those markets, our financial results could be negatively affected. The concentration of our common stock ownership by our founders will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our Board members and corporate officers combined own approximately 40.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and therefore have significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that some of our shareholders do not view as beneficial. In addition, such concentrated control could discourage others from initiating changes of control. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. 12 Our Board’s ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock and any anti-takeover provisions we adopt may depress the value of our common stock. Our authorized capital includes 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Our Board has the power to issue any or all of the shares of such preferred stock, including the authority to establish one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, without seeking shareholder approval, subject to certain limitations on this power under the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. We may, in the future, consider adopting certain other anti-takeover measures. The authority of our Board to issue “blank check” preferred stock and any future anti-takeover measures we may adopt may in certain circumstances delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of our company not approved by our Board. As a result, our shareholders may lose opportunities to dispose of their shares at favorable prices generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal and the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our shareholders may also be affected. There are certain limitations on ownership of five percent or more of our common stock and we will have the right to redeem your shares of common stock if your ownership jeopardizes any regulatory certifications, licenses or approvals we hold. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that no person or entity may become the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock unless such person or entity agrees to provide personal background and financial information to, consent to a background investigation by and respond to questions from the applicable gaming authorities in any jurisdiction in which we do business or desire to do business. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation also provides that we may redeem any or all shares of common stock held by any person or entity whose status as a shareholder, in the opinion of our Board, jeopardizes the approval, continued existence or renewal of any regulatory approval we hold. The amount that we will pay for such redeemed shares will equal the highest closing price of our common stock, as reported on the NASDAQ Capital Market or other exchange or quotation service on which our common stock is then listed or quoted, during the 30 days immediately preceding the date on which notice of redemption is given. This provision may force you to sell your shares of common stock before you would choose to do so and may cause you to realize a loss on your investment. Our common stock price has been volatile. Fluctuations in our stock price could impair our ability to raise capital and make an investment in our securities undesirable. Historically, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. We believe factors such as the market’s acceptance of our products and the performance of our business relative to market expectations, as well as general volatility in the securities markets, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations, resulting in changes in the market prices of the stock of many companies, which may not have been directly related to the operating performance of those companies. Fluctuations in our stock price could impair our ability to raise capital and make an investment in our securities undesirable. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the closing price of our common stock as quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market ranged from a low of $0.61 to a high of $1.31. Our shares of common stock are at risk of being delisted by NASDAQ. On July 11, 2012, we received a notification letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market (the “Notice”) advising that for the 30 consecutive business days preceding the date of the Notice (from May 29, 2012 to July 10, 2012), the closing bid price of our common stock had fallen below the $1.00 per share minimum price required for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market pursuant to NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 5550(a)(2) (the “Minimum Bid Price Rule”). The Notice also stated that we had 180 calendar days, or until January 7, 2013 (the “Grace Period”), to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock must be at least $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days prior to the end of the Grace Period. As of January 7, 2013, our common stock had achieved a closing bid price of $1.00 or more for 10 consecutive business days as required by NASDAQ. On that date, we received written notification from the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Department that we had regained compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement of $1.00 per share for continued listing of its common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market, as set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule Section 5550(a)(2). Although we regained compliance as of January 7, 2013, we cannot assure you that we will continue to comply with the Minimum Bid Price Rule in the future, or that we will be able to comply with any other continued listing requirements in the future. If we were unable to maintain compliance with the NASDAQ continued listing requirements in the future, our common stock could be delisted and then be quoted on an inter-dealer electronic quotation system such as the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board or the OTCQX or OTCQB markets operated by The OTC Markets Group, Inc., which could adversely impact an investor’s ability to sell his, her or its shares of Common Stock in a timely and efficient manner. If our Common Stock is delisted from NASDAQ, you may have difficulty selling shares of our Common Stock. If our stock is delisted, you may find it difficult to dispose of or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of your shares. In addition, securities not listed on an exchange may be subject to the “penny stock” rules, which may further limit its liquidity. The “penny stock” rules apply to any security that is not listed on an exchange and that trades below $5.00 per share. Broker-dealers who recommend “penny stocks” to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must satisfy special sales practice requirements. The broker-dealer must make an individualized written suitability determination for the purchaser, considering such purchaser’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives, with respect to “penny stock” transactions and receive the purchaser’s written consent prior to the transaction. Our common stock may be considered a “penny stock” if it trades below $5.00 per share and we do not meet certain net asset or revenue thresholds. The “penny stock” rules severely limit the liquidity of securities in the secondary market, and many brokers choose not to participate in “penny stock” transactions. As a result, there is generally less trading in “penny stocks.” Accordingly, you may not always be able to resell shares of our common stock publicly at the time and prices that you feel are fair or appropriate. In addition, if we are subject to the “penny stock” rules it may be more difficult for us to raise additional capital. 13 We may be subject to claims for rescission or damages in connection with certain sales of shares of our common stock in the open market. On November 10, 2010, the SEC declared effective a registration that we had filed to cover the resale of shares of our common stock issued and sold (or to be issued and sold) pursuant to a certain Purchase Agreement that we had entered into in June 2010. On March 25, 2011 we filed a prospectus supplement to the prospectus included in that registration statement that included our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (the “2010 Annual Report”). The 2010 Annual Report, including our audited financial statements as at and for the year ended December 31, 2010, and the notes thereto, were physically attached and incorporated into the prospectus supplement. At the time, we believed that the filing of this prospectus supplement fulfilled our obligation to update the registration with current financial information pursuant to Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”). However, we have since been advised that the proper manner for updating a registration statement is to file a post-effective amendment. As a result, 93,175 shares sold pursuant to that prospectus in open market transactions from December 30, 2010 through January 23, 2011 violated Section 5 of the Securities Act, and the purchasers of those shares may have rescission rights (if they still own the shares) or claims for damages (if they no longer own the shares.) Accordingly, we reduced shareholders’ equity by $71,183, the total amount that we would have to refund if all the purchasers of those shares exercised their rescission right. In addition, we also may have indemnification obligations to the selling shareholder under that prospectus We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 