Item 1A. Risk Factors. We have a limited operating history on which to evaluate our business. We are a company that has only recently begun to receive operating revenue and our management has limited experience in our market. Our business model is unproven and the lack of meaningful historical financial data makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects. To the extent that we are able to implement our business plan, our business will be subject to all of the problems that typically affect a business with a limited operating history, such as unanticipated expenses, capital shortfalls, delays in program development and possible cost overruns. In addition, our only product, the PokerPro system, is an innovative product that has not yet been introduced to the market on a wide scale. Although we have completed development of the initial version of the PokerPro system, we are still in the process of developing and testing the software that will allow additional poker games to be played on the PokerPro system and enhancing the PokerPro system’s player tracking and accounting system. We have minimal operating revenue to date and a history of losses. We may be unable to generate sufficient net revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability. We have experienced operating losses for each quarterly and annual period since our inception in August 2003. We experienced net losses of $9,145,718 for the year ended December 31, 2006 and $3,700,544 for the year ended December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $13,837,074. To implement our business plan and generate revenue from other sources, we must obtain necessary regulatory approvals in many additional jurisdictions. The timing of our revenue generation will be driven in part by our receipt of such approvals in additional jurisdictions and entry into definitive agreements with customers in those jurisdictions. We anticipate that we will incur increased expenses, losses and cash flow deficits as we seek regulatory approval for our PokerPro system and market it in various jurisdictions. We may not receive further regulatory approvals. For the reasons discussed above and elsewhere in this report, it is possible that we may not generate significant revenues or profits in the foreseeable future or at all. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock and may require us to raise additional capital, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. 11 Our success depends on the PokerPro system achieving and maintaining widespread acceptance by casinos and poker players. Our success will depend to a large extent on broad market acceptance of the PokerPro system among casinos and poker players. Even if we demonstrate the effectiveness of the PokerPro system and our business model, casinos and poker players may still not use the PokerPro system for a number of other reasons, including preference for live dealers, mistrust of technology and perceived lack of reliability. We believe that the acceptance of the PokerPro system by casinos and poker players will depend on the following factors: · our ability to demonstrate the PokerPro system’s economic and other benefits to casinos; · players becoming comfortable with using the PokerPro system; and · the reliability of the hardware and software comprising the PokerPro system. Initially, we intend to enter into month-to-month agreements with our customers under which we will license the software associated with the PokerPro system. If and when market acceptance of the PokerPro system has been established, we intend to negotiate long-term agreements with our customers and may sell components to customers rather than license them. However, if the PokerPro system fails to achieve market acceptance quickly, our customers may not renew such agreements, which would reduce our net revenue and impede our efforts to market the PokerPro system. If we fail to obtain or maintain gaming licenses and regulatory approvals, we will be unable to operate our business and license or sell our products. The manufacture and distribution of gaming machines is subject to extensive federal, state, local and tribal regulation. Some jurisdictions require licenses, permits and other forms of approval for gaming devices. Most, if not all, jurisdictions also require licenses, permits and documentation of suitability, including evidence of financial stability, for the manufacturers and distributors of such gaming devices and for their officers, directors, major shareholders and key personnel. Our failure to obtain regulatory approval in any jurisdiction will prevent us from distributing our product and generating revenue in that jurisdiction. Obtaining requisite approvals is a time-consuming and costly process and cannot be assured. Although a manufacturer of gaming devices may pursue entity regulatory approval with regulators of tribal casinos at the same time that it pursues regulatory approval for its gaming devices, states that license commercial casinos, such as Nevada, require that a manufacturer obtain entity regulatory approval before seeking approval for its gaming devices. In addition, because the PokerPro system is an innovative product, we expect that some regulatory authorities will be uncertain as to how to classify it. We expect that this uncertainty will result in additional time and expense associated with obtaining necessary regulatory approvals. Even after incurring significant time and expense seeking such regulatory approvals, we may not be able to obtain them. We have received approval to conduct business as a company in California, Michigan, Arkansas, British Columbia, Mississippi, and various tribal gaming jurisdictions. We have also submitted applications in a number of major jurisdictions including Nevada, New Jersey, and Louisiana. Our current registrations and any other registrations, licenses, approvals or findings of suitability that we may obtain may be revoked, suspended or conditioned. The revocation or denial of a license in a particular jurisdiction means that we cannot distribute the PokerPro system in that jurisdiction, and could adversely affect our ability to obtain or maintain licenses in other jurisdictions. 12 Gaming devices are regulated at the federal level by the Johnson Act. We believe the Johnson Act does not apply to the use of the PokerPro system by tribal casinos because several court decisions have held that electronic aids to permitted Class II gaming devices under the IGRA are not prohibited by the Johnson Act. However, there is no guarantee that our belief is correct. We currently manufacture and offer electronic poker tables that we consider to be outside the scope of the Johnson Act. However, we have filed under the Johnson Act and will maintain the required documentation under the Johnson Act to attempt to avoid any possible rulings prohibiting the installation of its products. These court decisions have focused on the use by tribal casinos of electronic aids to bingo. We are not aware of any court or regulatory body that has considered how the Johnson Act applies to the PokerPro system or any other form of electronic poker table. The Department of Justice, the primary law enforcement entity responsible for enforcing the Johnson Act, has traditionally taken a broad view as to what constitutes a gambling device prohibited by the Johnson Act. It is possible that the Department of Justice may institute criminal and civil proceedings against us and that a court may rule that the Johnson Act prohibits the use of the PokerPro system by tribal casinos unless the tribe and state have entered into an appropriate tribal-state compact. Any such proceedings could interfere with our ability to obtain regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions. If we fail to obtain a necessary registration, license, approval or finding of suitability in a given jurisdiction, we would likely be prohibited from distributing our PokerPro system in that jurisdiction. In addition, some jurisdictions require license holders to obtain government approval before engaging in some transactions, such as business combinations, reorganizations, stock offerings and repurchases. We may not be able to obtain all necessary registrations, licenses, permits, approvals or findings of suitability in a timely manner, or at all. Our failure to obtain in a timely manner necessary regulatory approvals in jurisdictions that are material to us, whether individually or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on our net revenue and delay or prevent market acceptance of the PokerPro system. Gaming authorities in multiple jurisdictions have determined that certain of our executive officers, key employees, directors and significant shareholders are suitable. The inability of an executive officer, key employee, director or significant shareholder to obtain a determination of suitability in a jurisdiction may adversely affect the introduction of PokerPro in that jurisdiction. Gaming authorities in some jurisdictions may investigate any individual who has a material relationship with us and any of our shareholders to determine whether the individual or shareholder is suitable to those gaming authorities. Certain of our executive officers, key employees, directors and significant shareholders have been found suitable in multiple jurisdictions by various gaming authorities. If a gaming authority in any jurisdiction fails to find any of our executive officers, key employees, directors or significant shareholders suitable, we may be prohibited from leasing, licensing or selling the PokerPro system in that jurisdiction. A finding of suitability is generally determined based upon numerous facts and circumstances surrounding the entity or individual in question and many gaming authorities have broad discretion in determining whether a particular entity or individual is suitable. We are unaware of circumstances that would categorically prevent a gaming authority from finding any of our officers, key employees, directors or significant shareholders suitable. Gehrig H. “Lou” White, our Chief Executive Officer, a director and beneficial owner of approximately 24% of our common stock, intends to disclose in applications for the determination of suitability to be filed with gaming authorities that the IRS has recently completed an examination of his 2000 and 2001 federal individual income tax returns. The IRS previously issued an examination report showing a proposed income tax deficiency for Mr. White’s 2000 federal income tax return of $410,215 (plus additional interest and penalties attributable to that underpayment of tax) based on a disallowance of certain deductions for charitable contributions that Mr. White made to a foundation he established and mortgage interest that Mr. White paid to Legacy Capital, LLC, an affiliate of Merrill Scott. Merrill Scott is an investment advisor that was placed under receivership in 2002 by the SEC for violations of a variety of federal securities laws in connection with fraud and misappropriations of clients funds by the firm through a scheme in which it obtained funds from its clients seeking above-market returns and other benefits. Mr. White is currently appealing the IRS’s proposed income tax deficiency. The IRS examination of Mr. White’s 2001 federal tax return resulted in the issuance of a notice of deficiency for additional income tax in the amount of $75,445 (plus additional interest and penalties attributable to that underpayment of tax). In his original 2001 federal tax return, Mr. White claimed deductions relating to a partnership investment he made after receiving advice from a law firm. The law firm subsequently informed Mr. White that the IRS had challenged the tax treatment of the investment structure and that he should file an amended return. Mr. White then filed an amended federal income tax return for 2001 eliminating the deductions relating to the partnership investment. He also paid the federal income taxes resulting from the elimination of such deductions. The IRS notice of deficiency assessed additional income taxes as the result of disallowing deductions for tax advice in connection with the partnership investment transaction and an accuracy penalty in connection with the losses claimed with respect to that investment. These amounts have been paid which completes the audit process for Mr. White’s 2001 return. Due to the broad discretionary powers of gaming authorities, it is unknown what effect the IRS examinations of Mr. White’s federal income tax returns may have on Mr. White’s applications for a determination of suitability. 13 If any of our executive officers, certain key employees, directors or significant shareholders is not found suitable in a jurisdiction requiring a finding of suitability, we would be prevented from leasing, licensing or selling the PokerPro system in that jurisdiction as long as the individual or entity in question remained an officer, key employee, director or a significant shareholder. Such an occurrence would likely delay our introducing the PokerPro system into such jurisdiction or prevent us from introducing the system in such jurisdictions altogether. Depending on how material such jurisdiction is to our plan of operations, failure to obtain such findings of suitability could have a material adverse effect on our result of operations. In addition, a finding that one of our executive officers, certain key employees, directors or significant shareholders is not suitable in any jurisdiction may hinder our ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions. Conversely, however, a finding of suitability by one or more gaming authorities does not ensure that similar suitability determinations will be obtained from any other gaming authorities. Although we have the ability to terminate the employment of an executive officer or key employee in the event that such executive officer or key employee fails to be found suitable, such termination would disrupt the management of our company, may trigger severance provisions under certain employment agreements and would likely have an adverse effect on our business and the results of our operations. In addition, the removal of a director under the provisions of our Amended and Restated Bylaws requires action on the part of our shareholders at a special shareholders’ meeting. Our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that we may redeem at fair market value any or all shares of our capital stock held by any person or entity whose status as a shareholder, in the opinion of our Board of Directors, jeopardizes the approval, continued existence, or renewal of any federal, state, local or tribal license we hold. However, we may not have the funds available for such a redemption, especially if the shareholder in question holds a significant amount of our common stock. We have not determined what action we would take in such event. We will also be prevented from effecting such a redemption if it would violate North Carolina law. Because there are few significant barriers to entry to the market for our products, we could face substantial competition, which could reduce our market share and negatively impact our net revenue. There are a number of companies that offer poker-related entertainment or manufacture and distribute automated gaming machines. Most of these companies have greater financial resources than we have. Although we are unaware of any competitors offering automated poker tables such as ours, the costs of entry into the markets for competitive products are low, and there are few significant barriers to entry. The primary barriers to entry, some of which we are still in the process of overcoming, are the establishment of relationships with the owners and operators of casinos and card clubs, the receipt of necessary regulatory approvals and the development of the technology necessary to create an automated poker table. However, we anticipate that our potential competitors will include manufacturers of gaming devices that have already established such relationships and that have received some, if not all, of the regulatory approvals that would be required to market and sell automated poker tables in our target markets. In addition, most of these companies have greater financial resources than we have. Therefore, we anticipate that the barriers to entry discussed above would not pose a significant obstacle for such manufacturers if they sought to compete with us. 14 Due to the limited barriers to entry, we believe that the early establishment of market share is a key factor in our plan of operations, especially given the finite market for the PokerPro system. If we are unable to obtain significant early market presence or we lose market share to our competitors, it may cause us to reduce the price at which we license or sell the PokerPro system, which would materially affect our net revenue. There are many companies that could introduce directly competitive products in the short term that also have established industry relationships, the potential to develop technology quickly and greater resources than we have. We compete in a single industry, and our business would suffer if demand for gaming in general, or poker in particular, decreases. We expect to derive substantially all of our revenues from the leasing, licensing, and sale of the PokerPro system and from providing related maintenance and support services. Although the popularity of poker in particular and gaming in general has recently been growing in the United States and abroad, gaming has historically experienced backlash from various constituencies and communities. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change and may be affected by changes in the country’s political and social climate. A change in public tastes or a backlash among certain constituencies or in certain communities could result in reduced popularity of poker or increased regulation of the gaming industry, either of which could significantly reduce demand for the PokerPro system. Moreover, the market for the PokerPro system is limited; according to Casino City Press, as of January 31, 2007, there were approximately 6,000 poker tables in the United States and approximately 2,600 poker tables in other countries. Although we believe that this represents a significant opportunity for the PokerPro system, the number of venues in which the PokerPro system can be placed is finite, and the number of jurisdictions in which gaming is legal is limited. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technology, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our net revenue and increase our costs. We believe that our long-term success will depend to a large degree on our ability to protect the proprietary technology that we have developed or acquired or may develop or acquire in the future. We currently have applications for approximately 50 patents pending before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that relate to various aspects of the PokerPro system. However, patent applications can take many years to issue and we can provide no assurance that any of these patents will be issued. If we are denied any or all of these patents, we may not be able to successfully prevent our competitors from imitating the PokerPro system or using some or all of the processes that are the subject of such patent applications. Such imitation may lead to increased competition within the finite market for the PokerPro system. Even if our pending patents are issued, our intellectual property rights may not be sufficiently comprehensive to prevent our competitors from developing similar competitive products and technologies. Although we intend to aggressively pursue anyone we reasonably believe is infringing upon our intellectual property rights, initiating and maintaining suits against third parties that may infringe upon our intellectual property rights will require substantial financial resources. We may not have the financial resources to bring such suits and if we do bring such suits, we may not prevail. Regardless of our success in any such actions, we could incur significant expenses in connection with such suits. 15 Third party claims of infringement against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products and require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties. We are susceptible to intellectual property lawsuits that could cause us to incur substantial costs, pay substantial damages or prohibit us from distributing the PokerPro system. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. If the PokerPro system infringes a valid patent, we could be prevented from distributing the PokerPro system unless and until we can obtain a license or redesign it to avoid infringement. A license may not be available or may require us to pay substantial royalties. We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign the PokerPro system to avoid any infringement. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate, and we may not have the financial and human resources to defend ourselves against any infringement suits that may be brought against us. Defects in, and fraudulent manipulation of, the PokerPro system could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, burden our engineering and marketing resources, involve us in litigation and adversely affect our gaming licenses. Our success will depend on our ability to avoid, detect and correct software and hardware defects and prevent fraudulent manipulation of the PokerPro system. The PokerPro system is subject to rigorous internal testing, and will be subject to additional testing by regulators in certain gaming jurisdictions. We may not be able to build and maintain products that are free from defects or manipulation and that satisfy these tests. Although we have taken steps to prevent defects and manipulations, the PokerPro system could suffer such defects and manipulation after it has been widely distributed. Although we do not believe it is likely, it is possible that an individual could breach the security systems of a casino or card club, gain access to the server on which the PokerPro system operates and fraudulently manipulate its operations. The occurrence of such fraudulent manipulation or of defects or malfunctions could result in financial losses for our customers and the subsequent termination of agreements, cancellation of orders, product returns and diversion of our resources. Even if our customers do not suffer financial losses, casinos and card clubs may replace the PokerPro system if it does not perform according to expectations. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of the PokerPro system and loss of licenses and sales. In addition, the occurrence of defects in, or fraudulent manipulation of, the PokerPro system and its associated software may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other disciplinary action by regulatory authorities that could include suspension or revocation of our regulatory approvals. The use of the PokerPro system could result in product liability claims that could be expensive and that could damage our reputation and harm our business. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims. Subject to contractual limitations, we will face financial exposure to product liability claims if the PokerPro system fails to work properly and causes monetary damage to either poker players or casinos and card clubs. In addition, defects in the design or manufacture of the PokerPro system might require us to recall each PokerPro system that has been licensed. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of policies available to us may not be adequate to cover future claims. If a successful claim brought against us is in excess or outside of our insurance coverage, we may be forced to divert resources from the development of the PokerPro system, the pursuit of regulatory approvals and other working capital needs in order to satisfy such claims. 16 The loss of the services of our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President or other key employees, or the failure to attract additional key individuals, would materially adversely affect our business. Our success depends on the continued services of Lyle Berman, who serves as the Chairman of our Board of Directors. In addition, although they have limited experience in the gaming industry, we believe that due to their leadership in the development of our business, our success also depends on Gehrig H. “Lou” White, who has served as our Chief Executive Officer since our inception, and James T. Crawford, who has served in an executive officer capacity since our inception and who currently serves as our President and Secretary. Our success will also depend on retention of other key management executives who have been instrumental in our development thus far, and on our ability to attract and retain employees to complete the development of enhancements to the PokerPro system and to market it throughout the United States. Mr. Berman is the Executive Chairman of WPT Enterprises, Inc., the operator of the World Poker Tour. We hope to develop business relationships from introductions to strategic partners in the gaming industry that we believe Mr. Berman can facilitate. Mr. Berman is under no obligation to facilitate such introductions and if our relationship with Mr. Berman is terminated or impaired, we may not be able to develop such business relationships, which could delay market acceptance of the PokerPro system and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. We have not entered into an employment agreement or non-competition agreement with either Mr. White or Mr. Crawford. Therefore, either may terminate their employment with us at any time and immediately use certain information and contacts they obtained from their employment with us to compete with our business. The loss of Mr. White, Mr. Crawford or our other senior executives or an inability to attract or retain other key individuals could materially adversely affect us. Growth in our business depends, to a large degree, on our ability to retain and attract such employees. We seek to compensate and incentivize our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, stock ownership and bonus plans, but these programs may not be sufficient to allow us to retain key employees or hire new employees. Our management team’s limited experience in this market could increase costs, hamper our marketing strategies and delay our expansion. We have not yet demonstrated that we are able to implement our business plan fully or in a timely manner. The limited experience of our management team in the gaming industry and the market for automated game technology could result in increased operating and capital costs, difficulties in executing our operating and marketing strategies and delays in our expansion strategy. Our management team also has limited experience with the process of obtaining the regulatory licenses, certifications and approvals that we will need in order to market and distribute the PokerPro system in additional jurisdictions. We may not successfully address any or all of the risks posed by this limited experience, and our failure to do so could seriously harm our business and operating results. If we fail to manage our expected growth, our business and operating results could be harmed. Although we have not received significant operating revenue, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience rapid growth in our headcount and operations, placing significant demands on our operational and financial infrastructure. We intend to increase modestly the number of our employees in the next 12 months to further our research and development and sales efforts and to meet our administrative needs. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our ability to develop and market the PokerPro system could suffer, which could negatively affect our operating results. To manage our expected growth effectively, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. These systems enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If required improvements are not implemented successfully, our ability to manage our expected growth will be impaired and we may have to make significant additional expenditures to address these issues. 17 Our success will depend on the reliability and performance of third-party distributors, manufacturers and suppliers. Although we currently manufacture the PokerPro system from component parts obtained from third-party suppliers, we expect that when development of the PokerPro system is complete, we will retain third-party manufacturers to complete all phases of manufacturing. Should the selected manufacturers not be able to meet our requirements, we would be significantly hampered from serving our customers and may miss revenue-generating opportunities. We currently obtain the touch screen monitors for the PokerPro system from a single supplier. While changing suppliers for this component is not impossible, doing so would require significant time and effort on the part of our management team and may cause us to miss revenue-generating opportunities until we are able to obtain touch screen monitors from a new supplier. In addition, the supply of the liquid crystal display for the PokerPro system is uncertain and subject to significant backlogs from time to time due to spikes in general demand for such displays. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of third-party suppliers for these displays and for other components. Certain of these competing companies have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and thus we may be at a competitive disadvantage in seeking to procure production capacity. Our inability to contract with third-party manufacturers and suppliers to provide a sufficient supply of our products on acceptable terms and on a timely basis could negatively impact our relationships with existing customers and cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities with potential customers. We also currently rely on Aristocrat, a third-party distributor, to market and distribute our PokerPro system outside of the United States and Canada. We cannot predict the timing or acceptance of our product at this time. If Aristocrat is unsuccessful in marketing and distributing our product, we may miss revenue-generating opportunities that might have been recognized by another third-party distributor. While changing distributors is not impossible, doing so would require significant time and effort on the part of our management team and may cause us to miss further revenue-generating opportunities. Our failure to obtain any necessary additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our business. Although initially we have licensed the components of the PokerPro system to customers, in the future we may sell customers such components. Until such time as we are able to sell such hardware components to our customers, our ability to license the PokerPro system to our customers on a large scale may require us to obtain additional financing necessary for the manufacture of such hardware components. Such financing may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. Our inability to obtain such financing on terms that allow us to license the PokerPro system profitably would hamper our ability to distribute PokerPro systems on a large scale and may therefore delay our ability to obtain significant market presence as well as market acceptance of the PokerPro system. In addition, if our revenue is less than we anticipate or if we incur unforeseen expenses, we may need to seek additional equity or debt financing. We may not be able to obtain such additional equity or debt financing when we need it or at all. Even if such financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are favorable to us or in sufficient amounts to satisfy our requirements. If we require, but are unable to obtain, sufficient additional financing in the future we may be unable to develop the PokerPro system, further protect our intellectual property sufficiently, meet customer demand for PokerPro systems or withstand adverse operating results. More importantly, if we are unable to raise further financing when required, our continued operations may have to be scaled down or even terminated and our ability to generate revenues would be negatively affected. 18 A decline in general economic conditions would have a greater material adverse effect on our business than on other businesses. The demand for entertainment and leisure activities, including gaming activities like poker, tends to be highly sensitive to consumers’ disposable incomes. Therefore, a decline in general economic conditions would have more of a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition and the price of our common stock than on other businesses that are not as dependent on consumers’ disposable incomes. If the network infrastructure of certain of the casinos in which the PokerPro system is or will be installed proves unreliable, market acceptance of the PokerPro system would be materially and adversely affected. We have entered into agreements with customers that operate casinos and card clubs in more than one location. In such cases, our agreement with such customer provides that such customer will be responsible for providing, at its expense, a dedicated high-speed connection between the tables comprising the PokerPro system in the various locations operated by the customer to a remote central server supporting such tables. Failures or disruptions of a customer’s dedicated high-speed connection that result in the stoppage of play or in reduced performance of the PokerPro system could reduce players’ gaming experience, adversely affect the casinos’ or card clubs’ satisfaction with automated gaming devices in general and delay or prevent market acceptance of the PokerPro system. Enforcement of remedies or contracts against Native American tribes could be difficult. Many of our contracts with Native American tribes are subject to sovereign immunity and tribal jurisdiction. If a dispute arises with respect to any of those agreements, it could be difficult for us to protect our rights. Native American tribes generally enjoy sovereign immunity from suit similar to that enjoyed by individual states and the United States. In order to sue a Native American tribe (or an agency or instrumentality of a Native American tribe), the tribe must have effectively waived its sovereign immunity with respect to the matter in dispute. Moreover, even if a Native American tribe were to waive sovereign immunity, such waiver may not be valid and in the absence of an effective waiver of sovereign immunity by a Native American tribe, we could be precluded from judicially enforcing any rights or remedies against that tribe. Our business is closely tied to the casino industry and factors that negatively impact the casino industry may also negatively affect our ability to generate revenues. Casinos and other gaming operators represent a significant portion of our customers. Therefore, factors that may negatively impact the casino industry may also negatively impact our future revenues. If casinos experience reduced patronage, revenues may be reduced as our games may not perform well and may be taken off of the casino floor altogether. The level of casino patronage, and therefore our revenues, are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including: · general economic conditions; · levels of disposable income of casino patrons; · downturn or loss in popularity of the gaming industry in general, and table and slot games in particular; · the relative popularity of entertainment alternatives to casino gaming; · the growth and number of legalized gaming jurisdictions; · local conditions in key gaming markets, including seasonal and weather-related factors; · increased transportation costs; · acts of terrorism and anti-terrorism efforts; · changes or proposed changes to tax laws; · increases in gaming taxes or fees; 19 · legal and regulatory issues affecting the development, operation and licensing of casinos; · the availability and cost of capital to construct, expand or renovate new and existing casinos; · the level of new casino construction and renovation schedules of existing casinos; and · competitive conditions in the gaming industry and in particular gaming markets, including the effect of such conditions on the pricing of our games and products. These factors significantly impact the demand for our products and technologies. We may be forced to reduce or delay growth initiatives and capital expenditures, obtain additional equity capital or assume debt if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our operational requirements. If our future cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to meet our operational needs and commitments, we may be forced to reduce or delay activities and capital expenditures, obtain additional equity capital or assume debt. In the event that we are unable to do so, we may be left without sufficient liquidity and we may not be able to meet current needs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 