ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the cautionary statement under the caption “forward-looking statements” and the other information included in this report. The risks described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks that are currently unknown to the Company or that the Company currently considers to be immaterial may also impair its business or adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected. The Company may require additional funding, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on the amount of cash generated or required by our current operations, as well as additional funds which may be needed to finance future acquisitions. Future cash needs are subject to substantial uncertainty. We cannot guarantee that adequate funds will be available when needed, and if we do not receive sufficient capital, we may be required to alter or reduce the scope of our operations or to forego making future acquisitions. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, existing stockholders may be diluted. The Company’s business is sensitive to increases in interest rates. The Company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing issuances of variable rate debt. Primary exposure includes movements in the U.S. prime rate. If interest rates rise, it becomes more costly for the Company’s customers to borrow money to pay for the equipment they buy from the Company. Should the U. S. Federal Reserve Board decide to increase rates, prospects for business investment and manufacturing could deteriorate sufficiently and impact sales opportunities. The Company’s business is sensitive to government spending. Many of the Company’s customers depend substantially on government spending, including highway construction and maintenance and other infrastructure projects by U.S. federal and state governments and governments in other nations. Any decrease or delay in government funding of highway construction and maintenance, other infrastructure projects could cause the Company’s revenues and profits to decrease. The Company’s business is affected by the cyclical nature of its markets. The demand for the Company’s products depends upon the general economic conditions of the markets in which the Company competes. The Company’s sales depend in part upon its customers’ replacement or repair cycles. Adverse economic conditions, including a decrease in commodity prices, may cause customers to forego or postpone new purchases in favor of repairing existing machinery. Downward economic cycles may result in reductions in sales of the Company’s products, which may reduce the Company’s profits. The Company has taken a number of steps to reduce its fixed costs and diversify its operations to decrease the negative impact of these cycles. There can be no assurance, however, that these steps will prevent the negative impact of poor economic conditions. 10 Table of Contents The Company is dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages. The Company obtains materials and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. Any delay in the Company’s suppliers’ abilities to provide the Company with necessary materials and components may affect the Company’s capabilities at a number of our manufacturing locations, or may require the Company to seek alternative supply sources. Delays in obtaining supplies may result from a number of factors affecting the Company’s suppliers including capacity constraints, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair the Company’s ability to deliver products to customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company purchases material and services from suppliers on extended terms based on the Company’s overall credit rating. Negative changes in the Company’s credit rating may impact suppliers’ willingness to extend terms and increase the cash requirements of the business. The Company depends on it computer systems. If its computer systems do not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could be disruptive and or adversely affect the operations and results of operations of the Company, including the ability of the Company to report accurate and timely financial results. The Company depends on it computer systems. If its computer systems do not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could be disruptive and or adversely affect the operations and results of operations of the Company, including the ability of the Company to report accurate and timely financial results. In the future, the Company may either install new releases for existing applications or replace existing systems. Systems implementations projects are often not successful. Even when projects are ultimately successful, the projects often require higher than anticipated financial and personal resources. In the future, should systems not be implemented successfully and within budget, or if the systems do not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could be disruptive and or adversely affect the operations and results of operations of the Company, including the ability of the Company to report accurate and timely financial results. The Company’s level of indebtedness reduces financial flexibility and could impede our ability to operate. As of December 31, 2007, the Company’s long term debt was $23.8 million and includes: lines of credit, notes payable, and capital lease obligations. Our level of debt affects our operations in several important ways, including the following: • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations is likely to be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our indebtedness; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; and • we may be unable to obtain additional loans as a result of covenants and agreements with existing debt holders. The Company has debt outstanding and must comply with restrictive covenants in its debt agreements. The Company’s existing debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants which may limit its ability to, among other things, borrow additional money, make capital expenditures, pay dividends, dispose of assets and acquire new businesses. These covenants also require the Company to meet certain financial tests. The Company is currently in compliance with all active covenants. A default, if not waived by the Company’s lenders, could result in acceleration of the Company’s debt and possibly bankruptcy. 11 Table of Contents Certain of the Company’s products are substantially dependent on the level of capital expenditures in the oil and gas industry and lower capital expenditures will adversely affect the results of the Company’s operations. The demand for the our product in part depends on the condition of the oil and gas industry and, in particular, on the capital expenditures of companies engaged in the exploration, development, and production of oil and natural gas. Capital expenditures by these companies are influenced by the following factors: • the oil and gas industry’s ability to economically justify placing discoveries of oil and gas reserves in production; • the oil and gas industry’s need to clear all structures from the lease once the oil and gas reserves have been depleted; • weather events, such as major tropical storms; • current and projected oil and gas prices; • the abilities of oil and gas companies to generate, access and deploy capital; • exploration, production and transportation costs; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; • the sale and expiration dates of oil and gas leases and concessions; • local and international political and economic conditions; • the ability or willingness of host country government entities to fund their budgetary commitments; and • technological advances. Historically, prices of oil and natural gas and exploration, development and production have fluctuated substantially. A sustained period of substantially reduced capital expenditures by oil and gas companies will result in decreased demand for certain equipment produced by the Company, low margins, and possibly net losses. The Company has had material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting in the past and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. The Company’s failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in the Company’s financial statements which could require the Company to restate financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information and have a negative effect on the Company’s stock price. While management believes that the material weaknesses identified in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting in 2005 and 2006 have been remediated, as of December 31, 2007, management concluded that the Company had a significant deficiency with respect to its internal control over financial reporting due to limited finance and accounting personnel to prepare and review financial statements and our preparation of consolidated financial statements is completed without the aid of consolidation software. During 2006 and 2005, management and the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as defined in the standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants that affected our financial statements for each of the two fiscal years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. The material weaknesses in the Company’s internal control over financial reporting during 2006 and 2005 related to the lack of effective controls relating to financial reporting and close procedures, the lack of controls and procedures to ensure the proper accounting for a complex financing transaction that included warrants, failure to consistently apply controls over non-routine and non-systematic transactions, and the lack of effective and adequate controls to ensure the consistent implementation of accounting policies and procedures across all subsidiaries to prevent inconsistent accounting for similar transactions. As described in the Company’s Form 10-K/A filed on May 16, 2007, the Company restated its audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 to exclude the impact of the 12 Table of Contents potential conversion of convertible subordinated debt. The Company also restated its unaudited pro forma consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2005 and the six-month period ended June 30, 2006 giving effect to the purchase of QVM, LLC, which are described in the Company’s Form 8-K/A filed on September 19, 2006. The Company cannot assure you that additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties the Company encounters in its implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause the Company to fail to meet its periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in its financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual audit or attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting when required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules promulgated under Section 404. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in the Company’s financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause the Company to fail to meet its reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in the Company’s reported financial information, leading to a decline in the Company’s stock price. The Company may face limitations on its ability to integrate acquired businesses. The Company has completed three acquisitions. The successful integration of new businesses depends on the Company’s ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. While the Company believes it has successfully integrated these acquisitions to date, the Company cannot ensure that these acquired companies will operate profitably or that the intended beneficial effect from these acquisitions will be realized. If the Company is unable to manage anticipated growth effectively, the business could be harmed. If the Company fails to manage growth, the Company’s financial results and business prospects may be harmed. To manage the Company’s growth and to execute its business plan efficiently, the Company will need to institute operational, financial and management controls, as well as reporting systems and procedures. The Company also must effectively expand, train and manage its employee base. The Company cannot assure you that it will be successful in any of these endeavors. The Company relies on key management. The Company relies on the management and leadership skills of David Langevin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). Mr. Langevin has a three year employment agreement with the Company which expires on December 31, 2008. The loss of his services could have a significant and negative impact on the Company’s business. In addition, the Company relies on the management and leadership skills of other senior executives. Some of these executives are not bound by employment agreements. The Company could be harmed by the loss of key personnel in the future. The Company’s success depends upon the continued protection of its trademarks and the Company may be forced to incur substantial costs to maintain, defend, protect and enforce its intellectual property rights. The Company’s registered and common law trademarks, as well as certain of the Company’s licensed trademarks, have significant value and are instrumental to the Company’s ability to market its products. The Company’s mark “Manitex”, and its mark “Liftking” are important to the Company’s business as the majority of the Company’s products are sold under those names. The Company has not registered all of its trademarks in the United States nor in the foreign countries where it does business. The Company cannot assure you that third parties will not assert claims against any such intellectual property or that the Company will be able to successfully resolve all such claims. If the Company has to change the names of any of its products, it may experience a loss of goodwill associated with its brand names, customer confusion and a loss of sales. In addition, international protection of the Company’s intellectual property may not be available in some foreign countries to the same extent permitted by the laws of the United States. The Company could also incur substantial costs to defend legal actions relating to use of its intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Our regular manufacturing process and services may expose us to intellectual property infringement and other claims, which could cause us to incur unanticipated costs and hurt our competitive position. Providing manufacturing services can expose us to potential claims that the product design or manufacturing processes infringe third party intellectual property rights. In addition, we may be responsible for claims that components used in manufacturing infringe third party intellectual property rights. While the Company is not aware of any claims that it infringes the intellectual property rights of any third party, such claims, if made, could subject us to significant liability for damages, and potentially injunctive action and, regardless of merits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve. The Company may be unable to effectively respond to technological change, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and business. The markets served by the Company are not historically characterized by rapidly changing technology. Nevertheless, the Company’s future success will depend in part upon the Company’s ability to enhance its current products and to develop and introduce new products. If the Company fails to anticipate or respond adequately to competitors’ product improvements and new production introductions, future results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and the Company is particularly subject to the risks of such competition. The Company competes in a highly competitive industry and the competition which the Company encounters has an effect on its product prices, market share, revenues and profitability. Because certain competitors have substantially greater financial, production, research and development resources and substantially greater name recognition than the Company, the Company is particularly subject to the risks inherent in competing with them and may be put at a competitive disadvantage. To compete successfully, the Company’s products must excel in terms of quality, price, product line, ease of use, safety and comfort, and the Company must also provide excellent customer service. The greater financial resources of the Company’s competitors may put it at a competitive disadvantage. If competition in the Company’s industry intensifies or if the Company’s current competitors enhance their products or lower their prices for competing products, the Company may lose sales or be required to lower its prices. This may reduce revenue from the Company’s products and services, lower its gross margins or cause the Company to lose market share. The Company may not be able to differentiate our products from those of competitors, successfully develop or introduce less costly products, offer better performance than competitors or offer purchasers of our products payment and other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by competitors. The Company faces product liability claims and other liabilities due to the nature of its business. In the Company’s lines of business numerous suits have been filed alleging damages for accidents that have occurred during the use or operation of the Company’s products. The Company is self-insured, up to certain limits, for these product liability exposures, as well as for certain exposures related to general, workers’ compensation and automobile liability. Insurance coverage is obtained for catastrophic losses as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract. The Company does not believe that the final outcome of such matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position; however any liabilities not covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. We are subject to currency fluctuations. Our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars while costs incurred to generate revenues are only partly incurred in the same currencies. In addition, we have a note payable for approximately $2.6 million Canadian dollars. Changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. 14 Table of Contents We engage in hedging activities to mitigate the impact of the translation of foreign currencies on our financial results. Our hedging activities are designed to reduce and delay, but not to eliminate, the effects of foreign currency fluctuations. Factors that could affect the effectiveness of our hedging activities include accuracy of sales forecasts, volatility of currency markets, and the availability of hedging instruments. Since the hedging activities are designed to reduce volatility, they not only reduce the negative impact of a weaker U.S. dollar, but they also reduce the positive impact of a stronger U.S. dollar. Our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The degree to which our financial results are affected for any given time period will depend in part upon our hedging activities. There can be no assurance that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, no hedging activity can completely insulate us from the risks associated with changes in currency exchange rates. Risks Relating to our Common Stock The Company’s principal shareholders, an executive officer and directors hold a significant percentage of the Company’s common stock, and these shareholders may take actions that may be adverse to your interests. The Company’s principal shareholders, executive officers and directors beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 48% of the Company’s common stock as of March 18, 2008. As a result, these shareholders, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, consolidations, sales and purchases of assets. They also could dictate the management of the Company’s business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall or prevent you from receiving a premium in such a transaction. The cost of compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 may negatively impact the Company’s income. The Company is subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC, including those rules and regulations mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of requires all reporting companies to include in their annual report a statement of management’s responsibilities for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, together with an assessment of the effectiveness of those internal controls. The costs to comply with these requirements will likely be significant and may adversely affect our operating results. Section 404 further requires that the reporting company’s independent auditors attest to, and report on, this management assessment. The Company is not yet subject to the auditor attestation requirement of Section 404; however, the Company expects its expenses related to its internal and external auditors to be significant. If we fail to maintain a system of adequate controls, it could have an adverse effect on our business and stock price. 15 Table of Contents The price of our common stock is highly volatile. The trading price of the Company’s common stock is highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, including: • the degree to which the Company successfully implements its business strategy; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly or annual operating results; • changes in recommendations by the investment community or in their estimates of the Company’s revenues or operating results; • failure to meet expectations of industry analysts; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by the Company’s competitors; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by the Company or competitors; and • changes in business conditions affecting the Company and its customers. The market prices of securities of companies without consistent earnings have been highly volatile. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, class action litigation has often been brought against the company. If a securities class action suit is filed against us, whether or not meritorious, we would incur substantial legal fees and our management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business in order to respond to the litigation. Future sales of the Company’s common stock by existing shareholders in the pubic market, or the possibility or perception of such sales, could depress the Company’s stock price. Sales of a large number of shares of the Company’s common stock, or the availability of a large number of shares for sale, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock and could impair the Company’s ability to raise funds in additional stock offerings. Approximately 9,809,340 the Company’s shares are eligible for sale in the public market, approximately 4,581,316 of which are subject to applicable volume limitations and other restrictions set forth in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Anti-takeover provisions of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws and provisions of Michigan law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. The Company’s Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws and Michigan law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be beneficial to you. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s shares. Because of these provisions, you might not be able to receive a premium on your investment. These provisions: • authorize the Company’s Board of Directors, with approval by a majority of its independent Directors but without requiring shareholder consent, to issue shares of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by the Company’s Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and prevent a takeover attempt; • limit our shareholders’ ability to call a special meeting of the Company’s shareholders; and • limit the Company’s shareholders’ ability to amend, alter or repeal the Company bylaws. Any of the provisions described above could delay or make more difficult transactions involving a change in control of the Company or its management 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 