ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following important factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and presented elsewhere by management from time to time. If the proposed Merger with Philips is not completed, our business and stock price will be adversely affected. On January 18, 2006, we entered into the Merger Agreement with Philips and Merger Sub, pursuant to which Merger Sub will merge with and into Lifeline, with Lifeline continuing after the Merger as the surviving corporation and as an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Philips. At the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of our common stock will be converted into the right to receive $47.75 in cash. Also, at the effective time of the Merger, each outstanding option to purchase shares of our common stock, whether vested or unvested, will be terminated and cancelled in consideration for a cash payment equal to the product of (1) the excess of $47.75 over the exercise price for the option multiplied by (2) the number of shares subject to the option. The consummation of the Merger is subject to, among other things, approval of our shareholders and other customary closing conditions. The Merger has been unanimously approved by our Board of Directors and will be considered by our shareholders at a special meeting of shareholders to be held on March 21, 2006. If our shareholders approve the Merger, we would expect the closing of the Merger to occur soon thereafter. We expect to incur expenses of approximately $1.6 million related to the Merger. These Merger-related expenses include investment banking fees and legal and professional fees. A contingent termination fee of $21.0 million is payable by us to Philips in the event that the Merger Agreement is terminated as a result of certain events detailed in the Merger Agreement. Our business and stock price will be adversely affected if the Merger is not completed as a result of several factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • the stock price payable by Philips represents a premium to the price at which our shares were trading before the announcement; • our customers, prospective customers and investors in general may view this failure as a poor reflection on our business or prospects; • customers or prospective customers may have delayed their purchase commitments until the Merger was complete and the product integration plan and roadmap was clarified or may have chosen to not purchase at all; • certain of our suppliers and business partners may have sought to change or terminate their relationships with us as a result of the proposed Merger; • our key employees may have sought other employment opportunities; and • our management team may have been distracted from day-to-day operations as a result of the proposed Merger. -11- Table of Contents If our recent marketing initiatives are not effective, we may not grow as we anticipate. We have undertaken a number of marketing initiatives to increase our service and other revenue, including a direct marketing campaign directed at health care providers likely to refer our services to their patients, a direct-to-subscriber campaign to target caregivers as purchasers of our service on behalf of their parents and other relatives, and recent initiatives focused on the senior living industry and e-commerce. We have allocated, and expect to continue to allocate, significant resources and capital expenditures to support these efforts and anticipate that our future growth will depend, in part, on the success of these initiatives. If these marketing efforts are unsuccessful, we may not grow as anticipated, or at all, and our results of operations may be harmed. If our customers do not successfully manage and grow their local Lifeline programs, or if we are unable to maintain and build these customer relationships, the distribution of our products and services will be materially and adversely affected and we could experience decreased sales or slower than expected growth in revenues. We rely primarily on community hospitals and other health care providers to sell and distribute our products and services to subscribers. These customers may not seek to grow their Lifeline subscriber bases as actively as we might if we were selling our service directly to subscribers due to their limited resources or because our customers, which are often non-profit institutions, may have reasons for implementing a Lifeline program that could be different from ours. Limited or ineffective marketing of our products and services by our customers could lead to decreased sales or slower than expected growth in revenues. If we fail to maintain our leadership position in the PERS industry, our sales and competitive position will suffer and our results of operations will be harmed. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to maintain our leadership position in the PERS industry. We must continue to enhance our current product and service offerings, achieve greater market penetration among our target subscribers and expand into complementary businesses such as the senior living industry. If we fail in these endeavors, our revenues may not grow as we anticipate or may decline. Our future growth is dependent, in part, on acquiring other PERS providers and businesses strategic to us. If we are unable to identify and acquire suitable acquisition candidates, our future growth may be curtailed. One of our principal growth strategies is to expand our business through acquisitions of PERS providers and other complementary businesses that we believe are strategic, such as businesses providing products and services to the senior living industry. If we are unable to continue to identify, attract and close future acquisitions, our growth may slow, and our subscriber base and revenues may decline. In addition, negotiations for acquisitions could result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. If we acquire other businesses, we may be unable to effectively integrate them with our business, or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for any such transactions. Even if we are successful in identifying and acquiring businesses strategic to us, these activities involve a number of risks, including: • we may find the acquired business does not further our business strategy, that we overpaid for the company or the economic assumptions underlying our acquisition decision have changed or were not accurate; -12- Table of Contents • difficulties integrating the acquired companies’ products and services and subscriber base with our existing PERS and senior living offerings; • difficulties integrating the operations, technology or monitoring platform and personnel of an acquired company, or retaining the key personnel of the acquired company critical to its continued operation and success; • disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management’s attention by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically or culturally diverse enterprises; • difficulties maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations and businesses; • litigation by terminated employees or third parties; and • problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and legal contingencies relating to the acquired business or technology, such as intellectual property matters. These and other factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or multiple acquisitions in a short period of time. Acquisitions may also have a negative effect on our earnings per share. If we were to proceed with one or more significant acquisitions or investments in which the consideration included cash, we could be required to use a substantial portion of our available cash to consummate any acquisition or investment. To the extent we issue shares of capital stock or other rights to purchase capital stock, including options, stock appreciation rights and warrants, existing shareholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. In addition, acquisitions and investments may result in the incurrence of debt, large one-time write-offs, such as of acquired in-process research and development costs, and restructuring charges. They may also result in goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to impairment tests, which could result in future impairment charges. Our Canadian operations subject us to risks that could harm our business. Our Canadian operations, which represented approximately 11% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005 subject us to risks, including: • foreign exchange fluctuations; • changes in and differences between domestic and foreign regulatory requirements; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. Failure to adequately address any of these risks could adversely affect our ability to operate our Canadian facilities. If we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, we could lose existing customers and subscribers and be unable to attract new business. Our business depends, in part, on our ability to enhance our current products and to develop new services and products that keep pace with continuing technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing customer and subscriber preferences and new service and product introductions by our competitors. Although we believe the introduction of products utilizing -13- Table of Contents new, non-telephony-based communications may be limited by the availability of such communications technologies in the homes of our target market, others may be successful in introducing monitoring services through other communications technologies. If we are not successful in developing, marketing and selling new services and products that meet changing demands, our business may be harmed. We currently face and expect to continue to face competition in our industry. Although we believe we are the leader in the PERS industry, there are a large number of smaller providers, primarily at the local or regional level, who we compete with for customers and subscribers. In addition, there are a number of other companies providing non-PERS monitoring and other related services to their customers. If these or other companies enter the PERS industry, they may have a competitive advantage by having greater financial, sales and marketing, engineering and manufacturing resources, a larger installed based of existing customers and economies of scale not available to us. We derive a portion of our revenue from government-funded health care programs such as Medicaid. If these programs tighten eligibility standards or coverage policies or if current reimbursement rates are reduced, we may lose subscribers and our revenues may decline. As of December 31, 2005, less than 10% of our centrally-monitored subscribers were billed under state Medicaid contracts, representing approximately 8% of our total revenue for the year then ended. As we pursue our acquisition strategy, we anticipate that the proportion of our revenues from Medicaid programs may increase due to the large number of Medicaid subscribers associated with the smaller locally-operated PERS providers that are acquisition prospects. If government-funded health care programs tighten their program eligibility standards, impose new coverage restrictions or reduce or eliminate payments for our services, these subscribers may not have the financial resources to continue our service. In addition, it is typically more difficult to collect accounts receivable from sales to Medicaid programs than from private payors. Our business is subject to U.S. state and federal government regulation, as well as Canadian regulation, and may be subject to additional regulations in the future. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations, our revenue, operating margin and profitability could suffer. Our monitoring equipment is registered with the FCC and the FDA in the United States and certified by Industry Canada in Canada. Our revenue, operating margin and profitability could be adversely affected by new laws and/or regulations, changes in the interpretation of existing laws and/or regulations, reductions in funding or imposition of additional limits on reimbursements. Furthermore, as a provider of services under government-funded health care programs, we are subject to fraud and abuse, anti-referral and anti-kickback laws and regulations that impose stringent limitations on our compensation, consulting, marketing and other business relationships with health care providers and other businesses. In addition, our business is affected by HIPAA, which imposed comprehensive national standards for privacy, security and electronic transactions involving individually identifiable health information. Since our government services business conducts electronic health claim transactions relating to the coordination of health care treatment for individual persons, it may be covered by the HIPAA privacy, security and transaction standards. Much of our business is conducted under contractual service arrangements with hospitals and other health care providers that are, in turn, required by HIPAA to impose certain privacy, security and transaction -14- Table of Contents requirements through their contracts with us. The HIPAA regulations define minimum national standards, but individual states are permitted to adopt and enforce more stringent health data privacy and security rules. Because we are engaged in commercial activities in Canada, our business is subject to Canadian privacy legislation. In addition, we must comply with provincial health information legislation as a result of the individually identifiable health information of our subscribers that we maintain. These federal and provincial laws require us to obtain consent to collect, use and disclose personal information and to implement procedures to keep this information secure. Variation in regulatory requirements among different jurisdictions may cause us to incur significant compliance costs. Violations of these laws by us could have a material and adverse impact on our business and may subject us to substantial fines and penalties. If we lose the services of one or more members of our executive management team or other key employees, we may not be able to execute our business strategy. Our future success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive management team and other key employees. The loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could harm our business and our ability to execute on our business strategy. If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified monitoring personnel, our ability to provide high quality monitoring services and continue to develop and successfully market our service could be harmed. We believe our business depends, in part, on the talents and efforts of our monitoring personnel, who are key to delivering high quality, caring monitoring services. As a result, our future growth is dependent on our ability to identify, attract, train, retain and motivate these persons. Any of our current employees may terminate their employment with us at any time. We may not be able to hire or retain the personnel necessary to fulfill our monitoring function. The loss of a significant portion of our monitoring personnel would materially and adversely affect our business and ability to deliver high-quality monitoring services to our subscribers. If our monitoring products fail or contain design or other defects, or if our monitoring personnel do not appropriately respond to a call, our reputation may be damaged, we may lose subscribers and we may have significant damage claims against us. Subscribers rely on our monitoring equipment and services in emergency situations. Our monitoring products may contain design defects or fail to operate or transmit in an emergency situation. In addition, after a subscriber pushes their personal help button, we rely on wireless signals to initiate the call from the home communicator attached to the subscriber’s telephone. The wireless signals that we use may be subject to interference and the frequencies may become congested over time. Additionally, although our monitoring professionals are highly trained in emergency response and are required to follow a response protocol established by us, these employees must exercise judgment about how best to respond to each particular emergency. In the event our products fail to operate or transmit properly, or if our monitoring personnel do not appropriately respond to a call, such as by failing to send an appropriate responder to the subscriber’s home, especially in an emergency situation, we may suffer significant adverse consequences, including: • negative publicity and damage to our reputation; -15- Table of Contents • loss of customers and subscribers; • increased service and warranty expenses; • diversion of our product engineering, management and other resources; and • liability for breach of warranty, product liability and other claims against us and payment of damages, which could be significant as our products and services are used to respond to emergency situations. If we experience interruptions or failures in our centralized monitoring facilities, we may lose subscribers or have significant damage claims against us. We have two monitoring centers located in Framingham, Massachusetts to service U.S. subscribers, as well as two additional monitoring centers, in Toronto, Ontario and Montreal, Quebec, to service Canadian subscribers. We believe that our fully-redundant second U.S. monitoring facility adds significantly to our disaster recovery capabilities as it equips us with the stability, redundancy and scalability to maintain a high level of fault tolerance. Although we chose to locate our two U.S. monitoring centers close to one another after analysis as to the likely causes of center failure, the close proximity of these two centers may mean that failures caused by regional emergencies, such as an earthquake, storm or electrical outage, may cause both of our U.S. monitoring facilities to fail. In the event that one or more of these monitoring centers fails, we may not be able to respond to subscriber emergencies, possibly for an extended period of time. Failure of our ability to answer subscribers’ calls during an emergency could expose us to significant liability claims, negative publicity and loss of subscribers. We have from time to time been named as a defendant in lawsuits alleging damages based on our response to subscriber calls. We seek to manage our product liability risk through contractual limits on liability and damages, and by carrying comprehensive liability insurance. However, the contractual limits may not be enforceable in all jurisdictions or circumstances. A successful claim may be made for damages which exceeds the coverage under any insurance policy. In the future, our insurance costs may become more expensive and, as a result, additional insurance may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If there is an unauthorized disclosure of customer data, whether through a breach of our computer systems or otherwise, we could be exposed to costly litigation or we could lose customers. We store sensitive subscriber data on our computer networks, including names, addresses, credit card information and health information. If our network security is compromised by a third party, or such data are otherwise misappropriated, we could be subject to civil liability claims, regulatory enforcement actions under laws such as HIPAA or similar state laws, loss of reputation and loss of customers ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 