Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is closely tied to the casino industry and factors that negatively impact the casino industry may also negatively affect our ability to generate revenues. 6 Casinos and other gaming operators represent a significant portion of our customers. Therefore, factors that may negatively impact the casino industry may also negatively impact our future revenues. If casinos experience reduced patronage, revenues may be reduced as our games may not perform well and may be taken off of the casino floor altogether. The levels of casino patronage, and therefore our revenues, are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including: — general economic conditions; — levels of disposable income of casino patrons; — downturn or loss in popularity of the gaming industry in general, and table and slot games in particular; — the relative popularity of entertainment alternatives to casino gaming; — the growth and number of legalized gaming jurisdictions; — local conditions in key gaming markets, including seasonal and weather-related factors; — increased transportation costs; — acts of terrorism and anti-terrorism efforts; — changes or proposed changes to tax laws; — increases in gaming taxes or fees; — legal and regulatory issues affecting the development, operation and licensing of casinos; — the availability and cost of capital to construct, expand or renovate new and existing casinos; — the level of new casino construction and renovation schedules of existing casinos; and — competitive conditions in the gaming industry and in particular gaming markets, including the effect of such conditions on the pricing of our games and products. These factors significantly impact the demand for our products and technologies. Our business would suffer if demand for gaming in general, or poker in particular, decreases. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the licensing and sale of the PokerPro system and from providing related maintenance and support services. Although the popularity of poker in particular and gaming in general has recently been growing in the United States and abroad, gaming has historically experienced backlash from various constituencies and communities. Public tastes are unpredictable and subject to change and may be affected by changes in the country’s political and social climate. A change in public tastes or a backlash among certain constituencies or in certain communities could result in reduced popularity of poker or increased regulation of the gaming industry, either of which could significantly reduce demand for the PokerPro system. Moreover, the market for the PokerPro system is limited. Although we believe that there is a significant opportunity for PokerPro, the number of venues in which the PokerPro system can be placed is finite, as the number of jurisdictions in which gaming is legal is limited. We are impacted by changes in consumer spending in general, and specifically with regard to discretionary spending on gaming activities. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from the leasing, licensing and sale of the PokerPro system and from providing related maintenance and support. Gaming revenues and occupancy in major gaming markets have been more volatile in recent years, causing many casino operators to reevaluate their operations, reduce expenses, and in some cases to cease operations or seek bankruptcy protection. We also understand that electronics and other vendors in the Far East have experienced volatility of demand from their customers, which could possibly impact their ability to manufacture and deliver products efficiently and at acceptable costs to us. A prolonged decline in consumer spending on gaming activities could have a significant impact on our customers and our vendors. Accordingly, such a prolonged downturn could have a significant impact on our business operations and financial condition. 7 We have debt financing arrangements, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future, and may impair our ability to react quickly to changes in our business. Our exposure to debt financing could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position. For example, it could: · increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are at variable rates of interest; · require us to dedicate future cash flows to the repayment of debt. This could reduce the availability of cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; · limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and · limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements. We may also incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could materially increase the impact of these risks on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to repay our debt depends on many factors beyond our control. We may raise equity capital in the future, subjecting our current shareholders to significant dilution. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital in the future, we may seek other avenues to fund the business, including sale/leaseback arrangements, transitioning PokerPro from a capital intensive leasing strategy to a product sale strategy, or seeking to sell assets of all, or a portion of, our operations. Payments on our debt will depend on our ability to generate cash or secure additional financing in the future. This ability, to an extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and sufficient future financing is not available to us, we may not be able to repay our debt, operate our business or fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot meet or refinance our obligations when they become due, this may require us to attempt to raise capital, sell assets, reduce expenditures or take other actions which we may be unable to successfully complete or, even if successful, could have a material adverse effect on us. If such sources of capital are not available or not available on sufficiently favorable terms, we may seek other avenues to fund the business, including sale/leaseback arrangements, transitioning PokerPro from a capital intensive leasing strategy to a product sale strategy, or seeking to sell assets of all, or a portion of, our operations. If we decide to raise capital in the equity markets or take other actions, our shareholders could incur significant dilution or diminished valuations, or, if we are unable to raise capital, our ability to effectively operate our business could be impaired. In addition, if we are successful in raising capital in the equity markets to repay our indebtedness, or for any other purpose in the future, our shareholders would incur significant dilution. The agreements and instruments governing our debt contain restrictions and limitations which could significantly impact our ability to operate our business. Our credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank contains covenants that could adversely impact our business by limiting our ability to obtain future financing, withstand a future downturn in our business or the economy in general, conduct operations or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities that may arise. The credit facility includes covenants requiring the achievement of specified financial ratios and thresholds and contains other terms and conditions qualifying the terms upon which Silicon Valley Bank is required to extend funds. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. We are dependent on a small number of key suppliers and customers. Changes in our relationships with these parties, or changes in the economic or regulatory environments in which they operate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenues are concentrated with a small number of customers. The loss of any of these customers or changes in our relationship with them could have a material adverse effect on our business. To manufacture our gaming products, we purchase components from independent manufacturers, many of whom are located in the Far East. An extended interruption in the supply of these products or suitable substitute inventory would disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For a number of our key inventory components, we rely on a single supplier. We cannot estimate with any certainty the length of time that would be required to establish alternative supply relationships, or whether the quantity or quality of materials that could be so obtained would be sufficient. Furthermore, we may incur additional costs in sourcing materials from alternative producers. The disruption of our inventory supply, even in the short-term, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 A significant portion of our business is conducted with customers and suppliers located outside of the United States. Currency, economic, regulatory, political and other risks associated with our international operations could adversely affect our operating results. Our revenues from international customers and our inventory costs from international suppliers are exposed to the potentially adverse effects of currency exchange rates, local economic conditions, political instability and other risks associated with doing business in foreign countries. To the extent that our revenues and purchases from international business partners increase in the future, our exposure to changes in foreign economic conditions and currency fluctuations will increase. Our dependence on foreign customers and suppliers means, in part, that we may be affected by changes in the relative value of the U.S. dollar to foreign currencies. Although our receipts from foreign customers and our purchases of foreign products are principally negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars, a portion of our business is denominated in other currencies and changes in the applicable currency exchange rates might negatively affect the profitability and business prospects of our customers and vendors. This, in turn, might cause such vendors to demand higher prices, delay shipments, or discontinue selling to us. This also might cause such customers to demand lower prices, delay or discontinue purchases of our products or demand other changes to the terms of our relationships. These situations could in turn ultimately reduc e our revenues or increase our costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a limited operating history and a history of losses. We may be unable to generate sufficient net revenue in the future to achieve or sustain profitability. We have experienced net losses for each quarterly and annual period since our inception in August 2003. We may continue to incur losses and cash flow deficits. For the reasons discussed above and elsewhere in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, it is possible that we may not generate significant revenues or profits in the foreseeable future or at all. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, and our failure to do so would adversely affect our business and the market price of our common stock and may require us to raise additional capital, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Our success depends on achieving and maintaining acceptance by casinos and players worldwide. Our success depends on continued market acceptance of our gaming products among casinos and players. Casinos and players may not prefer to use our gaming products for a number of reasons, including preference for live dealers, mistrust of technology and perceived lack of reliability. We are launching a new product, Blackjack Pro and expanding into house-banked games which have different attributes than our traditional PokerPro business. The launch of a new product may increase financial pressures and the new product may not be accepted by players or operators, or may not generate sufficient revenue to cover costs. If we fail to successfully manage our new product development, or if we fail to anticipate the issues associated with such development and expansion, our business may suffer. The success of our new product introductions depends on a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate and manage a variety of issues such as: operator and player acceptance, effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, and quality problems or other defects in the early stages of new product introduction that were not anticipated in the design of those products. Our business may suffer and we may encounter financial pressure and increased costs if we fail to successfully anticipate and manage these issues associated with the expansion of our product line. 9 If we fail to obtain or maintain gaming licenses and regulatory approvals, we will be unable to license or sell our gaming products. The manufacture and distribution of gaming machines is subject to extensive federal, state, local and tribal regulation. Most jurisdictions require licenses, permits and other forms of approval for gaming devices. Most, if not all, jurisdictions also require licenses, permits and documentation of suitability, including evidence of financial stability, for the manufacturers and distributors of such gaming devices and for their officers, directors, major shareholders and key personnel. Our failure to obtain regulatory approval in any jurisdiction will prevent us from distributing our products and generating gaming revenue in that jurisdiction. Any registrations, licenses, approvals or findings of suitability that we currently have or may obtain in the future may be revoked, suspended or conditioned at any time. The revocation or denial of a license in a particular jurisdiction will prevent us from distributing our gaming products in that jurisdiction, and could adversely affect our ability to obtain and/or maintain licenses in other jurisdictions. Gaming authorities in multiple jurisdictions have determined that certain of our executive officers, key employees, directors and significant shareholders are suitable. The inability of an executive officer, key employee, director or significant shareholder to obtain or maintain a determination of suitability in a jurisdiction may adversely affect the sale or licensing of our gaming products in that jurisdiction. Gaming authorities in some jurisdictions may investigate any individual who has a material relationship with us and any of our shareholders to determine whether the individual or shareholder is suitable to those gaming authorities. Certain of our executive officers, key employees, directors and significant shareholders have been found suitable in multiple jurisdictions by various gaming authorities. If a gaming authority in any jurisdiction fails to find any of our executive officers, key employees, directors or significant shareholders suitable, we may be prohibited from leasing, licensing or selling our gaming products in that jurisdiction. A finding of suitability is generally determined based upon numerous facts and circumstances surrounding the entity or individual in question and many gaming authorities have broad discretion in determining whether a particular entity or individual is suitable. We are unaware of circumstances that would categorically prevent a gaming authority from finding any of our officers, key employees, directors or significant shareholders suitable. Gehrig H. White, our Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and beneficial owner of approximately 12.6% of our common stock, has disclosed in applications for the determination of suitability filed with gaming authorities that the IRS completed an examination of his 2000 and 2001 federal individual income tax returns. The IRS issued an examination report showing a proposed income tax deficiency for Mr. White’s 2000 federal income tax return of $410,215 (plus additional interest and penalties attributable to that underpayment of tax). In 2011, Mr. White reached a settlement for his 2000 federal individual tax returns. These amounts have been paid, which successfully completes the examination process for Mr. White’s 2000 return. Due to the broad discretionary powers of gaming authorities, it is unknown what effect the IRS examinations of Mr. White’s federal income tax returns may have on Mr. White’s applications for a determination of suitability. If any of our executive officers, certain key employees, directors or significant shareholders is not found suitable in a jurisdiction requiring a finding of suitability, we would be prevented from leasing, licensing or selling our gaming products in that jurisdiction as long as the individual or entity in question remained an officer, key employee, director or a significant shareholder. Such an occurrence would likely delay introduction of our gaming products into such jurisdiction or prevent us from introducing our gaming products in such jurisdiction altogether. Depending on how material such a jurisdiction is to our plan of operations, failure to obtain such findings of suitability could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, a finding that one of our executive officers, certa in key employees, directors or significant shareholders is not suitable in any jurisdiction may hinder our ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals in other jurisdictions. Conversely, however, a finding of suitability by one or more gaming authorities does not ensure that similar suitability determinations will be obtained from any other gaming authorities. Although we have the ability to terminate the employment of an executive officer or key employee in the event that such executive officer or key employee fails to be found suitable, such termination would disrupt the management of our company, may trigger severance provisions under certain employment agreements and would likely have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, the removal of a director under the provisions of our Restated Bylaws requires action on the part of our shareholders at a shareholders’ meeting. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that we may redeem at fair market value any or all shares of our capital stock held by any person or entity whose status as a shareholder, in the opinion of our Board of Directors, jeopardizes the approval, continued existence, or renewal of any federal, state, local or tribal license we hold. However, we may not have the funds available for such a redemption, especially if the shareholder in question holds a significant amount of our common stock. We have not determined what action we would take in such an event. We will also be prevented from effecting such a redemption if it would violate North Carolina law. 10 If the Johnson Act is found to apply to the PokerPro system, the Department of Justice may institute criminal and/or civil proceedings against us. Gaming devices are regulated at the federal level by the Johnson Act. The Johnson Act broadly defines an illegal gambling device as any machine or mechanical device designed and manufactured primarily for use in connection with gambling and that, when operated, delivers money or other property to a player as the result of the application of an element of chance. We believe the Johnson Act does not apply to the use of the PokerPro system by tribal casinos because several courts have held that electronic aids to permitted Class II gaming devices under the IGRA are not prohibited by the Johnson Act. However, there is no guarantee that our belief is correct. These decisions have focused on the use by tribal casinos of electronic aids to bingo. We are not aware of any court or regulatory body that has considered how the Johnson Act applies to the PokerPro system or any other form of electronic poker table. The Department of Justice, the primary law enforcement entity responsible for enforcing the Johnson Act, has traditionally taken a broad view as to what constitutes a gambling device prohibited by the Johnson Act. It is possible that the Department of Justice may institute criminal and/or civil proceedings against us and that a court may rule that the Johnson Act prohibits the use of the PokerPro system by tribal casinos unless the tribe and state have entered into an appropriate tribal-state compact. Any such proceedings could interfere with our ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals. We could face substantial competition, which could reduce our market share and negatively impact our net revenue. There are a number of companies that manufacture and distribute automated gaming machines. These companies may have greater financial resources than we have. The primary barriers to entry are the establishment of relationships with the owners and operators of casinos and card clubs, the receipt of necessary regulatory approvals and the development of the technology necessary to create an automated poker table. It is likely that our potential competitors could include manufacturers of gaming devices that have already established such relationships and that have received some, if not all, of the regulatory approvals that would be required to market and sell automated poker tables in our target markets. Therefore, the barriers to entry discussed above may not pose a significant obstacle for such manufacturers if they sought to compete wi th us. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, competitors may be able to use our technology, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our net revenue and increase our costs. Our long-term success will depend to some degree on our ability to protect the proprietary technology that we have developed or may develop or acquire in the future. Patent applications can take many years to issue and we can provide no assurance that any of these patents will be issued. If we are denied any or all of these patents, we may not be able to successfully prevent our competitors from imitating the PokerPro system or using some or all of the processes that are the subject of such patent applications. Such imitation may lead to increased competition within the finite market for the PokerPro system. Even if our pending patents are issued, our intellectual property rights may not be sufficiently comprehensive to prevent our competitors from developing similar competitive products and technologies. Although we may aggressively pursue anyone whom we reasonably believe is infringing upon our intellectual property rights, initiating and maintaining suits against third parties that may infringe upon our intellectual property rights will require substantial financial resources. We may not have the financial resources to bring such suits and if we do bring such suits, we may not prevail. Regardless of our success in any such actions, we could incur significant expenses in connection with such suits. Third party claims of infringement against us could adversely affect our ability to market our products and require us to redesign our products or seek licenses from third parties. We are susceptible to intellectual property lawsuits that could cause us to incur substantial costs, pay substantial damages or prohibit us from distributing our products. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. In addition, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which later may result in issued patents that our products may infringe. If any of our products infringe a valid patent, we could be prevented from distributing that product unless and until we can obtain a license or redesign it to avoid infringement. A license may not be available or may require us to pay substantial royalties. We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign the product to avoid any infringement. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate, and we may not have the financial and human resources to defend ourselves against any infringement suits that may be brought against us. Defects in, and fraudulent manipulation of, our products could reduce our revenue, increase our costs, burden our engineering and marketing resources, involve us in litigation and adversely affect our gaming licenses. Our success will depend on our ability to avoid, detect and correct software and hardware defects and prevent fraudulent manipulation of our products. Our electronic gaming products are subject to rigorous internal testing, and additional testing by regulators in certain gaming jurisdictions. We may not be able to maintain products that are free from defects or manipulation and that continue to satisfy these tests. Although we have taken steps to prevent defects, our products could suffer such defects and our products could be subject to manipulation after they have been widely distributed. 11 Although we do not believe it is likely, it is possible that an individual could breach the security systems of a casino or card club, gain access to the server and fraudulently manipulate its operations. The occurrence of such fraudulent manipulation or of defects or malfunctions could result in financial losses for our customers and the subsequent termination of agreements, cancellation of orders, product returns and diversion of our resources. Even if our customers do not suffer financial losses, customers may replace our products if they do not perform according to expectations. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of sales and, in the case of gaming products, loss of regulatory approvals. In addition, the occurrence of defects or fraudulent manipulation may give rise to claims for lost revenues and related litigation by our customers and may subject us to investigation or other disciplinary action by regulatory authorities that could include suspension or revocation of our regulatory approvals. If the network infrastructure of certain of the casinos in which our electronic gaming products are or will be installed proves unreliable, market acceptance could be materially and adversely affected. We have entered into agreements with customers that operate casinos and card clubs in more than one location. In such cases, our agreement with such customer provides that such customer will be responsible for providing, at its expense, a dedicated high-speed connection between the tables in the various locations operated by the customer to a remote central server supporting such tables. Failures or disruptions of a customer’s dedicated high-speed connection that result in the stoppage of play or in reduced performance of the system could reduce players’ gaming experience, adversely affect the casinos’ or card clubs’ satisfaction with automated gaming devices in general and delay or prevent market acceptance of our electronic gaming tables. The use of our electronic table games could result in product liability claims that could be expensive and that could damage our reputation and harm our business. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims. Subject to contractual limitations, we will face financial exposure to product liability claims if our products fail to work properly and cause monetary damage to either players or casinos and card clubs. In addition, defects in the design or manufacture of our products might require us to recall those products. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of policies available to us may not be adequate to cover future claims. If a successful claim brought against us is in excess or outside of our insurance coverage, we may be forced to divert resources from the development of new products, the pursuit of regulatory approvals and other working capital needs in order to satisfy such claims. The loss of key personnel or the inability of replacements to quickly and successfully perform in their new roles could adversely affect our business. All of our existing personnel, including our executive officers, are employed on an “at-will” basis. If we lose or terminate the services of one or more of our current executives or key employees or if one or more of our current or former executives or key employees joins a competitor or otherwise competes with us, it could impair our business and our ability to successfully implement our business plan. Additionally, if we are unable to timely hire qualified replacements for our executive and other key positions, our ability to execute our business plan would be harmed. Even if we can timely hire qualified replacements, we would expect to experience operational disruptions and inefficiencies during any transition. If we fail to manage our growth, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have reduced our operating expenses and significantly reduced the number of employees, placing significant demands on our operational and financial infrastructure. If we do not effectively manage our growth, our ability to develop and market the PokerPro system could suffer, which could negatively affect our operating results. Our success will depend on the reliability and performance of third-party distributors, manufacturers and suppliers. We compete with other companies for the production capacity of third-party suppliers for components. Certain of these competing companies have substantially greater financial and other resources than we have and thus we may be at a competitive disadvantage in seeking to procure production capacity. Our inability to contract with third-party manufacturers and suppliers to provide a sufficient supply of our products on acceptable terms and on a timely basis could negatively impact our relationships with existing customers and cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities with potential customers. We also rely on operators and distributors to market and distribute our products, and we rely on casino customers to operate poker rooms. If our operators or distributors are unsuccessful, we may miss revenue-generating opportunities that might have been recognized 12 Our failure to obtain any necessary additional financing would have a material adverse effect on our business. In order to execute our business plan, we may need to seek additional equity or debt financing. We may not be able to obtain such additional equity or debt financing when we need it or at all. Even if such financing is available, it may not be available on terms that are favorable to us or in sufficient amounts to satisfy our requirements. If we require, but are unable to obtain, sufficient additional financing in the future we may be unable to further protect our intellectual property sufficiently, meet customer demand or withstand adverse operating results. More importantly, if we are unable to raise further financing when required, our continued operations may have to be scaled down or even terminated and our ability to generate revenues would be negatively affected. Enforcement of remedies or contracts against Native American tribes could be difficult. Contracts with Native American tribes are subject to sovereign immunity and tribal jurisdiction. If a dispute arises with respect to any of those agreements, it could be difficult for us to protect our rights. Native American tribes generally enjoy sovereign immunity from suit similar to that enjoyed by individual states and the United States. In order to sue a Native American tribe (or an agency or instrumentality of a Native American tribe), the tribe must have effectively waived its sovereign immunity with respect to the matter in dispute. Moreover, even if a Native American tribe were to waive sovereign immunity, such waiver may not be valid and in the absence of an effective waiver of sovereign immunity by a Native American tribe, we could be precluded from judicially enforcing any rights or remedies against that tribe. Change in business strategies could adversely impact market success or financial performance. We recently changed our strategic focus from traditional North American poker markets to a more international focus. The product may not be successful in those markets and operating in foreign countries carries additional operational, regulatory and currency risk than traditional U.S. markets. If we are unsuccessful in those markets, or incur significant additional expenses to operate in those markets, our financial results could be negatively affected. The concentration of our common stock ownership by our founders will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. Our board members and corporate officers combined own approximately 39.7% of our common stock and therefore have significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of our company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters and, as a result, we may take actions that some of our shareholders do not view as beneficial. In addition, such concentrated control could discourage others from initiating changes of control. As a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. Our Board of Directors’ ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock and any anti-takeover provisions we adopt may depress the value of our common stock. Our authorized capital includes 5,000,000 shares of “blank check” preferred stock. Our Board of Directors has the power to issue any or all of the shares of such preferred stock, including the authority to establish one or more series and to fix the powers, preferences, rights and limitations of such class or series, without seeking shareholder approval, subject to certain limitations on this power under the listing requirements of the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. We may, in the future, consider adopting certain other anti-takeover measures. The authority of our Board of Directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock and any future anti-takeover measures we may adopt may in certain circumstances delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of our company not approved by our Board of Dire ctors. As a result, our shareholders may lose opportunities to dispose of their shares at favorable prices generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal and the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of our shareholders may also be affected. There are certain limitations on ownership of five percent or more of our common stock and we will have the right to redeem your shares of common stock if your ownership jeopardizes any regulatory certifications, licenses or approvals we hold. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation provide that no person or entity may become the beneficial owner of 5% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock unless such person or entity agrees to provide personal background and financial information to, consent to a background investigation by and respond to questions from the applicable gaming authorities in any jurisdiction in which we do business or desire to do business. Our Restated Articles of Incorporation also provides that we may redeem any or all shares of common stock held by any person or entity whose status as a shareholder, in the opinion of our Board of Directors, jeopardizes the approval, continued existence or renewal of any regulatory approval we hold. The amount that we will pay for such redeemed shares will equal the highest closing price of our common stock, as reported on the NASDAQ Capital Market or other exchange or quotation service on which our common stock is then listed or quoted, during the 30 days immediately preceding the date on which notice of redemption is given. This provision may force you to sell your shares of common stock before you would choose to do so and may cause you to realize a loss on your investment. 13 Our common stock price has been volatile. Fluctuations in our stock price could impair our ability to raise capital and make an investment in our securities undesirable. Historically, the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. We believe factors such as the market’s acceptance of our products and the performance of our business relative to market expectations, as well as general volatility in the securities markets, could cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations, resulting in changes in the market prices of the stock of many companies, which may not have been directly related to the operating performance of those companies. Fluctuations in our stock price could impair our ability to raise capital and make an investment in our securities undesirable. During the one year period ending December 31, 2010, the closing price of our common stock as quoted on the NASDAQ Cap ital Market ranged from a low of $1.00 to a high of $3.90. Over the last year, our shares of Common Stock were at risk of being delisted by NASDAQ from trading since they traded at less than $1.00 per share. Over the last year, our shares have traded below the minimum bid price required for continued listing on NASDAQ. If we do not ultimately increase our stock price above $1.00 per share and maintain all other listing conditions, we could be required to take certain actions to remain listed. If unsuccessful, our common stock could be delisted and transferred to the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board quotation service. On March 23, 2010, we received a letter from NASDAQ’s Listing Qualifications Department dated March 16, 2010 that stated that the Staff had made a determination that our common stock would be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. The determination was based on the fact that the bid price of our common stock had not closed above $1.00 for a consecutive period of ten days during the preceding 180 days. We appealed the Staff’s determination to a Hearing Panel and presented its plan to regain compliance. On May 10, 2010, we received notification from NASDAQ indicating that the Company’s shares had traded above the minimum bid price requirement for ten consecutive days and we were compliant with the applicable listing requirement for the NASDAQ Capital Market. On July 1, 2010, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that the closing bid price of its common stock had fallen below $1.00 for the 30 consecutive business days from May 19, 2010 to June 20, 2010, and therefore, we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) as of July 1, 2010. NASDAQ provided an automatic 180 day grace period, through December 28, 2010, to regain compliance with the Bid Price Rule by maintaining a closing bid price of $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. On December 30, 2010, we received a letter from the NASDAQ Listings Qualifications Department which indicated that a Staff Determination had been made to the effect that our common stock would be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market since we have not regained compliance with the Rule during the 180 day period. The bid price of our common stock did not close above $1.00 for a 10-day period between July 1, 2010 and December 28, 2010. We appealed the Staff’s determination to a Hearing Panel and presented its plan to regain compliance which included a reverse stock split. As of February 25, 2011, we implemented a 1 for 2.5 reverse stock split to increase the bid price of our common stock (see note 17 – “Subsequent Events”). Following the reverse stock split, our shares have closed above the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement; however the hearings panel has elected to exercise its discretion to require trading above $1.00 in excess of ten trading days before determining compliance. NASDAQ also requires listed companies to maintain a minimum shareholder’s equity balance of $2.5 million. As of December 31, 2010, our shareholder’s equity was $2.8 million, which is in compliance with the NASDAQ requirement. However, we have a historyof net losses and the hearings panel has requested additional information to aid in assessing our long-term compliance plans with regard to the minimum bid price, shareholder’s equity and other listing requirements, before determining compliance. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 