ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Operations You should carefully consider the following risks, together with the cautionary statement under the caption “forward-looking statements” and the other information included in this report. The risks described below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks that are currently unknown to the Company or that the Company currently considers to be immaterial may also impair its business or adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operation could be adversely affected. The Company’s business is affected by the cyclical nature of its markets. The demand for the Company’s products depends upon the general economic conditions of the markets in which the Company competes. The Company’s sales depend in part upon its customers’ replacement or repair cycles. Adverse economic conditions, including a decrease in commodity prices, may cause customers to forego or postpone new purchases in favor of repairing existing machinery. Downward economic cycles may result in reductions in sales of the Company’s products, which may reduce the Company’s profits. The Company has taken a number of steps to reduce its fixed costs and diversify its operations to decrease the negative impact of these cycles. There can be no assurance, however, that these steps will prevent the negative impact of poor economic conditions. The Company’s business is sensitive to increases in interest rates. The Company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to future issuances of fixed rate debt and existing issuances of variable rate debt. Primary exposure includes movements in the U.S. prime rate. In addition, while overall economic growth has slowed, business investment and manufacturing continue to perform strongly. If interest rates continue to rise, it becomes more costly for the Company’s customers to borrow money to pay for the equipment they buy from the Company. Should the U. S. Federal Reserve Board decide to increase rates, prospects for business investment and manufacturing could deteriorate sufficiently and impact sales opportunities. The Company’s level of indebtedness reduces financial flexibility and could impede our ability to operate. As of December 31, 2006, the Company’s long term debt was $36.1 million and includes: a line of credit, notes payable and capital lease obligations. 17 Table of Contents Our level of debt affects our operations in several important ways, including the following: • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations is likely to be dedicated to the payment of the principal and interest on our indebtedness; • our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; • we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness on terms acceptable to us or at all; • our cash flow may be insufficient to meet our required principal and interest payments; and • we may be unable to obtain additional loans as a result of covenants and agreements with existing debt holders. The Company may require additional funding, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on the amount of cash generated by our operations. Our projections of cash flow from operations and, consequently, future cash needs are subject to substantial uncertainty. The Company is actively seeking additional sources of capital and seeking to restructure and/or modify existing indebtedness. The amount of funding that we seek and the timing of such fundraising efforts will depend on the extent to which we are able to increase revenues and the extent to which we can restructure or modify our debt. We cannot guarantee that adequate funds will be available when needed, and if we do not receive sufficient capital, we may be required to alter or reduce the scope of our operations. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, existing stockholders may be diluted. The Lifting Equipment segment of our business is substantially dependent on the level of capital expenditures in the oil and gas industry and lower capital expenditures will adversely affect the results of its’ operations. The demand for the equipment produced and sold by our Lifting Equipment segment depends on the condition of the oil and gas industry and, in particular, on the capital expenditures of companies engaged in the exploration, development, and production of oil and natural gas. Capital expenditures by these companies are influenced by the following factors: • the oil and gas industry’s ability to economically justify placing discoveries of oil and gas reserves in production; • the oil and gas industry’s need to clear all structures from the lease once the oil and gas reserves have been depleted; • weather events, such as major tropical storms; • current and projected oil and gas prices; • the abilities of oil and gas companies to generate, access and deploy capital; • exploration, production and transportation costs; • the discovery rate of new oil and gas reserves; • the sale and expiration dates of oil and gas leases and concessions; • local and international political and economic conditions; • the ability or willingness of host country government entities to fund their budgetary commitments; and • technological advances. Historically, prices of oil and natural gas and exploration, development and production have fluctuated substantially. A sustained period of substantially reduced capital expenditures by oil and gas companies will 18 Table of Contents result in decreased demand for the equipment produced by our Lifting Equipment segment, low margins, and possibly net losses. If we are unable to realize the value of our receivable from GT Distribution, it could adversely affect our financial condition. In connection with our purchase of the membership interests of QVM, LLC, we acquired a receivable from GT Distribution, LLC, an entity that is owned, in part, by our Chief Executive Officer. The outstanding balance on such receivable was approximately $4.7 million as of December 31, 2006. As of March 30, 2007, GT Distribution had liabilities that substantially exceeded its assets (see Note 3 to our consolidated statements). On March 29, 2007, we entered into a non-binding letter of intent to purchase all of the assets constituting the Noble Fork Lift product line of GT Distribution, LLC in exchange for the Company’s carrying amount of its accounts receivable from GT Distribution as of the closing. The consummation of the transaction is subject to, among other things, negotiation of a definitive agreement, the Company’s completion of due diligence regarding the assets, and the Company’s receipt of a fairness opinion on the terms and conditions of any final agreement as it relates to the transaction. There is no assurance that the Company will consummate the acquisition of the Noble Fork Lift product line or that such acquisition will allow the Company to realize the full value of its receivable, if consummated. If the Company is unable to consummate the acquisition on acceptable terms, it may not realize full value of its receivable from GT Distribution, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. The Company’s business is sensitive to government spending. Many of the Company’s customers depend substantially on government spending, including highway construction and maintenance and other infrastructure projects by U.S. federal and state governments and governments in other nations. Any decrease or delay in government funding of highway construction and maintenance, other infrastructure projects could cause the Company’s revenues and profits to decrease. The Company is subject to currency fluctuations. Company revenues are generated in U.S. dollars and Canadian dollars while costs incurred to generate revenues are only partly incurred in the same currencies. Since our financial statements are denominated in U.S. Dollars, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our earnings. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and the Company is particularly subject to the risks of such competition. The Company competes in a highly competitive industry and the competition which the Company encounters has an effect on its product prices, market share, revenues and profitability. Because certain competitors have substantially greater financial, production, research and development resources and substantially greater name recognition than the Company, the Company is particularly subject to the risks inherent in competing with them and may be put at a competitive disadvantage. To compete successfully, the Company’s products must excel in terms of quality, price, product line, ease of use, safety and comfort, and the Company must also provide excellent customer service. The greater financial resources of the Company’s competitors may put it at a competitive disadvantage. If competition in the Company’s industry intensifies or if the Company’s current competitors enhance their products or lower their prices for competing products, the Company may lose sales or be required to lower its prices. This may reduce revenue from the Company’s products and services lower its gross margins or cause the Company to lose market share. The Company may not be able to differentiate our products from those of competitors, successfully develop or introduce less costly products, offer better performance than competitors or offer purchasers of our products payment and other commercial terms as favorable as those offered by competitors. 19 Table of Contents The Company relies on key management. The Company relies on the management and leadership skills of David Langevin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”). Mr. Langevin has a three year employment agreement with the Company which expires on December 31, 2008. The loss of his services could have a significant and negative impact on the Company’s business. In addition, the Company relies on the management and leadership skills of other senior executives. Some of these executives are not bound by employment agreements. The Company could be harmed by the loss of key personnel in the future. The Company is dependent upon third-party suppliers, making us vulnerable to supply shortages. The Company obtains materials and manufactured components from third-party suppliers. Any delay in the Company’s suppliers’ abilities to provide the Company with necessary materials and components may affect the Company’s capabilities at a number of our manufacturing locations, or may require the Company to seek alternative supply sources. Delays in obtaining supplies may result from a number of factors affecting the Company’s suppliers including capacity constraints, labor disputes, the impaired financial condition of a particular supplier, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, weather emergencies or acts of war or terrorism. Specifically, the Company has recently had difficulty in obtaining some necessary components. Any delay in receiving supplies could impair the Company’s ability to deliver products to customers and, accordingly, could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Company purchases material and services from suppliers on extended terms based on the Company’s overall credit rating. Negative changes in the Company’s credit rating may impact suppliers’ willingness to extend terms and increase the cash requirements of the business. The Company has debt outstanding and must comply with restrictive covenants in its debt agreements. The Company’s existing debt agreements contain a number of significant covenants which may limit its ability to, among other things, borrow additional money, make capital expenditures, pay dividends, dispose of assets and acquire new businesses. These covenants also require the Company to meet certain financial tests. The Company is currently in compliance with all active covenants. A default, if not waived by the Company’s lenders, could result in acceleration of the Company’s debt and possibly bankruptcy. The Company faces product liability claims and other liabilities due to the nature of its business. In the Company’s lines of business numerous suits have been filed alleging damages for accidents that have occurred during the use or operation of the Company’s products. The Company is self-insured, up to certain limits, for these product liability exposures, as well as for certain exposures related to general, workers’ compensation and automobile liability. Insurance coverage is obtained for catastrophic losses as well as those risks required to be insured by law or contract. The Company does not believe that the final outcome of such matters will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position; however any liabilities not covered by insurance could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. The Company is in the process of implementing an enterprise accounting system. The Company has begun the implementation of a new enterprise accounting system. This system will replace many of the Company’s existing operating and financial systems. The implementation of this system is a major undertaking both financially and from a management and personnel perspective. Should the system not be implemented successfully and within budget, or if the system does not perform in a satisfactory manner, it could be disruptive and or adversely affect the operations and results of operations of the Company, including the ability of the Company to report accurate and timely financial results. The Company may face limitations on its ability to integrate acquired businesses. The Company has completed two acquisitions. The successful integration of new businesses depends on the Company’s ability to manage these new businesses and cut excess costs. While the Company believes it has 20 Table of Contents successfully integrated these acquisitions to date, the Company cannot ensure that these acquired companies will operate profitably or that the intended beneficial effect from these acquisitions will be realized. Further, in connection with acquisitions, the Company may need to consolidate or restructure its acquired or existing facilities, which may require expenditures for severance obligations related to reductions in workforce and other charges resulting from the consolidations or restructurings, such as write-down of inventory and lease termination costs. If the Company is unable to manage anticipated growth effectively, the business could be harmed. If the Company fails to manage growth, the Company’s financial results and business prospects may be harmed. To manage the Company’s growth and to execute its business plan efficiently, the Company will need to institute operational, financial and management controls, as well as reporting systems and procedures. The Company also must effectively expand, train and manage its employee base. The Company cannot assure you that it will be successful in any of these endeavors. Other companies might claim that the Company infringes their intellectual property rights, which could cause the Company to incur significant expenses or prevent the Company from selling its technology. Although the Company is not aware of any claims that it infringes anyone’s intellectual property rights, the Company’s success depends, in part, on our ability to operate without infringing valid, enforceable patents or proprietary rights of third parties or breaching any licenses that may relate to our technology and products. Future patents issued to third parties, however, could contain claims that conflict with the Company’s patents and that compete with its products and technologies, and third parties could assert infringement claims against the Company. Any litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of their outcome, may be costly and may require significant time and attention of the Company’s management and technical personnel. Litigation or interference proceedings could also force us to: • stop or delay using the Company’s technology; • stop or delay the Company’s customers from selling, manufacturing or using products that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; • pay damages; or • enter into licensing or royalty agreements that may be unavailable on acceptable terms. Any of these events could have adverse effects on the Company’s results of operations and could damage the Company’s business. The Company may be unable to effectively respond to technological change, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and business. The market for the Company’s products is characterized by rapidly changing technology. The Company’s future success will depend upon the Company’s ability to enhance its current products and to develop and introduce new products that keep pace with technological developments and evolving industry standards and respond to changes in customer requirements. If the Company fails to anticipate or respond adequately to technological developments and customer requirements, or experiences significant delays in product development or introduction, the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition will be negatively affected. Risks Relating to our Common Stock The Company’s principal shareholders, executive officers and directors hold a significant percentage of the Company’s common stock, and these shareholders may take actions that may be adverse to your interests. The Company’s principal shareholders, executive officers and directors beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 21% of the Company’s common stock as of March 24, 2007. As a result, these shareholders, 21 Table of Contents acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions such as mergers, consolidations, sales and purchases of assets. They also could dictate the management of the Company’s business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination, which could cause the market price of our common stock to fall or prevent you from receiving a premium in such a transaction. The price of our common stock is highly volatile. The trading price of the Company’s common stock is highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, including: • the degree to which the Company successfully implements its business strategy; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly or annual operating results; • changes in recommendations by the investment community or in their estimates of the Company’s revenues or operating results; • speculation in the press or investment community; • strategic actions by the Company’s competitors; • announcements of technological innovations or new products by the Company or competitors; and • changes in business conditions affecting the Company and its customers. The market prices of securities of companies without consistent product revenues and earnings have historically been highly volatile. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, class action litigation has often been brought against the company. If a securities class action suit is filed against the Company, whether or not meritorious, the Company would incur substantial legal fees and the Company’s management’s attention and resources would be diverted from operating the business in order to respond to the litigation. Future sales of our common stock could depress our stock price. Sales of a large number of shares of the Company’s common stock, or the availability of a large number of shares for sale, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock and could impair the Company’s ability to raise funds in additional stock offerings. Approximately 5,109,875 of the Company’s shares are eligible for sale in the public market, approximately 3,805,984 of which are subject to applicable volume limitations and other restrictions set forth in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Anti-takeover provisions of the Company’s Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws and provisions of Michigan law could delay or prevent a change of control that you may favor. The Company’s Articles of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws and Michigan law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be beneficial to you. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s shares. Because of these provisions, you might not be able to receive a premium on your investment. These provisions: • authorize the Company’s Board of Directors, with approval by a majority of its independent Directors but without requiring shareholder consent, to issue shares of “blank check” preferred stock that could be issued by the Company’s Board of Directors to increase the number of outstanding shares and prevent a takeover attempt; • limit our shareholders’ ability to call a special meeting of the Company’s shareholders; and • limit the Company’s shareholders’ ability to amend, alter or repeal the Company bylaws. 22 Table of Contents Any of the provisions described above could delay or make more difficult transactions involving a change in control of the Company or its management ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS No reportable items. 