Item 1A. Risk Factors. In analyzing whether to make or to continue an investment in our securities, investors should consider, among other factors, the following risk factors. Our business may be adversely affected by downturns in the local economies on which we depend or by natural disasters occurring in our market area that could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 37 Our business is directly affected by market conditions, trends in industry and finance, legislative and regulatory changes, and changes in governmental monetary and fiscal policies and inflation, all of which are beyond our control. In 2007, the housing and real estate sectors experienced an economic slowdown that has continued into 2008. A sustained weakness or weakening in business and economic conditions generally or specifically in the principal markets in which we do business could have one or more of the following adverse impacts on our business: ● A decrease in the demand for loans and other products and services offered by us; ● An increase or decrease in the usage of unfunded commitments; or ● An increase in the number of our customers and counterparties who become delinquent, file for protection under bankruptcy laws or default on their loans or other obligations to us. An increase in the number of delinquencies, bankruptcies or defaults could result in a higher level of nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, provision for loan losses. FDIC insurance premiums may increase materially. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including Prudential Bancorp, Inc. of Pennsylvania. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at a certain level. Current economic conditions have increased bank failures and expectations for further failures, in which case the FDIC ensures payments of deposits up to insured limits from the Deposit Insurance Fund. In December 2008, the FDIC adopted a rule that would increase premiums paid by insured institutions and make other changes to the assessment system. Increases in deposit insurance premiums could adversely affect our net income. Concern of customers over deposit insurance may cause a decrease in deposits at the Company. With recent increased concerns about bank failures, customers increasingly are concerned about the extent to which their deposits are insured by the FDIC. Customers may withdraw deposits from the Company in an effort to ensure that the amount they have on deposit at Prudential Savings Bank is fully insured. Decreases in deposits may adversely affect our funding costs and net income. We may suffer losses in our loan portfolio despite our underwriting practices. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. Our Portfolio of Loans With a Higher Risk of Loss Is Increasing In recent years, we have increased our originations or purchases of construction and land development loans. These loans have a higher risk of default and loss than single-family residential mortgage loans. Construction and land development loans total $42.6 million, or 16.5% of total loans as of September 30, 2008. Construction and land development loans generally have a higher risk of loss than single-family residential mortgage loans. The risk of loss on construction and land development loans depends largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction compared to the estimated cost, including interest, of construction and other assumptions. Furthermore, if the estimates of value prove to be inaccurate, we can be confronted with projects, when completed, having values less than the loan amounts. In addition, such loans have significantly higher average loan balances compared to single-family residential mortgage loans. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or credit relationship could expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a single-family residential mortgage loan. We may also be required to increase our allowance for loan losses both due to actual losses or the increase in the estimated loss inherent in our portfolio which would reduce our net income. We have also originated or committed to originate substantially larger construction loans in recent periods and our portfolio of such loans is not seasoned. 38 Downturns in the real estate markets in our primary market area could adversely impact our business. Our business activities and credit exposure are primarily concentrated in our primary market area of the Philadelphia Metropolitan area. Our residential loan portfolio, our commercial real estate and multi-family loan portfolio and a certain number of our other loans have been affected by the downturn in the residential real estate market. We anticipate that further declines in the real estate markets in our primary market area will hurt our business. As of September 30, 2008, substantially all of our loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by real estate located in Pennsylvania and Southern New Jersey. If real estate values continue to decline the collateral for our loans will provide less security. As a result, our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the underlying real estate will be diminished, and we would be more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. The events and conditions described in this risk factor could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings will decrease. Like all financial institutions, every loan we make carries a risk that it will not be repaid in accordance with its terms or that any collateral securing it will not be sufficient to assure repayment. This risk is affected by, among other things: ● Cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; ● In the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; ● The credit history of a particular borrower; ● Changes in economic and industry conditions; and ● The duration of the loan. Regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review our loans and allowance for loan losses. Although we believe our loan loss allowance is adequate to absorb probable losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot predict these losses or whether our allowance will be adequate or that regulators will not require us to increase this allowance. Any of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects and profitability. We may be required to make further increases in our provisions for loan losses and to charge off additional loans in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We seek to mitigate the risks inherent in our loan portfolio by adhering to specific underwriting practices. Although we believe that our underwriting criteria are appropriate for the various kinds of loans we make, we may incur losses on loans that meet our underwriting criteria, and these losses may exceed the amounts set aside as reserves in our allowance for loan losses. We are exposed to credit risk in our lending activities. There are inherent risks associated with our lending and trading activities. Loans to individuals and business entities, our single largest asset group, depend for repayment on the willingness and ability of borrowers to perform as contracted. A material adverse change in the ability of a significant portion of our borrowers to meet their obligation to us, due to changes in economic conditions, interest rates, natural disaster, acts of war, or other causes over which we have no control, could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans, and could have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. 39 Changes in interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our operations. The operations of financial institutions such as ours are dependent to a large extent on net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Changes in the general level of interest rates can affect our net interest income by affecting the difference between the weighted average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the weighted average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities, or interest rate spread, and the average life of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Changes in interest rates also can affect our ability to originate loans; the value of our interest-earning assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of such assets; our ability to obtain and retain deposits in competition with other available investment alternatives; and the ability of our borrowers to repay adjustable or variable rate loans. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Although we believe that the estimated maturities of our interest-earning assets currently are well balanced in relation to the estimated maturities of our interest-bearing liabilities (which involves various estimates as to how changes in the general level of interest rates will impact these assets and liabilities), there can be no assurance that our profitability would not be adversely affected during any period of changes in interest rates. We are subject to extensive regulation which could adversely affect our business and operations. We and our subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal and state governmental supervision and regulation, which are intended primarily for the protection of depositors. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to changes in federal and state laws, as well as changes in regulations, governmental policies and accounting principles. The effects of any such potential changes cannot be predicted but could adversely affect the business and operations of us and our subsidiaries in the future. Our funding sources may prove insufficient to replace deposits and support our future growth. We rely on customer deposits and advances from the FHLB and other borrowings to fund our operations. Although we have historically been able to replace maturing deposits and advances if desired, no assurance can be given that we would be able to replace such funds in the future if our financial condition or the financial condition of the FHLB or market conditions were to change. Our financial flexibility will be severely constrained if we are unable to maintain our access to funding or if adequate financing is not available to accommodate future growth at acceptable interest rates. Finally, if we are required to rely more heavily on more expensive funding sources to support future growth, our revenues may not increase proportionately to cover our costs. In this case, our profitability would be adversely affected. Although we consider such sources of funds adequate for our liquidity needs as we have $247.4 million in additional borrowings available to us, we may seek additional higher-cost debt in the future to achieve our long-term business objectives in the event the FHLB borrowings were unavailable. Additional borrowings, if sought, may not be available to us or, if available, may not be available on favorable terms. If additional financing sources are unavailable or are not available on reasonable terms, our growth and future prospects could be adversely affected. 40 We face strong competition which may adversely affect our profitability. We are subject to vigorous competition in all aspects and areas of our business from banks and other financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, savings banks, finance companies, credit unions and other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies and insurance companies. We also compete with non-financial institutions, including retail stores that maintain their own credit programs and governmental agencies that make available low cost or guaranteed loans to certain borrowers. Certain of our competitors are larger financial institutions with substantially greater resources, lending limits, larger branch systems and a wider array of commercial banking services. Competition from both bank and non-bank organizations will continue. Our ability to successfully compete may be reduced if we are unable to make technological advances. The banking industry is experiencing rapid changes in technology. In addition to improving customer services, effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. As a result, our future success will depend in part on our ability to address our customers’ needs by using technology. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively develop new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products to our customers. Many of our competitors have far greater resources than we have to invest in technology. We and our banking subsidiary are subject to capital and other requirements which restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders may depend upon the dividends we receive from Prudential Savings Bank. Dividends paid by the Bank are subject to restrictions under Pennsylvania and federal laws and regulations. In addition, Prudential Savings Bank must maintain certain capital levels, which may restrict the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. Holders of our common stock have no preemptive rights and are subject to potential dilution. Our articles of incorporation do not provide any shareholder with a preemptive right to subscribe for additional shares of common stock upon any increase thereof. Thus, upon the issuance of any additional shares of common stock or other voting securities of Prudential Bancorp or securities convertible into common stock or other voting securities, shareholders may be unable to maintain their pro rata voting or ownership interest in us. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital as a result of a deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Should we be required by regulatory authorities to raise additional capital, we may seek to do so through the issuance of, among other things, our common stock or preferred stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. 41 Risks Related to the U.S. Financial Industry There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation and other measures undertaken by the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and other governmental agencies will help stabilize the U.S. financial system or improve the housing market. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”), which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”). EESA gives broad authority to Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other “troubled assets.” EESA includes additional provisions directed at bolstering the economy, including: ● Authority for the Federal Reserve to pay interest on depository institution balances ● Mortgage loss mitigation and homeowner protection ● Temporary increase in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 through December 31, 2009; and ● Authority to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) to suspend mark-to-market accounting requirements for any issuer or class of category of transactions. Pursuant to the TARP, the Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion (of which $250 billion is currently available) of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Shortly following the enactment of EESA, the Treasury created a capital purchase program, pursuant to which it is providing access to capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions that will serve as Tier I capital. EESA also contains a number of significant employee benefit and executive compensation provisions, some of which apply to employee benefit plans generally, and others which impose on financial institutions that participate in the TARP program restrictions on executive compensation. EESA followed, and has been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, Congress, Treasury, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime meltdown that commenced in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourage loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate, including two 50 basis point decreases in October of 2008; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has issued an unprecedented wave of guidance in response to the credit crisis, including a relaxation of limits on the ability of financial institutions that undergo an “ownership change” to utilize their pre-change net operating losses and net unrealized built-in losses. The relaxation of these limits may make significantly more attractive the acquisition of financial institutions whose tax basis in their loan portfolios significantly exceeds the fair market value of those portfolios. 42 On October 14, 2008, the FDIC announced the establishment of a temporary liquidity guarantee program to provide full deposit insurance for all non-interest bearing transaction accounts and guarantees of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by FDIC-insured institutions and their holding companies. Insured institutions are automatically covered by this program for the period commencing October 14, 2008 and will continue to be covered as long as they do not opt out of the program by December 5, 2008. Under the program, the FDIC will guarantee timely payment of newly issued senior unsecured debt issued on or before June 30, 2009. The debt includes all newly issued unsecured senior debt (e.g., promissory notes, commercial paper and inter-bank funding). The aggregate coverage for an institution may not exceed 125% of its debt outstanding on September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature before June 30, 2009, or, for certain insured institutions, 2% of liabilities as of September 30, 2008. The guarantee will extend to June 30, 2012 even if the maturity of the debt is after that date. First Federal will participate in the transaction account guarantee program and has opted out of the debt guarantee program. The actual impact that EESA and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced, is unknown. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Finally, there can be no assurance regarding the specific impact that such measures may have on us—or whether (or to what extent) we will be able to benefit from such programs. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. We are particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and securities and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, major commercial and investment banks, and regional financial institutions such as our Company. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: ● We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. ● Our ability to assess the creditworthiness of our customers may be impaired if the models and approaches we use to select, manage and underwrite our customers become less predictive of future behaviors. ● The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic predictions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. 43 ● Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. ● Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. ● We may be required to pay significantly higher deposit insurance premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, our ability to access capital may be adversely affected which, in turn, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulation by federal and state agencies could adversely affect the business, revenue and profit margins. We are heavily regulated by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. This regulation is to protect depositors, the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund and the banking system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect us adversely, including limiting the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increasing the ability of nonbanks to offer competing financial services and products. Also, if we do not comply with laws, regulations, or policies, we could receive regulatory sanctions and damage to our reputation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 44 Item 