Item 1A. RISK FACTORS The investment in our company has a high degree of risk. Before you invest you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information in this prospectus. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed and the value of our stock could go down. This means you could lose all or a part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our home sales and operating revenues could decline due to macro-economic and other factors outside of our control, such as changes in consumer confidence and declines in employment levels. Changes in national and regional economic conditions, as well as local economic conditions where the Company conducts our operations and where prospective purchasers of our homes live, may result in more caution on the part of homebuyers and consequently fewer home purchases. These economic uncertainties involve, among other things, conditions of supply and demand in local markets and changes in consumer confidence and income, employment levels, and government regulations. These risks and uncertainties could periodically have an adverse effect on consumer demand for and the pricing of our homes, which could cause our operating revenues to decline. In addition, builders are subject to various risks, many of them outside the control of the homebuilder including competitive overbuilding, availability and cost of building lots, materials and labor, adverse weather conditions which can cause delays in construction schedules, cost overruns, changes in government regulations, and increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees. A reduction in our revenues could in turn negatively affect the market price of our securities. An increase in mortgage interest rates or unavailability of mortgage financing may reduce consumer demand for the Company’s homes. 14 Virtually all purchasers of our homes finance their acquisitions through lenders providing mortgage financing. A substantial increase in mortgage interest rates or unavailability of mortgage financing would adversely affect the ability of prospective homebuyers to obtain the financing they would need in order to purchase our homes, as well as adversely affect the ability of prospective move-up homebuyers to sell their current homes. For example, if mortgage financing became less available, demand for our homes could decline. A reduction in demand could also have an adverse effect on the pricing of our homes because we and our competitors may reduce prices in an effort to better compete for home buyers. A reduction in pricing could result in a decline in revenues and in our margins. We could experience a reduction in home sales and revenues or reduced cash flows if we are unable to obtain reasonably priced financing to support our homebuilding and land development activities. The real estate development industry is capital intensive, and development requires significant up-front expenditures to acquire land and begin development. Accordingly, we incur substantial indebtedness to finance our homebuilding and land development activities. Although we believe that internally generated funds and current borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our capital and other expenditures (including land acquisition, development and construction activities), the amounts available from such sources may not be adequate to meet our needs. If such sources are not sufficient, we would seek additional capital in the form of debt or equity financing from a variety of potential sources, including bank financing and/or securities offerings. The availability of borrowed funds, to be utilized for land acquisition, development and construction, may be greatly reduced, and the lending community may require increased amounts of equity to be invested in a project by borrowers in connection with new loans. The failure to obtain sufficient capital to fund our planned capital and other expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to extensive government regulation which could cause it to incur significant liabilities or restrict it business activities. Regulatory requirements could cause us to incur significant liabilities and operating expenses and could restrict our business activities. We are subject to statutes and rules regulating, among other things, certain developmental matters, building and site design, and matters concerning the protection of health and the environment. Our operating expenses may be increased by governmental regulations such as building permit allocation ordinances and other fees and taxes, which may be imposed to defray the cost of providing certain governmental services and improvements. Any delay or refusal from government agencies to grant us necessary licenses, permour and approvals could have an adverse effect on our operations. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including industry and market conditions, our ability to successfully implement our new branding and marketing initiative and expansion of our production capabilities. We anticipate that we may need to raise additional funds in order to grow our business and implement our business strategy. We anticipate that any such additional funds would be raised through equity or debt financings. In addition, we may enter into a revolving credit facility or a term loan facility with one or more syndicates of lenders. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Even if we are able to raise capital through equity or debt financings, as to which there can be no assurance, the interest of existing shareholders in our company may be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock or may otherwise materially and adversely effect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, we may not be able to fully implement our business strategy, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” In addition, we have and will continue to raise additional capital through private placements or registered offerings, in which broker-dealers will be engaged. The activities of such broker-dealers are highly regulated and we cannot assure that the activities of such broker-dealers will not violate relevant regulations and generate liabilities despite our expectation otherwise. 15 We depend on the availability of additional human resources for future growth. We are currently experiencing a period of significant growth in our sales volume. We believe that continued expansion is essential for us to remain competitive and to capitalize on the growth potential of our business. Such expansion may place a significant strain on our management and operations and financial resources. As our operations continue to grow, we will have to continually improve our management, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and other resources infrastructure, and expand our workforce. There can be no assurance that our existing or future management, operating and financial systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our operations, or that we will be able to recruit, retain and motivate our personnel. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish, develop or maintain the business relationships beneficial to our operations, or to do so or to implement any of the above activities in a timely manner. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of our operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by the fluctuation in raw material prices and selling prices of our products. Our projects and the raw materials we use have experienced significant price fluctuations in the past. There is no assurance that they will not be subject to future price fluctuations or pricing control. The land and raw materials we use may experience price volatility caused by events such as market fluctuations or changes in governmental programs. The market price of land and raw materials may also experience significant upward adjustment, if, for instance, there is a material under-supply or over-demand in the market. These price changes may ultimately result in increases in the selling prices of our products, and may, in turn, adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and operating profit. We could be adversely affected by the occurrence of natural disasters. From time to time, our developed sites may experience strong winds, storms, flooding and earth quakes. Natural disasters could impede operations, damage infrastructure necessary to our constructions and operations. The occurrence of natural disasters could adversely affect our business, the results of our operations, prospects and financial condition, even though we currently have insurance against damages caused by natural disasters, including typhoons, accidents or similar events. Intense competition from existing and new entities may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In general, the property development industry is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. We compete with various companies. Many of our competitors are more established than we are and have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we presently possess. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and a larger customer base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We intend to create greater awareness for our brand name so that we can successfully compete with our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively or successfully with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. Our operating subsidiary must comply with environmental protection laws that could adversely affect our profitability. We are required to comply with the environmental protection laws and regulations promulgated by the national and local governments of the People’s Republic of China (PRC or China). Some of these regulations govern the level of fees payable to government entities providing environmental protection services and the prescribed standards relating to the constructions. Although our construction technologies allow us to efficiently control the level of pollution resulting from our construction process, due to the nature of our business, waste are unavoidably generated in the processes. If we fail to comply with any of these environmental laws and regulations in the PRC, depending on the types and seriousness of the violation, we may be subject to, among other things, warning from relevant authorities, imposition of fines, specific performance and/or criminal liability, forfeiture of profour made, being ordered to close down our business operations and suspension of relevant permour. 16 Our success depends on our management team and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. Our future success will depend in substantial part on the continued service of our senior management, including Mr. Lu Pingji, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Feng Xiaohong, our Chief Operational Officer. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could impede implementation of our business plan and result in reduced profitability. We do not carry key person life or other insurance in respect of any of our officers or employees. Our future success will also depend on the continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical sales and marketing customer support. Because of the rapid growth of the economy in the People’s Republic of China, competition for qualified personnel is intense. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain our key personnel or that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future. Risk Relating to the Residential Property Industry in China We are heavily dependent on the performance of the residential property market in China, which is at a relatively early development stage. The residential property industry in the PRC is still in a relatively early stage of development. Although demand for residential property in the PRC has been growing rapidly in recent years, such growth is often coupled with volatility in market conditions and fluctuation in property prices. It is extremely difficult to predict how much and when demand will develop, as many social, political, economic, legal and other factors, most of which are beyond our control, may affect the development of the market. The level of uncertainty is increased by the limited availability of accurate financial and market information as well as the overall low level of transparency in the PRC, especially in Tier II cities which have lagged in progress in these aspects when compared to Tier I cities. The lack of a liquid secondary market for residential property may discourage investors from acquiring new properties. The limited amount of property mortgage financing available to PRC individuals may further inhibit demand for residential developments. We face intense competition from other real estate developers. The property industry in the PRC is highly competitive. In the Tier II cities we focus on, local and regional property developers are our major competitors, and an increasing number of large state-owned and private national property developers have started entering these markets. Many of our competitors, especially the state-owned and private national property developers, are well capitalized and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Some also have larger land banks, greater economies of scale, broader name recognition, a longer track record and more established relationships in certain markets. In addition, the PRC government’s recent measures designed to reduce land supply further increased competition for land among property developers. Competition among property developers may result in increased costs for the acquisition of land for development, increased costs for raw materials, shortages of skilled contractors, oversupply of properties, decrease in property prices in certain parts of the PRC, a slowdown in the rate at which new property developments will be approved and/or reviewed by the relevant government authorities and an increase in administrative costs for hiring or retaining qualified personnel, any of which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Furthermore, property developers that are better capitalized than we are may be more competitive in acquiring land through the auction process. If we cannot respond to changes in market conditions as promptly and effectively as our competitors, or effectively compete for land acquisition through the auction systems and acquire other factors of production, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. In addition, risk of property over-supply is increasing in parts of China, where property investment, trading and speculation have become overly active. We are exposed to the risk that in the event of actual or perceived over-supply, property prices may fall drastically, and our revenue and profitability will be adversely affected. The PRC government may adopt further measures to curtail the overheating of the property sector. 17 Along with the economic growth in China, investments in the property sectors have increased significantly in the past few years. In response to concerns over the scale of the increase in property investments, the PRC government has introduced policies to curtail property development. We believe the following regulations, among others, significantly affect the property industry in China. In May 2006, the Ministry of Construction, National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, PBOC and other relevant PRC government authorities jointly issued the Opinions on Adjusting the Housing Supply Structure and Stabilizing the Property Prices, which introduced measures to limit resources allocated to the luxury residential market. For instance, the new measures require that at least 70 percent of a residential project must consist of units with a GFA of less than 90 square meters per unit, and the minimum amount of down payment was increased from 20 percent to 30 percent of the purchase price of the underlying property if it has a unit GFA of 90 square meters or more. In September 2007, PBOC and China Banking Regulatory Commission issued the Circular on Strengthening the Management of Commercial Real Estate Credit Facilities, which increased the minimum down payment for any purchase of second or subsequent residential property to 40 percent of the purchase price if the purchaser had obtained a bank loan to finance the purchase of his or her first property. In July 2006, the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry of Commerce, NDRC, PBOC, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce and SAFE issued Opinions on Regulating the Entry and Administration of Foreign Investment in Real Property Market, which impose significant requirements on foreign investment in the PRC real estate sector. For instance, these opinions set forth requirements of registered capital of a foreign invested real property enterprise as well as thresholds for a foreign invested real property enterprise to borrow domestic or overseas loans. In addition, since June 2007, a foreign invested real property enterprise approved by local authorities is required to register such approvals with the Ministry of Commerce. The PRC government’s restrictive regulations and measures to curtail the overheating of the property sector could increase our operating costs in adapting to these regulations and measures, limit our access to capital resources or even restrict our business operations. We cannot be certain that the PRC government will not issue additional and more stringent regulations or measures, which could further slow down property development in China and adversely affect our business and prospects. Our sales will be affected if mortgage financing becomes more costly or otherwise becomes less attractive. Substantially all purchasers of our residential properties rely on mortgages to fund their purchases. An increase in interest rates may significantly increase the cost of mortgage financing, thus affecting the affordability of residential properties. In 2007, PBOC raised the lending rates five times. The benchmark lending rate for loans with a term of over five years, which affects mortgage rates, has been increased to 7.83 percent. The PRC government and commercial banks may also increase the down payment requirement, impose other conditions or otherwise change the regulatory framework in a manner that would make mortgage financing unavailable or unattractive to potential property purchasers. Under current PRC laws and regulations, purchasers of residential properties generally must pay at least 20 percent of the purchase price of the properties before they can finance their purchases through mortgages. In May 2006, the PRC government increased the minimum amount of down payment to 30 percent of the purchase price of the underlying property if such property has a unit GFA of 90 square meters or more. In September 2007, the minimum down payment for any purchase of second or subsequent residential property was increased to 40 percent of the purchase price if the purchaser had obtained a bank loan to finance the purchase of his or her first property. Moreover, the interest rate for bank loans of such purchase shall not be less than 110 percent of the PBOC benchmark rate of the same term and category. For further purchases of properties, there would be upward adjustments on the minimum down payment and interest rate for any bank loan. In addition, mortgagee banks may not lend to any individual borrower if the monthly repayment of the anticipated mortgage loan would exceed 50 percent of the individual borrower’s monthly income or if the total debt service of the individual borrower would exceed 55 percent of such individual’s monthly income. If the availability or attractiveness of mortgage financing is reduced or limited, many of our prospective customers may not be able to purchase our properties and, as a result, our business, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. 18 In line with industry practice, we provide guarantees to PRC banks with respect to loans procured by the purchasers of our properties for the total amount of mortgage loans. Such guarantees expire upon the completion of the registration of the mortgage with the relevant mortgage registration authorities. If there are changes in laws, regulations, policies and practices that would prohibit property developers from providing guarantees to banks in respect of mortgages offered to property purchasers and as a result, banks would not accept any alternative guarantees by third parties, or if no third party is available or willing in the market to provide such guarantees, it may become more difficult for property purchasers to obtain mortgages from banks and other financial institutions during sales and pre-sales of our properties. Such difficulties in financing could result in a substantially lower rate of sale and pre-sale of our properties, which would adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. We are not aware of any impending changes in laws, regulations, policies or practices which will prohibit such practice in China. However, there can be no assurance that such changes in laws, regulations, policies or practices will not occur in China in the future. Risks Related to China China’s Economic Policies could affect our Business. Substantially all of our assets are located in the global change on ward China and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, such growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by the government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. The economy of China has been changing from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises; however, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, the control of payment of foreign currency- denominated obligations, the setting of monetary policy and the provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Capital outflow policies in China may hamper our ability to remit income to the United States. China has adopted currency and capital transfer regulations. These regulations may require us to comply with complex regulations for the movement of capital. Although our directors believe that it is currently in compliance with these regulations, should these regulations or the interpretation of them by courts or regulatory agencies change; we may not be able to remit all income earned and proceeds received in connection with our operations or from the sale of our operating subsidiary to our stockholders. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain sufficient foreign exchange to pay dividends or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future. It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of legal judgments upon our company and our officers and directors because some of them reside outside the United States. As our operations are presently based in China and some of our key directors and officers reside outside the United States, service of process on our key directors and officers may be difficult to effect within the United States. Also, substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States and any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be enforceable outside the United States. We have appointed Lu Pingji, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as our agent to receive service of process in any action against our company in the United States. 19 If relations between the United States and China worsen, our stock price may decrease and we may have difficulty accessing the U.S. capital markets. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade controversies between the United States and China could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to access U.S. capital markets. We may face obstacles from the communist system in China. Foreign companies conducting operations in China face significant political, economic and legal risks. The political system in China, including a cumbersome bureaucracy, may hinder Western investment. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in China. China historically has not adopted a Western style of management and financial reporting concepts and practices, modern banking, computer or other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. It will be extremely difficult to acquire jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors and assets based in China. Because the Company’s executive officers and directors, including, the chairman of it’s board of directors, are Chinese citizens, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to acquire jurisdiction over these persons in the event a lawsuit is initiated against us and/or our officers and directors by a stockholder or group of stockholders in the United States. Also, because the majority of our assets are located in China it would also be extremely difficult to access those assets to satisfy an award entered against it in a United States court. We may face judicial corruption in the People’s Republic of China. Another obstacle to foreign investment in the People’s Republic of China is corruption. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain recourse, if desired, through the People’s Republic of China’s poorly developed and sometimes corrupt judicial systems. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There is no assurance of an established public trading market, which would adversely affect the ability of investors in our company to sell their securities in the public markets. Although our common stock trades on the Over-the-Counter Bulleting Board (the OTCBB), a regular trading market for the securities may not be sustained in the future. The NASD has enacted recent changes that limit quotations on the OTCBB to securities of issuers that are current in their reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The effect on the OTCBB of these rule changes and other proposed changes cannot be determined at this time. The OTCBB is an inter-dealer, Over-The-Counter market that provides significantly less liquidity than the NASD’s automated quotation system (the NASDAQ Stock Market). Quotes for stocks included on the OTCBB are not listed in the financial sections of newspapers as are those for The Nasdaq Stock Market. Therefore, prices for securities traded solely on the OTCBB may be difficult to obtain and holders of common stock may be unable to resell their securities at or near their original offering price or at any price. Market prices for our common stock will be influenced by a number of factors, including: 20 • the issuance of new equity securities; • changes in interest rates; • competitive developments, including announcements by competitors of new products or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • variations in quarterly operating results; • change in financial estimates by securities analysts; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perceptions of our company and the technologies industries generally; and • general economic and other national conditions. The limited prior public market and trading market may cause volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on a limited basis on the OTCBB under the symbol “CHLN.” The quotation of our common stock on the OTCBB does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like us. Our common stock is thus subject to volatility. In the absence of an active trading market: • investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; • market visibility for our common stock may be limited; and • a lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market for our common stock. Our principal stockholders, current executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of our company and will be able to exercise significant influence over our company. Our executive officers and directors and principal stockholders together will beneficially own a majority of the total voting power of our outstanding voting capital stock. These stockholders will be able to determine the composition of our Board of Directors, will retain the voting power to approve all matters requiring stockholder approval and will continue to have significant influence over our affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on the market price of the common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market prices for their shares of common stock. See “Principal Stockholders” for information about the ownership of common by our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders. We do not anticipate paying dividends on the Common Stock. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Our directors intend to follow a policy of retaining all of our earnings, if any, to finance the development and expansion of our business. Our common stock could be considered to be a “penny stock.” Our common stock could be considered to be a “penny stock” if it meets one or more of the definitions in Rules 15g-2 through 15g-6 promulgated under Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These include but are not limited to the following: (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is NOT traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) it is NOT quoted on The Nasdaq Stock Market, or even if so, has a price less than $5.00 per share; or (iv) is issued by a company with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million, if in business more than a continuous three years, or with average revenues of less than $6.0 million for the past three years. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers cannot recommend the stock but must trade in it on an unsolicited basis. 21 Broker-dealer requirements may affect trading and liquidity. Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 15g-2 promulgated there under by the SEC require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Potential investors in our common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be “penny stock.” Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of our restricted stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act (Rule 144), subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a one-year holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1 percent of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permour, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitations, by a non-affiliate of our company that has satisfied a two-year holding period. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. 