ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks set forth below may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to the risks set forth below and the other risks described in Item 1, Business, Forward-Looking Statements, and Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, there may also be additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. As a result, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Changes in Market Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates because our assets, primarily loans, and our liabilities, primarily deposits, are monetary in nature. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates that are affected by many factors beyond our control, including 12 inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Our net interest income is affected not only by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, including credit risk spreads, and by balance sheet growth, customer loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables which themselves are impacted by changes in market interest rates. As a result, changes in market interest rates can significantly impact our net interest income as well as the fair market valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our Return on Stockholders’ Equity Will Continue to Be Low In the Near Future as a Result of the 2005 Subscription Offering Net income divided by average stockholders’ equity, known as return on equity, is a ratio that many investors use to compare the performance of a financial institution to its peers. Our capital remains relatively high by industry standards pending a more optimal deployment of the additional capital raised in our mutual-to-stock conversion. Until we can increase our net interest income and noninterest income, we expect our return on equity to continue to be below the industry average, which may negatively affect the value of our shares of common stock. Our Nonresidential Real Estate Loans, Multi-family Mortgage Loans, Construction and Land Loans, Commercial Loans and Commercial Leases Expose Us to Increased Credit Risks At December 31, 2005, our portfolio of nonresidential real estate loans totaled $275.4 million, or 22.2% of total loans; our portfolio of multi-family mortgage loans totaled $280.2 million, or 22.6% of total loans; our portfolio of construction and land loans totaled $80.7 million, or 6.5% of total loans; our portfolio of commercial loans totaled $69.0 million, or 5.6% of total loans; and our portfolio of commercial leases totaled $121.9 million, or 9.8% of total loans. We plan to continue to originate these types of loans and retain them in our portfolio, although we may participate portions of some of these loans to other financial institutions. These types of loans generally have greater credit risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful business operations of the borrower. These loans typically have larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Many of our borrowers also have more than one nonresidential real estate, multi-family mortgage, construction or commercial loan or lease outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development involving one or more loans or credit relationships can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development involving a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Our Concentration of Loans within Certain Segments of the Healthcare Industry Exposes Us to Increased Credit Risk At December 31, 2005, we had $50.9 million of loans to healthcare providers, including loans to nursing homes and hospice care companies and leases to hospitals for equipment. These loans represented 4.1% of our total loan portfolio as of that date. Of these loans, $25.1 million, or 49.3%, were collateralized by real estate. The remainder consisted of working capital lines of credit secured by government accounts receivable, of which we are a joint payee, or by leased equipment. Loans to healthcare providers have unique credit risks. A healthcare provider’s income stream is subject to many factors beyond the control of the healthcare provider, including the risk that the provider will not be reimbursed for all services provided. The State of Illinois has experienced budget shortfalls in recent years, causing delays in state reimbursement for healthcare costs. Government reimbursement rates are also subject to change, including retroactive adjustments. For example, a significant overpayment to a healthcare provider can result in the provider owing significant governmental repayments to the federal or state government. A healthcare provider’s profitability also depends on its ability to maintain certain levels of occupancy. Unexpected declines in occupancy rates can restrict a provider’s cash flow. Any of these factors can impair the ability of our healthcare provider borrowers to make loan repayments, which could result in significant loss to us. At December 31, 2005, we had not taken any charge-offs within this segment of our loan portfolio, but we have established specific loan loss reserve allowances in the amount of $830,000 for loans to two borrowers with an aggregate principal balance of $7.5 million. In addition, based on deficiencies in debt service coverage requirements, we classified as substandard loans to one borrower, which had an aggregate principal balance of $3.1 13 million, even though we did not establish a specific loan loss allowance for these loans. All of these borrowers were current on their loan payments to us as of December 31, 2005. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease In the event that our loan customers do not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans is insufficient to cover any remaining loan balance, we could experience significant loan losses or increase our provision for loan losses or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets, if any, serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. At December 31, 2005, our allowance for loan losses was $11.5 million, representing 0.93% of total loans and 201.2% of nonperforming loans as of that date. In determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. If our assumptions are incorrect, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, which may require additions to our allowance. Any material additions to our allowance for loan losses would materially decrease our net income. The Net Realizable Value of Our Investment Securities Could Be Lower than the Fair Values Assigned to Them Under Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America We determine the fair value of our investment securities in accordance with the guidance set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards “SFAS” 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,” and SFAS 107, “Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments.” Pursuant to this guidance, we determine fair value based on the most recent quoted market price, if available, for the security as of the applicable balance sheet date. If a quoted market price for a specific security is not currently available, we estimate the fair value based on the quoted market price of another security with similar characteristics, adjusted to reflect objectively measurable differences such as coupon rates and reset dates. In the absence of current quoted market prices for the same or a similar security, we use other valuation techniques to determine fair value, such as obtaining broker-dealer valuations or estimating fair value based on valuation modeling. Significant judgment is involved in determining fair value in the absence of current quoted market prices. The fair value of a security is used to determine the amount of any unrealized losses that must be reflected in our other comprehensive income and the net book value of our investment securities. Similarly, if we determine that a security is other-than-temporarily impaired pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 59 (“SAB No. 59”), we use the fair value of a security to determine the amount of the impairment loss and the adjusted cost basis for the security. The risk that there will be a material difference between a security’s fair value and its net realizable value is particularly significant for the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac floating rate preferred stocks that we hold in our investment portfolio. Based on the size of our holdings, it is possible that large block trade discounts could substantially reduce the net realizable value of one or more of the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac floating rate preferred stocks in the event that we were to sell shares in a market transaction. In addition, some of the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac floating rate preferred stock issuances that we own have traded infrequently or sporadically, which further increases the risk that the quoted market prices for these securities, and thus their fair value, may be higher than the prices for which we could sell shares in a market transaction. Future Impairment Losses Could be Required on the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac Floating Rate Preferred Stocks That We Own We own shares of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac floating rate preferred stocks with an adjusted cost basis of $79.4 million, and a fair value of $82.3 million at December 31, 2005, based on quoted market prices for these securities. The adjusted cost basis takes into account the pre-tax impairment losses that we recorded in accordance with SAB No. 59 for these securities of $8.8 million in 2004 and $12.5 million in 2003. A number of factors or combination of factors could cause us to conclude in one or more future reporting periods that an unrealized loss existing with respect to one or more of the Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac floating rate preferred stocks constitutes an other-than-temporary impairment. These factors include, but are not limited to, an increase in the severity of the unrealized loss on a particular security, an increase in the continuous duration of the unrealized loss without an improvement in value, a change in our intent or ability to hold the security for a period of time sufficient to allow for the forecasted recovery, or changes in market conditions and/or industry or issuer specific factors that would render us unable to forecast a full recovery in value, including adverse developments concerning Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. 14 Our Ability to Successfully Conduct Acquisitions Will Affect Our Ability to Grow Our Franchise and Compete Effectively in Our Marketplace On November 29, 2005, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire University National Bank. We will also consider the possible acquisition of other banks, thrifts and other financial services companies to supplement internal growth. Our efforts to acquire other financial institutions and financial service companies may not be successful. Numerous potential acquirors exist for most acquisition candidates, creating intense competition, which particularly affects the purchase price for which the institution can be acquired. In many cases, our competitors have significantly greater resources than we have, and greater flexibility to structure the consideration for the transaction. We may not participate in specific acquisition opportunities if we consider the proposed transaction unacceptable. We also may not be the successful bidder in acquisition opportunities that we pursue due to the willingness or ability of other potential acquirors to propose a higher purchase price or more attractive terms and conditions than we are willing or able to propose. If we are unable to or do not conduct acquisitions, our ability to deploy effectively the capital we raised in the offering, expand our geographic presence and improve our results of operations could be adversely affected. The Risks Presented by the Acquisition of Other Institutions Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations If we are successful in conducting acquisitions, including our pending acquisition of University National Bank, we will be presented with many risks that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An institution that we acquire may have unknown asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities that we did not discover or fully recognize in the due diligence process, thereby resulting in unanticipated losses. The acquisition of other institutions typically requires the integration of different corporate cultures, loan and deposit products, pricing strategies, data processing systems and other technologies, accounting, internal audit and financial reporting systems, operational processes, policies, procedures and internal controls, marketing programs and personnel of the acquired institution in order to make the transaction economically advantageous. The integration process is complicated and time consuming, and could divert our attention from other business concerns and be disruptive to our customers and the customers of the acquired institution. Our failure to successfully integrate an acquired institution could result in the loss of key customers and employees, and prevent us from achieving expected synergies and cost savings. Acquisitions also result in professional fees, purchase price adjustments, the amortization of core deposit intangibles and other expenses that could adversely affect our earnings, and in goodwill that could become impaired, requiring us to recognize further charges. We may finance acquisitions with borrowed funds, thereby increasing our leverage and reducing our liquidity, or with potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. Since Our Business is Concentrated in the Chicago Metropolitan Area, a Downturn in the Economy of This Area May Adversely Affect Our Business Our lending and deposit gathering activities are concentrated primarily in the Chicago metropolitan area. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of this area and surrounding areas. In addition, many of the loans in our loan portfolio are secured by real estate located in the Chicago metropolitan area. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could adversely affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including supply and demand, changes in general or regional economic conditions, interest rates, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Adverse changes in the regional and general economy could also reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans and generally have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our Future Success Is Dependent On Our Ability To Compete Effectively In The Highly Competitive Banking Industry We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our geographic markets and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial 15 services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, brokerage houses, mutual funds, insurance companies, real estate conduits, and specialized finance companies. Many of our competitors offer products and services that we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources and lending limits, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller newer competitors may also be more aggressive in pricing loans and deposits in order to increase their market share. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the extensive regulations imposed on savings banks and their holding companies. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various financial services. Our Stock-Based Incentive Plan Will Increase Our Costs and May Dilute Your Ownership Interest We intend to seek stockholder approval to implement a stock-based incentive plan. If approved, our officers and directors may be awarded, at no cost to them, shares of common stock and options to purchase shares of common stock under this plan. The stock-based incentive plan would be funded either through shares purchased in open market transactions, or from the issuance of authorized but unissued shares of common stock of the Company. While our intention would be to fund the plan through open market purchases, our stockholders would experience a reduction or dilution in ownership interest in the event newly issued shares were used to fund stock options and stock awards. Various Factors May Make Takeover Attempts That You Want to Succeed More Difficult to Achieve, Which May Affect the Value of Shares of Our Common Stock Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Maryland law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of the Company without the consent of our board of directors. You may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquiror could offer a premium over the then prevailing price of our shares of common stock. The Office of Thrift Supervision regulations prohibit, for three years following the completion of a mutual-to-stock conversion, the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 10% of any class of equity security of a converted savings institution without the prior approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws also may make it difficult to remove our current board of directors or management if our board of directors opposes the removal. We have elected to be subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act, which places restrictions on mergers and other business combinations with large stockholders. In addition, our articles of incorporation provide that certain mergers and other similar transactions, as well as amendments to our articles of incorporation, must be approved by stockholders owning at least two-thirds of our shares of common stock entitled to vote on the matter unless first approved by at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies. If approved by at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies, the action must still be approved by a majority of our shares entitled to vote on the matter. In addition, a director can be removed from office, but only for cause, if such removal is approved by stockholders owning at least two-thirds of our shares of common stock entitled to vote on the matter, unless first approved by at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors (excluding the director whose removal is sought), assuming no vacancies. If approved by at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies, the removal may be with or without cause, but must still be approved by a majority of our voting shares entitled to vote on the matter. Additional provisions include limitations on the voting rights of any beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock. Our bylaws, which can only be amended by the board of directors, also contain provisions regarding the timing, content and procedural requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. We Continually Encounter Technological Change, and May Have Fewer Resources Than Many of Our Competitors to Continue to Invest In Technological Improvements The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively 16 implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Our Business May Be Adversely Affected by the Highly Regulated Environment In Which We Operate We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation, examination and supervision. Recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. Our success depends on our continued ability to comply with these laws and regulations. Some of these regulations may increase our costs. While we cannot predict what effect any future changes in these laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes or interpretations may adversely affect our future operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 17 