Item 1A. Risk Factors. The risks described below should be carefully considered before investing in the Company. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Other risks and uncertainties that we have not predicted or assessed may also adversely affect us. If any of the following risks occurs, our earnings, financial condition or business could be materially harmed and the trading price of our common stock could decline, resulting in the loss of all or part of investments. Risk Factors Related to Reimbursement and Government Regulation We derive more than 80% of our net service revenue from Medicare. If there are changes in Medicare rates or methods governing Medicare payments for our services, or if we are unable to control our costs, our results of operations and cash flows could decline materially. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we received 83.2%, 81.7% and 82.6%, respectively, of our net service revenue from Medicare. Reductions in Medicare rates or changes in the way 29 Table of Contents Medicare pays for services could cause our net service revenue and net income to decline, perhaps materially. Reductions in Medicare reimbursement could be caused by many factors, including: • administrative or legislative changes to the base rates under the applicable prospective payment systems; • the reduction or elimination of annual rate increases; • the imposition or increase by Medicare of mechanisms, such as co-payments, shifting more responsibility for a portion of payment to beneficiaries; • adjustments to the relative components of the wage index used in determining reimbursement rates; • changes to case mix or therapy thresholds; • changes in the case mix of our patients; • bundling of post-acute healthcare payments; • the reclassification of home health resource groups or long-term care diagnosis-related groups; or • further limitations on referrals to long-term acute care hospitals from host hospitals. We generally receive fixed payments from Medicare for our services based on the level of care provided to our patients. Consequently, our profitability largely depends upon our ability to manage the cost of providing these services. Medicare currently provides for an annual adjustment of the various payment rates, such as the base episode rate for our home nursing services, based upon the increase or decrease of the medical care expenditure category of the Consumer Price Index, which may be less than actual inflation. This adjustment could be eliminated or reduced in any given year. Our base episode rate for home nursing services is also subject to an annual market basket adjustment. For 2008 and 2009, the home health market basket percentage increase was 3.0% and 2.9%, respectively. Based on the proposed 2010 budget issued by the Government Administration, and the report from MedPac issued in February 2009, we believe that in 2010 there is likely to be no market basket adjustment. Further, Medicare routinely reclassifies home health resource groups and long-term care diagnosis-related groups. As a result of those reclassifications, we could receive lower reimbursement rates depending on the case mix of the patients we service. If our cost of providing services increases by more than the annual Medicare price adjustment, or if these reclassifications result in lower reimbursement rates, our results of operations, net income and cash flows could be adversely impacted. We are subject to extensive government regulation. Any changes in the laws and regulations governing our business, or the interpretation and enforcement of those laws or regulations, could cause us to modify our operations and could negatively impact our operating results and cash flows. As a provider of health care services, we are subject to extensive regulation on the federal, state and local levels, including with regard to: • licensure and certificates of need and permits of approval; • coding and billing for services; • conduct of operations, including financial relationships among health care providers, Medicare fraud and abuse and physician self-referral; • maintenance and protection of records, including HIPAA; • environmental protection, health and safety; • certification of additional agencies or facilities by the Medicare program; and • payment for services. The laws and regulations governing our operations, along with the terms of participation in various government programs, regulate how we do business, the services we offer and our interactions with patients 30 Table of Contents and other providers. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. Changes in existing laws, regulations, their interpretations or the enactment of new laws or regulations could increase our costs of doing business and cause our net income to decline. If we fail to comply with these applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate and our ability to participate in federal and state reimbursement programs. We are also subject to various routine and non-routine governmental reviews, audits and investigations. In recent years, federal and state civil and criminal enforcement agencies have heightened and coordinated their oversight efforts related to the health care industry, including with respect to referral practices, cost reporting, billing practices, joint ventures and other financial relationships among health care providers. Although we have invested substantial time and effort in implementing policies and procedures to comply with laws and regulations, we could be subject to liabilities arising from violations. A violation of the laws governing our operations, or changes in the interpretation of those laws, could result in the imposition of fines, civil or criminal penalties, the termination of our rights to participate in federal and state-sponsored programs or the suspension or revocation of our licenses to operate. If we become subject to material fines or if other sanctions or other corrective actions are imposed upon us, we may suffer a substantial reduction in net income. Current economic conditions and continued decline in spending by the Federal and State governments could harm our results of operations and cash flows. Worldwide economic conditions have significantly declined and will likely remain depressed for the foreseeable future. While our services are not typically sensitive to general declines in the federal and state economies, the erosion in the tax base caused by the general economic downturn has caused, and will likely continue to cause, restrictions on the federal and state governments’ ability to obtain financing and a decline in spending. As a result, we may face reimbursement rate cuts or reimbursement delays from Medicare and Medicaid and other governmental payors, which could adversely impact our results or operating and cash flows. The President’s proposed budget for Federal Fiscal Year 2010 and beyond may impair our earnings, cash flow and financial condition. On February 26, 2009, President Obama released his proposed budget outline for the Federal 2010 fiscal year. Although details have not yet been released, the proposed budget calls for an aggregate reduction in home health industry reimbursement of $550 million in 2010. Additionally, the proposed budget calls for additional significant reductions in home health reimbursement for Medicare home health services in 2011 and beyond. The budget is currently in proposed form and Congress has yet to take any action on the proposal. We cannot predict whether the budget will be passed into law and we are therefore unable to determine what impact the ultimate Federal budget and resulting Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement might have on our financial condition or our results of operations. We may be unable to take actions to mitigate any negative reimbursement changes that might ultimately be enacted and the reimbursement change ultimately enacted could have a material and adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial position. If any of our agencies or facilities fail to comply with the conditions of participation in the Medicare program, that agency or facility could be terminated from Medicare, which could adversely affect our net service revenue and net income. Our agencies and facilities must comply with the extensive conditions of participation in the Medicare program. These conditions of participation vary depending on the type of agency or facility, but in general require our agencies and facilities to meet specified standards relating to personnel, patient rights, patient care, patient records, administrative reporting and legal compliance. If an agency or facility fails to meet any of the Medicare conditions of participation, that agency or facility may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable state surveyor. If that agency or facility then fails to institute and comply with a plan of correction to correct the deficiency within the time period provided by the state surveyor, that agency or facility could be terminated from the Medicare program. We respond in the ordinary course to deficiency notices issued by state surveyors and none of our facilities or agencies have ever been terminated from the Medicare program 31 Table of Contents for failure to comply with the conditions of participation. Any termination of one or more of our agencies or facilities from the Medicare program for failure to satisfy the Medicare conditions of participation could adversely affect our net service revenue and net income. The inability of long-term acute care hospitals to maintain their certification as long-term acute care hospital could have an adverse affect on our results of operations and cash flows. If our long-term acute care hospitals fail to meet or maintain the standards for Medicare certification as long-term acute care hospitals, such as for average minimum length of patient stay, they will receive reimbursement under the prospective payment system applicable to general acute care hospitals rather than the system applicable to long-term acute care hospitals. Payments at rates applicable to general acute care hospitals would likely result in our long-term acute care hospitals receiving less Medicare reimbursement than they currently receive for their patient services. Moreover, all but one of our long-term acute care hospitals are subject to additional Medicare criteria because they operate as separate hospitals located in space leased from and located in, a general acute care hospital, known as a host hospital. This is known as a “hospital within a hospital” model. These additional criteria include requirements concerning financial and operational separateness from the host hospital. If any of our long-term acute care hospitals were subject to payment as general acute care hospitals or failed to comply with the separateness requirements, our net service revenue and net income would decline. CMS has adopted regulations that could materially and adversely affect the results of operations and cash flows of our long-term acute care hospitals. In a final rule released on May 1, 2007, CMS expanded the Medicare HwH admissions threshold to apply not only to long-term acute care hospitals within hospitals and satellites but also to freestanding LTACHs and grandfathered LTACHs. The policy also applies to HwHs and satellites that admit Medicare patients from non-co-located hospitals. While this policy change was supposed to take effect for cost reporting periods beginning on or after July 1, 2007, the MMSEA delayed the implementation of the policy for three years with respect to freestanding LTACHs and grandfathered LTACHs. Further, the MMSEA set the percentage threshold at 50% for three years for HwHs and satellites located in urban areas that would otherwise be subject to a transition period and it established a 75% ceiling for HwHs and satellite facilities located in rural areas and those that receive referrals from MSA dominant hospitals or urban single hospitals. We currently have a total of seven LTACHs. Six of our hospitals are classified as HwHs and one as freestanding. Of the six HwH facilities, four are located in rural or non-MSAs and are therefore subject to a final admission percentage of 50% at the end of the phase-in period. Two of our six HwH facilities are located in MSA or urban areas and will be subject to a final admission percentage of 25% at the end of the phase-in period. Of the six locations classified as HwHs, two facilities are satellite locations of a parent hospital located in an MSA and one is a satellite location of a parent hospital located in a non-MSA. Based on our discussions with CMS, we believe each of these satellite locations will be viewed as being located in a non-MSA regardless of the location of its parent hospital and will be treated independently from its parent for purposes of calculating its compliance with the admissions limitations. If the “25 percent rule” is extended, as planned, to freestanding LTACHs after the three-year delay established in the MMSEA, our current freestanding facility would not likely be affected because we currently do not receive more than 25% of our Medicare admissions from any single referring hospital. For the 12 months ended December 31, 2008, on an individual basis, all of our LTACH locations admitted between 50% and 75% of their patients from their host hospitals. These hospitals came under the proper threshold as of September 30, 2008. Our remaining LTACH is not an HwH; therefore, it is not subject to these limits on host hospital referrals. Our ability to quantify the potential reduction in our reimbursement rates resulting from the implementation of these new regulations is contingent upon a variety of factors, such as our ability to reduce the percentage of admissions that are derived from our host hospitals and, if necessary, our ability to relocate our existing long-term acute care hospitals to freestanding locations. We may not be able to successfully 32 Table of Contents restructure or relocate these operations without incurring significant expense or in a manner that avoids reimbursement reductions. If these new regulations result in lower reimbursement rates, our net service revenue and net income could decline. We are reimbursed by Medicare for services we provide in our long-term acute care hospitals based on the long-term care diagnosis-related group assigned to each patient. CMS establishes these long-term care diagnosis-related groups by grouping diseases by diagnosis to reflect the amount of resources needed to treat a given disease. The May 2007 CMS final rules reclassifies certain long-term care diagnosis-related groups, which could result in a decrease in reimbursement rates. Further, the rule kept in place the financial penalties associated with the failure to limit the total number of Medicare patients discharged from a host hospital and subsequently readmitted to a long-term acute care hospital located within the host hospital to no greater than 5.0%. If we fail to comply with these readmission rates or if our reimbursement rates decline due to the reclassification of certain long-term care diagnosis-related groups, our net service revenue and net income could decline. Legislative initiatives could negatively impact our operations and financial results. In recent years, an increasing number of legislative initiatives have been introduced or proposed in Congress and in state legislatures that would result in major changes in the health care system, either at the national or state level. Many of these proposals have been introduced in an effort to reduce costs. For example, the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003 (“MMA”) allocated significant additional funds to Medicare managed care providers in order to promote greater participation in those plans by Medicare beneficiaries. If these increased funding levels achieve their intended result, the rate of growth in the Medicare fee-for-service market could decline. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we received 83.2%, 81.7% and 82.6%, respectively, of our net service revenue from the Medicare fee-for-service market. Among other proposals that have been introduced are insurance market reforms to increase the availability of group health insurance to small businesses, requirements that all businesses offer health insurance coverage to their employees and the creation of government health insurance or plans that would cover all citizens and increase payments by beneficiaries. We cannot predict whether any of the above proposals, or any other future proposals, will be adopted. If adopted, we could be forced to expend considerable resources to comply with and implement such reforms, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. If the structures or operations of our joint ventures are found to violate the law, it could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, we had 56 joint ventures with respect to the ownership and operation of 91 home nursing agency locations, ten hospices and six long-term acute care hospital locations. Our joint ventures are structured either as equity joint ventures or agency leasing arrangements, as permitted by applicable state laws and subject to business considerations. As of December 31, 2008, we had 52 equity joint ventures and four agency leasing arrangements. Of these 52 joint ventures, 44 are with hospitals, four are with physicians and four are with other parties. With respect to our four joint ventures with physicians, three are for the ownership and operation of long-term acute care hospitals and one is for the ownership of a rural home nursing agency. Our joint ventures with hospitals and physicians are governed by the Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws. These anti-kickback statutes prohibit the payment or receipt of anything of value in return for referrals of patients or services covered by governmental health care programs, such as Medicare. The OIG has published numerous safe harbors that exempt qualifying arrangements from enforcement under the Anti-Kickback Statute. We have sought to satisfy as many safe harbor requirements as possible in structuring our joint ventures. For example, each of our equity joint ventures with hospitals and physicians is structured in accordance with the following principles: • the investment interest offered is not based upon actual or expected referrals by the hospital or physician; • our joint venture partners are not required to make or influence referrals to the joint venture; 33 Table of Contents • at the time the joint venture is formed, each hospital or physician joint venture partner is required to make an actual capital contribution to the joint venture equal to the fair market value of his or her investment interest and is at risk to lose its investment; • neither we nor the joint venture entity lends funds to or guarantees a loan to acquire interests in the joint venture for a hospital or physician; and • distributions to our joint venture partners are based solely on their equity interests and are not affected by referrals from the hospital or physician. Despite our efforts to meet the safe harbor requirements as possible, our joint ventures may not satisfy all elements of the safe harbor requirements. Our four joint ventures with physicians are also governed by the Stark Law and similar state laws, which restrict physicians from making referrals for particular health care services to entities with which the physicians or their families have a financial relationship. We believe we have structured our physician joint ventures in a way that meets applicable exceptions under the Stark Law and similar state physician referral laws. For example, we believe our one physician joint venture for a home nursing agency complies with the rural provider exception to the Stark Law and that our three physician joint ventures for long-term acute care hospitals comply with the whole hospital exception to the Stark Law. If any of our joint ventures were found to be in violation of federal or state anti-kickback or physician referral laws, we could be required to restructure them or refuse to accept referrals from the physicians or hospitals with which we have entered into a joint venture. We also could be required to repay to Medicare amounts we have received pursuant to any prohibited referrals, and we could suffer civil or criminal penalties, including the loss of our licenses to operate and our ability to participate in federal and state health care programs. If any of our joint ventures were subject to any of these penalties, our business could be materially adversely affected. If the structure of any of our joint ventures were found to violate federal or state anti-kickback statutes or physician referral laws, we may be unable to implement our growth strategy, which could have an adverse impact on our future net income and consolidated results of operations. The application of state certificate of need and permit of approval regulations and compliance with federal and state licensing requirements could substantially limit our ability to operate and grow our business. Our ability to expand operations in a state will depend on our ability to obtain a state license to operate. States may have a limit on the number of licenses they issue. For example, as of December 31, 2008, we operated 51 home nursing agencies in Louisiana. Louisiana currently has a moratorium on the issuance of new home nursing agency licenses through 2009. We cannot predict whether this moratorium will be extended beyond this date or whether any other states in which we currently operate, or may wish to operate in the future, may adopt a similar moratorium. We currently operate in ten states that require health care providers to obtain prior approval, known as a certificate of need or a permit of approval, for the purchase, construction or expansion of health care facilities, to make certain capital expenditures or to make changes in services or bed capacity. The states that currently issue certificate of need or permits of approval are: Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas, Georgia, Hawaii, Kentucky, Maryland, Mississippi, Montana, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Vermont, Washington, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. In granting approval, these states consider the need in the service area for additional or expanded health care facilities or services. The failure to obtain any requested certificate of need, permit of approval or other license could impair our ability to operate or expand our business. 34 Table of Contents Risk Factors Related to Capital and Liquidity The adverse changes and uncertainty in the capital and credit markets may negatively affect our ability to access financing. Without such financing we may be unable to achieve our objectives for strategic acquisitions and internal growth. The disruption of the global financial and credit markets and the related instability in the global financial system may have an effect on our long term liquidity and financial conditions. While we have been able to achieve our current acquisition strategy through operating cash flows and without permanently borrowing on our Credit Facility, the need may arise to obtain additional funding. As of December 31, 2008, we had $3.5 million in cash. Based on our current plan of operations, including acquisitions, we believe this amount, when combined with our revolving line of credit totaling $75.0 million available under our Credit Facility, will be sufficient to fund our growth strategy and to meet our anticipated operating expenses, capital expenditures and debt service obligations for at least the next 12 months. If our future net service revenue or cash flow from operations is less than we currently anticipate, we may not have sufficient funds to implement our growth strategy. Further, we cannot readily predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition and internal development efforts and the associated capital commitments. If we do not have sufficient cash resources, our growth could be limited unless we are able to obtain additional equity or debt financing. We do not believe our availability of funds under our Credit Facility is at risk; however, we continue to monitor our lenders. If the availability of funds under our Credit Facility decreases we may need to consider adjusting our growth strategy. The agreement governing our credit facility contains, and future debt agreements may contain, various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business. The agreement and instruments governing our outstanding Credit Facility, and the agreements and instruments governing future debt agreements may contain various restrictive covenants that, among other things, require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and ratios that may restrict our ability to: • incur more debt; • redeem or repurchase stock, pay dividends or make other distributions; • make certain investments; • create liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • make unapproved acquisitions; • merge or consolidate; • transfer or sell assets; and • make fundamental changes in our corporate existence and principal business. In addition, events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with and maintain these financial tests and ratios. Any failure by us to comply with or maintain all applicable financial tests and ratios and to comply with all applicable covenants could result in an event of default with respect to our credit facility or any other future debt agreements. An event of default could lead to the acceleration of the maturity of any outstanding loans and the termination of the commitments to make further extensions of credit. Even if we are able to comply with all applicable covenants, the restrictions on our ability to operate our business at our sole discretion could harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities. 35 Table of Contents Our net service revenue is concentrated in a small number of states, which makes us sensitive to regulatory and economic changes in those states. Our net service revenue is particularly sensitive in the 17 states in which we provide services — Louisiana, Mississippi, Kentucky, Arkansas, Alabama, Virginia, West Virginia, Texas, Tennessee, Florida, Georgia, Ohio, Missouri, North Carolina, Maryland, Oklahoma and Washington. Accordingly, any changes in the current demographic, economic, competitive, or regulatory conditions in these states could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Medicaid changes in these states could also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cash flows. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events could negatively affect the local economies in which we operate or disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our operations in the southern United States are particularly susceptible to hurricanes. Such weather events can disrupt our operations, result in damage to our properties and negatively affect the local economies in which we operate. In late summer 2008, Hurricane Ike and Hurricane Gustav struck the Gulf Coast region of the United States and caused extensive and catastrophic physical damage to those areas. While we have recovered from the effects of Hurricane Ike and Hurricane Gustav, future hurricanes could affect our operations or the economies in those market areas and result in damage to certain of our facilities, the equipment located at such facilities or equipment rented to patients in those areas. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes. Although we maintain insurance coverage, we cannot guarantee that our insurance coverage will be adequate to cover any losses or that we will be able to maintain insurance at a reasonable cost in the future. If our losses from business interruption or property damage exceed the amount for which we are insured, our results of operating and financial condition would be adversely affected. Delays in reimbursement may cause liquidity problems. Our business is characterized by delays in reimbursement from the time we request payment for our services to the time we receive reimbursement or payment. A portion of our estimated reimbursement (60.0% for an initial episode of care and 50.0% for subsequent episodes of care) for each Medicare episode is billed at the commencement of the episode and we typically receive payment within approximately 12 days. The remaining reimbursement is billed upon completion of the episode and is typically paid within 14 to 17 days from the billing date. If we have information system problems or issues arise with Medicare or other payors, we may encounter delays in our payment cycle, which may cause working capital shortages. As a result, working capital management, including prompt and diligent billing and collection, is an important factor in our consolidated results of operations and liquidity. Significant delays in payment or reimbursement could have an adverse impact on our liquidity and financial condition. Risk Factors Related to Operations and our Growth Strategy We could be required to record a material non-cash charge to income if our recorded goodwill or intangible assets are impaired. As of December 31, 2008, we have recorded $112.6 million to goodwill and $30.0 million to intangible assets, net, on our consolidated balance sheet. Goodwill and other intangibles are assessed for impairment annually for each of our reporting units. The assessment includes comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to the carrying value of the assets assigned to the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit were to exceed our estimate of fair value of the reporting unit, we would be required to estimate the fair value of the individual assets and liabilities within the reporting unit to ascertain the fair value of goodwill. If we determine that the fair value is less than our book value, we could be required to record a non-cash impairment charge to our consolidated statements of income, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings. 36 Table of Contents Our allowance for contractual adjustments and doubtful accounts may not be sufficient to cover uncollectible amounts. On an ongoing basis, we estimate the amount of Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance receivables that we will not be able to collect. This allows us to calculate the expected loss on our receivables for the period we are reporting. Our allowance for contractual adjustments and doubtful accounts may underestimate actual unpaid receivables for various reasons, including: • adverse changes in our estimates as a result of changes in payor mix and related collection rates; • inability to collect funds due to missed filing deadlines or inability to prove that timely filings were made; • adverse changes in the economy generally exceeding our expectations; or • unanticipated changes in reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance companies. If our allowance for contractual adjustments and doubtful accounts is insufficient to cover losses on our receivables, our business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Shortages in qualified nurses and other health care professionals could increase our operating costs significantly or constrain our ability to grow. We rely on our ability to attract and retain qualified nurses and other health care professionals. The availability of qualified nurses nationwide has declined in recent years and competition for these and other health care professionals has increased, while salary and benefit costs have risen accordingly. Our ability to attract and retain nurses and other health care professionals depends on several factors, including our ability to provide desirable assignments and competitive benefits and salaries. We may not be able to attract and retain qualified nurses or other health care professionals in the future. In addition, the cost of attracting and retaining these professionals and providing them with attractive benefit packages may be higher than anticipated which could cause our net income to decline. Moreover, if we are unable to attract and retain qualified professionals, the quality of services offered to our patients may decline or our ability to grow may be constrained. If we are required to either repurchase or sell a substantial portion of the equity interests in our joint ventures, our capital resources and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. Upon the occurrence of fundamental changes to the laws and regulations applicable to our joint ventures, or if a substantial number of our joint venture partners were to exercise the buy/sell provisions contained in many of our joint venture agreements, we may be obligated to purchase or sell the equity interests held by us or our joint venture partners. In some instances, the purchase price under these buy/sell provisions is based on a multiple of the historical or future earnings before income taxes, depreciation and amortization of the equity joint venture at the time the buy/sell option is exercised. In other instances, the buy/sell purchase price will be negotiated by the partners but will be subject to a fair market valuation process. In the event the buy/sell provisions are exercised and we lack sufficient capital to purchase the interest of our joint venture partners, we may be obligated to sell our equity interest in these joint ventures. If we are forced to sell our equity interest, we will lose the benefit of those particular joint venture operations. If these buy/sell provisions are exercised and we choose to purchase the interest of our joint venture partners, we may be obligated to expend significant capital in order to complete such acquisitions. If either of these events occurs, our net service revenue and net income could decline or we may not have sufficient capital necessary to implement our growth strategy. If we are unable to maintain relationships with existing referral sources or establish new referral sources, our growth and net income could be adversely affected. Our success depends significantly on referrals from physicians, hospitals and other health care providers in the communities in which we deliver our services. Our referral sources are not obligated to refer business to us and may refer business to other health care providers. We believe many of our referral sources refer business to us as a result of the quality of patient care provided by our local employees in the communities in 37 Table of Contents which our agencies and facilities are located. If we are unable to retain these employees, our referral sources may refer business to other health care providers. Our loss of, or failure to maintain, existing relationships or our failure to develop new relationships could affect adversely our ability to expand our operations and operate profitably. We face competition, including from competitors with greater resources, which may make it difficult for us to compete effectively as a provider of post-acute health care services. We compete with local and regional home nursing and hospice companies, hospitals and other businesses that provide post-acute health care services, some of which are large established companies that have significantly greater resources than we do. Our primary competition comes from local operators in each of our markets. We expect our competitors to develop joint ventures with providers, referral sources and payors, which could result in increased competition. The introduction by our competitors of new and enhanced service offerings, in combination with industry consolidation and the development of competitive joint ventures, could cause a decline in net service revenue, loss of market acceptance of our services or make our services less attractive. Future increases in competition from existing competitors or new entrants may limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and competitive pressures may have a material, adverse impact on our business, financial condition and consolidated results of operations. Future acquisitions may be unsuccessful and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. Further, our acquisition and internal development activity may impose strains on our existing resources. Our growth strategy involves the acquisition of home nursing agencies throughout the United States. These acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including difficulties integrating acquired personnel and other corporate cultures into our business, the potential loss of key employees or patients of acquired agencies and the assumption of liabilities and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired agencies. We may not be able to fully integrate the operations of the acquired businesses with our current business structure in an efficient and cost-effective manner. The failure to effectively integrate any of these businesses could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We generally structure our acquisitions as asset purchase transactions in which we expressly state that we are not assuming any pre-existing liabilities of the seller and obtain indemnification rights from the previous owners for acts or omissions arising prior to the date of such acquisitions. However, the allocation of liability arising from such acts or omissions between the parties could involve the expenditure of a significant amount of time, manpower and capital. Further, the former owners of the agencies and facilities we acquire may not have the financial resources necessary to satisfy our indemnification claims relating to pre-existing liabilities. If we were unsuccessful in a claim for indemnification from a seller, the liability imposed could materially, adversely affect our operations. In addition, as we continue to expand our markets, our growth could strain our resources, including management, information and accounting systems, regulatory compliance, logistics and other internal controls. Our resources may not keep pace with our anticipated growth. If we do not manage our expected growth effectively, our future prospects could be affected adversely. We may face increased competition for attractive acquisition and joint venture candidates. We intend to continue growing through the acquisition of additional home nursing agencies and the formation of joint ventures with hospitals for the operation of home nursing agencies. We face competition for acquisition and joint venture candidates, which may limit the number of acquisition and joint venture opportunities available to us or lead to the payment of higher prices for our acquisitions and joint ventures. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to identify suitable acquisition or joint venture opportunities in the future or that any such opportunities, if identified, will be consummated on favorable terms, if at all. Without successful acquisitions or joint ventures, our future growth rate could decline. In addition, we cannot guarantee that any future acquisitions or joint ventures, if consummated, will result in further growth. 38 Table of Contents If we are subject to substantial malpractice or other similar claims, it could materially adversely impact our income from operations and cash flows. The services we offer have an inherent risk of professional liability and related, substantial damage awards. We, and the nurses and other health care professionals who provide services on our behalf, may be the subject of medical malpractice claims. These nurses and other health care professionals could be considered our agents and, as a result, we could be held liable for their medical negligence. We cannot predict the effect that any claims of this nature, regardless of their ultimate outcome, could have on our business or reputation or on our ability to attract and retain patients and employees. We maintain malpractice liability insurance that provides primary coverage on a claims-made basis of $1.0 million per incident and $3.0 million in annual aggregate amounts. In addition, we maintain multiple layers of umbrella coverage in the aggregate amount of $25.0 million that provide excess coverage for professional malpractice and other liabilities. We are responsible for deductibles and amounts in excess of the limits of our coverage. Claims that could be made in the future in excess of the limits of such insurance, if successful, could materially adversely affect our ability to conduct business or manage our assets. In addition, our insurance coverage may not continue to be available to us at commercially reasonable rates, in adequate amounts or on satisfactory terms. If we are unable to protect the proprietary nature of our software systems and methodologies, our business and financial condition could be harmed. We have developed a proprietary software system, which we refer to as our Service Value Point system that allows us to collect assessment data, establish treatment plans, monitor patient treatment and evaluate our clinical and financial performance. In addition, we rely on other proprietary methodologies or information to which others may obtain access or independently develop. To protect our proprietary information, we require certain of our employees, consultants, financial advisors and strategic partners to enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements. These agreements may not ultimately provide meaningful protection for our proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. If our competitors were able to replicate our Service Value Point system, it could allow them to improve their operations and thereby compete more effectively in the markets in which we operate. If we are unable to protect the proprietary nature of our Service Value Point system or our other proprietary information or methodologies, our business and financial performance could be harmed. Failure of, or problems with, our critical software or information systems could harm our business and operating results. In addition to our Service Value Point system, our business is substantially dependent on other non-proprietary software. We utilize a third-party software information system for billing and maintaining patient claim receivables for our long-term acute care hospitals. Our various home nursing agency databases are fully consolidated into an enterprise-wide system. Problems with, or the failure of, these systems could negatively impact our clinical performance and our management and reporting capabilities. Any such problems or failure could materially and adversely affect our operations and reputation, result in significant costs to us, cause delays in our ability to bill Medicare or other payors for our services, or impair our ability to provide our services in the future. The costs incurred in correcting any errors or problems with regard to our proprietary and non-proprietary software may be substantial and could adversely affect our net income. Our information systems are networked via public network infrastructure and standards based encryption tools that meet regulatory requirements for transmission of protected health care information over such networks. However, threats from computer viruses, instability of the public network on which our data transit relies, or other instances that might render those networks unstable or disabled would create operational difficulties for us, including difficulties effectively transmitting claims and maintaining efficient clinical oversight of our patients, as well as disrupting revenue reporting and billing and collections management, which could adversely affect our business or operations. 39 Table of Contents Risk Factors Related to our Ownership and Management As a holding company, we have no material assets or operations of our own. We are a holding company with no material assets or operations of our own. Accordingly, our ability to service our debt and pay dividends, if any, is dependent upon the earnings from the business conducted by our subsidiaries. The distributions of those earnings or advances or other distributions of funds by these subsidiaries to us are contingent upon the subsidiaries’ earnings and are subject to various business considerations. In addition, distributions by subsidiaries could be subject to statutory restrictions, including state laws requiring that the subsidiary be solvent, or contractual restrictions. If our subsidiaries are unable to make sufficient distributions or advances to us, we may not have the cash resources necessary to service our debt or pay dividends. The loss of certain senior management could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. Our success depends upon the continued employment of certain members of our senior management, including our co-founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman, Keith G. Myers, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Peter J. Roman, and our President, Chief Operating Officer, Secretary and Director, John L. Indest. We have entered into an employment agreement with each of these officers in an effort to further secure their employment. The loss of service of any of these officers could have a material adverse effect on our operations if we were unable to find a suitable replacement. Certain provisions of our charter, bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder’s rights plan may delay or prevent a change in control of the Company. Delaware law and our corporate documents contain provisions that may enable our board of directors to resist a change in control of the Company. These provisions include: • a staggered board of directors; • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • the authorization of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders; and • a stockholder’s rights plan that includes a 20% threshold for triggering events, a three-year term for directors, an independent director evaluation provision (commonly known as a “TIDE” provision) and a stockholder redemption feature allowing stockholders to vote at a special meeting that would be called to consider qualified takeover offers. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of the Company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors or cause us to take other corporate actions. Our stock price is thinly traded, which may cause volatility in our common stock, including a decline in value. We have a relatively low volume of daily trades in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. For example, the average daily trading volume of our common stock on NASDAQ over the three-month trading period ending March 3, 2009 was approximately 414,000 shares per day. Because our common stock is traded infrequently, the price per share of our common stock can fluctuate more significantly from day-to-day than a widely held stock that is actively traded on a daily basis. For example, trading of a large volume of our common stock may have a significant impact on our trading price. In addition, future issuances of our common stock, including the exercise of any options or the vesting of any restricted stock that we may 40 Table of Contents grant to directors, executive officers and other employees in the future and the issuance of common stock in connection with acquisitions, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If we identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, our business and our stock price could be adversely affected. Beginning with our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2006, we are required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. Under Section 404, we are required to assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and report our conclusion in our annual report. Our auditor is also required to report its conclusion regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The existence of one or more material weaknesses would require us and our auditor to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. If there are identified deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our financial reporting, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports filed under the Exchange Act. 