Risk Factors The Company, and thus the securities of Cardero, should be considered a speculative investment and investors should carefully consider all of the information disclosed in this annual report prior to making an investment in the Company. In addition to the other information presented in this annual report, the following risk factors should be given special consideration when evaluating an investment in any of Cardero’s securities. The Company’s independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph relating to the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in its report on the Company’s audited financial statements The report of the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm on the Company’s financial statements for the year ended October 31, 2013 includes an explanatory paragraph stating that the Company’s losses and negative cash flows from operations and accumulated deficit at October 31, 2013 raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. If the Company is unable to obtain sufficient funding, its business prospects, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected and the Company may be unable to continue as a going concern. If the Company is unable to continue as a going concern, it may have to liquidate its assets and may receive less than the value at which those assets are carried on its consolidated financial statements, and it is likely that investors will lose all or a part of their investment. Future reports from the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm may also contain statements expressing doubt about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If the Company seeks additional financing to fund its business activities in the future and there remains doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern, investors or other financing sources may be unwilling to provide additional funding on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The Company may be required to cease operations unless it is successful in raising additional funds At the present time, the Company is experiencing significant difficulty in raising additional capital to continue its operations. The Company has taken steps to conserve cash by reducing staffing, halting/delaying further work on its properties, including the Environmental Assessment Application and planned bankable feasibility study for Carbon Creek, and moving to shut down its subsidiaries in Mexico (sold subsequent to October 31, 2013), Peru, Ghana and the United States. The Company presently has substantial liabilities and upcoming advance royalty payments in respect of portions of Carbon Creek, and does not have the funds available to settle such liabilities or to make such advanced royalty payments. Although the Company continues to pursue potential funding opportunities, there can be no assurance that it will be successful in doing so. If the Company is unable to secure additional working capital it may be forced to further curtail or cease operations and may lose its interest in some or all of its properties, including Carbon Creek, which is its only material property at this time. The Success of the Company depends primarily on the development and operation of Carbon Creek, which is the Company’s only material project and may not be commercially viable at current coal prices The Company’s only material property at this time is Carbon Creek, which is in the exploration stage. The Company has issued a Pre-feasibility Study on Carbon Creek which indicates that the project generates a positive return at the following coal prices: Hard Coking Coal (USD 200/tonne), High Vol Metcoal (USD 137/tonne) and Thermal Coal (USD 115/tonne). The current quarterly contract pricing for these commodities as at April 30, 2014 is approximately as follows: Hard Coking Coal (USD 143/tonne), High Vol Metcoal (USD 97/tonne) and Thermal Coal (USD 80/tonne), and the project may not be commercially viable at current coal prices. While management is considering exploring opportunities for optimizing the production profile and potentially reducing project costs, there can be no assurance that any such efforts will be successful or that coal prices will increase sufficiently to warrant a decision to develop Carbon Creek. If Carbon Creek is not developed, or if Carbon Creek is otherwise subject to deterioration, destruction or significant delay, the Company may never generate revenues and shareholders may lose most or all of their investment in the Common Shares. 14 Risks Associated with Mineral Exploration The Company has no known reserves on its interests in exploration properties. Other than on the Carbon Creek property, there are no known resources, on any of the Company’s properties. The majority of exploration projects do not result in the discovery of commercially mineable deposits of ore. The Company has no known reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 standards. The Company has no mineral producing properties and has never generated any revenue from its operations. Substantial expenditures are required to establish ore reserves through drilling and metallurgical and other testing techniques, determine metal content and metallurgical recovery processes to extract metal from the ore, and construct, renovate or expand mining and processing facilities. No assurance can be given that any level of recovery of ore reserves will be realized or that any identified mineral deposit, even it is established to contain an estimated resource, will ever qualify as a commercial mineable ore body which can be legally and economically exploited. Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resources will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. The Company faces risks related to exploration and development, if warranted, of its properties. Fires, power outages, labour disruptions, flooding, explosions, cave-ins, landslides and the inability to obtain suitable or adequate machinery, equipment or labour are other risks involved in the operation of mines and the conduct of exploration programs. Substantial expenditures are required to establish reserves through drilling, to develop metallurgical processes, to develop the mining and processing facilities and infrastructure at any site chosen for mining. Although substantial benefits may be derived from the discovery of a major mineralized deposit, no assurance can be given that minerals will be discovered in sufficient quantities to justify commercial operations or that funds required for development can be obtained on a timely basis. The economics of developing mineral properties is affected by many factors including the cost of operations, variations of the grade of ore mined, fluctuations in the price of gold or other minerals produced, costs of processing equipment and such other factors as government regulations, including regulations relating to royalties, allowable production, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. In addition, the grade of mineralization ultimately mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results and such differences could be material. Short term factors, such as the need for orderly development of ore bodies or the processing of new or different grades, may have an adverse effect on mining operations and on the results of operations. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale operations. Material changes in geological resources, grades, stripping ratios or recovery rates may affect the economic viability of projects. There are risks related to estimates of mineral reserves and resources and production risks. The mineral resource/reserve estimates presented in the Company’s filings with securities regulatory authorities, press releases and other public statements that may be made from time to time are based upon estimates made by Company personnel and independent geologists, and no assurance can be given that any particular level of recovery of minerals will in fact be realized or that an identified reserve or resource will ever qualify as a commercially mineable (or viable) deposit which can be legally and economically exploited. The estimating of mineral resources and mineral reserves is a subjective process and the accuracy of mineral resource and mineral reserve estimates is a function of the quantity and quality of available data, the accuracy of statistical computations, and the assumptions used and judgments made in interpreting available engineering and geological information. There is significant uncertainty in any mineral resource or mineral reserve estimate and the actual deposits encountered and the economic viability of a deposit may differ materially from the Company’s estimates. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that: 15 these estimates will be accurate; reserve, resource or other mineralization figures will be accurate; or this mineralization could be mined or processed profitably. Because the Company has not commenced production at any of its properties, and has not (with the exception of Carbon Creek) defined or delineated any proven or probable reserves on any of its properties, mineralization estimates for the Company’s properties may require adjustments or downward revisions based upon further exploration or development work or actual production experience. In addition, the grade of mineralization ultimately mined may differ from that indicated by drilling results and such differences could be material. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small-scale tests will be duplicated in large-scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale. Production can be affected by such factors as permitting regulations and requirements, weather, environmental factors, unforeseen technical difficulties, unusual or unexpected geological formations and work interruptions. Short term factors, such as the need for orderly development of deposits or the processing of new or different grades, may have a material adverse effect on mining operations and on the results of operations. There can be no assurance that minerals recovered in small scale laboratory tests will be duplicated in large scale tests under on-site conditions or in production scale operations. Material changes in reserves or resources, grades, stripping ratios or recovery rates may affect the economic viability of projects. The estimated resources described in the Company’s filings with securities regulatory authorities, press releases and other public statements that may be made from time to time should not be interpreted as assurances of mine life or of the profitability of future operations. Estimated mineral resources and mineral reserves may have to be re-estimated based on changes in applicable commodity prices, further exploration or development activity or actual production experience. This could materially and adversely affect estimates of the volume or grade of mineralization, estimated recovery rates or other important factors that influence mineral resource or mineral reserve estimates. Market price fluctuations for any commodities the Company may produce, or plan to produce, increased production costs or reduced recovery rates or other factors may render any particular reserves uneconomical or unprofitable to develop at a particular site or sites. A reduction in estimated reserves could require material write downs in investment in the affected mining property and increased amortization, reclamation and closure charges. Mineral resources are not mineral reserves and there is no assurance that any mineral resources will ultimately be reclassified as proven or probable reserves. Mineral resources which are not mineral reserves do not have demonstrated economic viability. The Company has no known reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 standards. There are risks related to the acquisition of title to the Company’s mineral properties. The acquisition of title to mineral properties is a very detailed and time-consuming process. Title to, and the area of, mineral concessions may be disputed. While the Company has diligently investigated title to all mineral properties in which it has an interest and, to the best of its knowledge, title to all such properties is in good standing or, where not yet granted, the application process appears to be proceeding normally in all the circumstances, this should not be construed as a guarantee of title or that any such applications for concessions will be granted. Title to mineral properties may be affected by undetected defects such as aboriginal or indigenous peoples’ land claims, or unregistered agreements or transfers. The Company has not obtained title opinions for the majority of its mineral properties. Not all the mineral properties in which the Company has an interest have been surveyed, and their actual extent and location may be in doubt. 16 Ownership, exploration and development of the Company’s properties are subject to government approvals and regulations. Any exploration, development or mining operations carried on by the Company will be subject to government legislation, policies and controls relating to prospecting, development, production, environmental protection, mining taxes and labour standards. The Company cannot predict whether or not such legislation, policies or controls, as presently in effect, will remain so, and any changes therein (for example, significant new royalties or taxes), which are completely outside the control of the Company, may materially adversely affect to ability of the Company to continue its planned business within any such jurisdictions. There are risks related to the acquisition by the Company of mineral properties through agreements with third parties. The agreements pursuant to which the Company has the right to acquire a number of its properties provide that the Company must make a series of cash payments and/or share issuances and/or advance royalty payments over certain time periods, expend certain minimum amounts on the exploration of the properties or contribute its share of ongoing expenditures. Failure by the Company to make such payments, issue such shares or make such advance royalty payments or expenditures in a timely fashion may result in the Company losing its interest in such properties. In particular, the Company has upcoming advance royalty payments of $2,500,000 in respect of portions of Carbon Creek and does not presently have the funds available to make such advance royalty payments. There can be no assurance that the Company will have, or be able to obtain, the necessary financial resources to be able to maintain all of its property agreements in good standing, or to be able to comply with all of its obligations thereunder, with the result that the Company could forfeit its interest in one or more of its mineral properties. The ability of the Company to access its mineral properties may be restricted. Although the Company acquires the rights to some or all of the minerals in the ground subject to the mineral tenures that it acquires, or has a right to acquire, in most cases it does not thereby acquire any rights to, or ownership of, the surface to the areas covered by its mineral tenures. In such cases, applicable mining laws usually provide for rights of access to the surface for the purpose of carrying on mining activities, however, the enforcement of such rights through the courts can be costly and time consuming. It is necessary to negotiate surface access or to purchase the surface rights if long-term access is required. There can be no guarantee that, despite having the right at law to access the surface and carry on mining activities, the Company will be able to negotiate satisfactory agreements with any such existing landowners/occupiers for such access or purchase of such surface rights, and therefore it may be unable to carry out planned mining activities. In addition, in circumstances where such access is denied, or no agreement can be reached, the Company may need to rely on the assistance of local officials or the courts in the applicable jurisdiction, the outcomes of which cannot be predicted with any certainty. The inability of the Company to secure surface access or purchase required surface rights could materially and adversely affect the timing, cost or overall ability of the Company to develop any mineral deposits it may locate. This is a particular problem in many areas of Argentina and Ghana, where blockades of access to the Company’s properties, hostile actions by local communities and the potential unwillingness of local police or governmental officials to assist a foreign company against its own citizens can result in the Company being unable to carry out any exploration activities despite being legally authorized to do so and having complied with all applicable local laws and requirements. Such issues can also occur in Canada, especially in connection with actions concerning resource development projects and involving first nations and environmental protest groups. Mineral operations are subject to market forces outside of the Company’s control. Even if commercial quantities of mineral deposits are discovered by the Company, there is no guarantee that a profitable market will exist for the sale of the minerals produced. The Company’s long-term viability and profitability depend, in large part, upon the market price of minerals which have experienced significant movement over short periods of time, and are affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Company, including international economic and political trends, expectations of inflation, currency exchange fluctuations, interest rates and global or regional consumption patterns, speculative activities and increased production due to improved mining and production methods. The recent price fluctuations in the price of all commodities for which the Company is presently exploring is an example of a situation over which the Company has no control and may materially adversely affect the Company in a manner that it may not be able to compensate for. The supply of and demand for minerals are affected by various factors, including political events, economic conditions and production costs in major producing regions. There can be no assurance that the price of any minerals produced from the Company’s properties will be such that any such deposits can be mined at a profit. 17 Resource exploration and development is generally a speculative business. Resource exploration and development is a speculative business and involves a high degree of risk, including, among other things, unprofitable efforts resulting both from the failure to discover mineral deposits and from finding mineral deposits which, though present, are insufficient in size and grade at the then prevailing market conditions to return a profit from production. The marketability of natural resources which may be acquired or discovered by the Company will be affected by numerous factors beyond the control of the Company. These factors include market fluctuations, the proximity and capacity of natural resource markets, government regulations, including regulations relating to prices, taxes, royalties, land use, importing and exporting of minerals and environmental protection. The exact effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted, but the combination of these factors may result in the Company not receiving an adequate return on invested capital. The Company may not be able to obtain the permits and licenses required for its operations. The operations of the Company will require licenses and permits from various governmental authorities. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain all necessary licenses and permits that may be required to carry out exploration, development and mining operations at its projects, on reasonable terms or at all. Delays or a failure to obtain such licenses and permits, or a failure to comply with the terms of any such licenses and permits that the Company does obtain, could have a material adverse effect on the Company. The mining industry is intensely competitive and the Company is at a disadvantage in this regard. The Company’s business of the acquisition, exploration and development of mineral properties is intensely competitive. The Company may be at a competitive disadvantage in acquiring additional mining properties because it must compete with other individuals and companies, many of which have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities than the Company. The Company may also encounter increasing competition from other mining companies in efforts to hire experienced mining professionals. Competition for exploration resources at all levels is currently very intense, particularly affecting the availability of manpower, drill rigs and helicopters. Increased competition could adversely affect the Company’s ability to attract necessary capital funding or acquire suitable producing properties or prospects for mineral exploration in the future. Mining and mineral exploration have substantial operational risks which are uninsured or uninsurable risks. Exploration, development and mining operations involve various hazards, including environmental hazards, industrial accidents, metallurgical and other processing problems, unusual or unexpected rock formations, structural cave-ins or slides, flooding, fires, metal losses and periodic interruptions due to inclement or hazardous weather conditions. These risks could result in damage to or destruction of mineral properties, facilities or other property, personal injury, environmental damage, delays in operations, increased cost of operations, monetary losses and possible legal liability. The Company may not be able to obtain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums or at all. The Company may elect not to insure where premium costs are disproportionate to the Company’s perception of the relevant risks. The payment of such insurance premiums and of such liabilities would reduce the funds available for exploration and production activities. 18 Risks Associated with Regulatory Requirements The Company is subject to significant environmental regulations that can change over time. The activities of the Company are subject to environmental regulations promulgated by government agencies in different countries from time to time. Environmental legislation generally provides for restrictions and prohibitions on spills, releases or emissions into the air, discharges into water, management of waste, management of hazardous substances, protection of natural resources, antiquities and endangered species and reclamation of lands disturbed by mining operations. Certain types of operations require the submission and approval of environmental impact assessments. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner which means stricter standards, and enforcement, fines and penalties for non-compliance are more stringent. Environmental assessments of proposed projects carry a heightened degree of responsibility for companies and directors, officers and employees. The cost of compliance with changes in governmental regulations has a potential to reduce the profitability of operations. The Company is subject to numerous regulatory requirements which it may not be able to comply with. The activities of the Company are subject to extensive regulations governing various matters, including environmental protection, management and use of toxic substances and explosives, management of natural resources, exploration, development of mines, production and post-closure reclamation, exports, price controls, taxation, regulations concerning business dealings with indigenous peoples, labour standards on occupational health and safety, including mine safety, and historic and cultural preservation. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in civil or criminal fines or penalties, enforcement actions thereunder, including orders issued by regulatory or judicial authorities causing operations to cease or be curtailed, and may include corrective measures requiring capital expenditures, installation of additional equipment, or remedial actions, any of which could result in the Company incurring significant expenditures. The Company may also be required to compensate those suffering loss or damage by reason of a breach of such laws, regulations or permitting requirements. It is also possible that future laws and regulations, or more stringent enforcement of current laws and regulations by governmental authorities, could cause additional expense, capital expenditures, restrictions on or suspension of the Company’s operations and delays in the exploration and development of the Company’s properties. Risks Related to Financing The Company has a history of losses and no revenues, and may never become profitable. The Company has no history of production or earnings and due to the nature of its business there can be no assurance that the Company will be profitable. The Company has not paid dividends on its shares since incorporation and does not anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. All of the Company’s properties are in the exploration stage and, with the exception of Carbon Creek, where there are resources, the Company has not defined or delineated any proven or probable resources or reserves on any of its properties. The Company has no known reserves under SEC Industry Guide 7 standards. None of the Company’s properties are currently under development. Continued exploration of its existing properties and the future development of any properties found to be economically feasible, will require significant funds. The only present source of funds available to the Company is through the sale of its equity securities or the sale or optioning of a portion of its interest in its mineral properties. Even if the results of exploration are encouraging, the Company may not have sufficient funds to conduct the further exploration that may be necessary to determine whether or not a commercially mineable deposit exists. While the Company may generate additional working capital through further equity offerings, borrowing or through the sale or possible syndication of its properties, there is no assurance that any such funds will be available on favourable terms, or at all. At present, it is impossible to determine what amounts of additional funds, if any, may be required. Failure to raise such additional capital could put the continued viability of the Company at risk. 19 The Company will require additional capital to meet its capital requirements for 2014 and for future fiscal years. The Company does not have sufficient financial resources to undertake all of its planned activities for 2014. The Company’s ability to continue its exploration, assessment, and development activities depends in part on the Company’s ability to obtain financing through joint ventures, debt financing, equity financing, production sharing arrangements or some combination of these or other means, and ultimately, commence operations and generate revenue. There can be no assurance that any such arrangements will be concluded and the associated funding obtained. There can be no assurance that the Company will commence operations and generate sufficient revenues to meet its obligations as they become due or will obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms, if at all. The failure of the Company to meet its on-going obligations on a timely basis could result in the loss or substantial dilution of the Company’s interests (as existing or as proposed to be acquired) in its properties. In addition, should the Company incur significant losses in future periods, it may be unable to continue as a going concern, and realization of assets and settlement of liabilities in other than the normal course of business may be at amounts significantly different from those in the financial statements included in this annual report. Currency fluctuations may adversely affect the Company’s operations. The Company presently maintains its accounts in Canadian dollars. Due to the nature of its operations in such countries, the Company also maintains accounts in U.S. dollars, Argentinean pesos and Ghanaian cedis. The Company’s operations in the United States, Argentina and Ghana and its proposed payment commitments and exploration expenditures under many of the agreements pursuant to which it holds, or has a right to acquire, an interest in its mineral properties are denominated in U.S. dollars, making it subject to foreign currency fluctuations. Such fluctuations are out of its control and may materially adversely affect the Company’s financial position and results. The Company does not engage in any hedging programs with respect to currencies. Risks Relating to an investment in securities of the Company There are significant risks that the Company’s assumptions underlying the estimates on which its preliminary feasibility study for Carbon Creek are based may turn out to be incorrect. The economic assumptions underlying the Norwest pre-feasibility study on Carbon Creek are based upon both the Company’s and outside experts’ estimates of numerous factors, including, without limitation, future commodity prices, future labour and machinery costs, future fuel costs, the amenability of the proposed products to treatment, the future capacity of transportation systems, the timing of the issuance of required permits and anticipated studies to be completed. A material change in any of these could materially and adversely affect the conclusions of the pre-feasibility study. For this reason, undue reliance should not be placed upon such conclusions. The Company will be required to prepare a feasibility study, which would likely result in the refinement of or changes to such information, in order to refine such estimates to the point where it may be possible to make a decision whether or not to develop Carbon Creek, and such feasibility study is currently beyond the financial capacity of the Company to prepare. The Company is dependent upon certain key personnel. The success of the Company’s operations will depend upon numerous factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, including (i) the ability of the Company to enter into strategic alliances through a combination of one or more joint ventures, mergers or acquisition transactions; and (ii) the ability to attract and retain additional key personnel in exploration, mine development, sales, marketing, technical support and finance. These and other factors will require the use of outside suppliers as well as the talents and efforts of the Company. There can be no assurance of success with any or all of these factors on which the Company’s operations will depend. The Company has relied and may continue to rely, upon consultants and others for operating expertise. 20 Management of the Company has limited experience with development-stage mining operations. The Company has limited experience in placing resource properties into production, and its ability to do so will be dependent upon using the services of appropriately experienced personnel or entering into agreements with other major resource companies that can provide such expertise. There can be no assurance that the Company will have available to it the necessary expertise when and if it places its resource properties into production. Certain of the Company’s directors and officers are also directors and/or officers and/or shareholders of potential competitors of the Company, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest. Several of the Company’s directors and officers are also directors, officers and/or shareholders of other companies. Some of the directors and officers of the Company are engaged and will continue to be engaged in the search for additional business opportunities on behalf of other corporations, and situations may arise where these directors and officers will be in direct competition with the Company. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. Such a conflict poses the risk that the Company may enter into a transaction on terms which could place the Company in a worse position than if no conflict existed. Conflicts, if any, will be dealt with in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Business Corporations Act (British Columbia). The Board has resolved that any transaction either at the Company level or of a subsidiary level, with entities having directors, officers or significant shareholders in common, must be approved by disinterested Board members. The Company’s directors are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company and to disclose any interest which they may have in any project or opportunity in respect of which the Company is proposing to enter into a transaction. There are risks related to stock market prices and volume volatility. In 2011, 2012 and 2013, worldwide securities markets, particularly those in the United States and Canada, have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly those considered exploration or development stage companies, have experienced unprecedented fluctuations in price which have not necessarily been related to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. Most significantly, the share prices of junior natural resource companies have experienced an unprecedented decline in value and there has been a significant decline in the number of buyers willing to purchase such securities. In addition, significantly higher redemptions by holders of mutual funds has forced many of such funds (including those holding the Company’s securities) to sell such securities at any price. As a consequence, despite the Company’s past success in securing significant equity financing, market forces may render it difficult or impossible for the Company to secure placees to purchase new share issues at a price which will not lead to severe dilution to existing shareholders, or at all. Therefore, there can be no assurance that significant fluctuations in the Common Shares will not occur, or that such fluctuations will not materially adversely impact on the Company’s ability to raise equity funding without significant dilution to its existing shareholders, or at all. Shareholder interests may be diluted through the exercise of warrants issued to the Kopple Lenders. In August 2013, as part of a private placement of senior secured notes in the principal amount of USD 5,700,000, and in December 2013, in order to secure a USD 5,000,000 line of credit (as more further described in the Item 4.A - History and Development of the Company), the Company issued warrants to purchase 56,718,132 Common Shares and will issue additional warrants exercisable to acquire 10,058,330 Common Shares (shareholder approval to such issuance having been received on April 4, 2014). If these warrants are exercised it will result in substantial dilution to existing shareholders. 21 Shareholder interests may be diluted through the granting of incentive stock options. Because the success of the Company is highly dependent upon the performance of its directors, officers and consultants, the Company has granted, and will in the future grant, to some or all of its directors, officers and consultants, options to purchase its Common Shares as non-cash incentives. Those options may be granted at exercise prices below those for the Common Shares prevailing in the public trading market at the time or may be granted at exercise prices equal to market prices at times when the public market is depressed. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be granted and exercised, the interests of the other shareholders of the Company may be diluted. The Company may be a “passive foreign investment company” under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, which may result in material adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to investors in Common Shares that are U.S. taxpayers. Investors in Common Shares that are U.S. taxpayers should be aware that Cardero believes that it was in its tax year ended October 31, 2013, and may be in current and future tax years, a “passive foreign investment company” under Section 1297(a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (a “PFIC”). If Cardero is or becomes a PFIC, generally any gain recognized on the sale of the Common Shares and any “excess distributions” (as specifically defined) paid on the Common Shares must be rateably allocated to each day in a U.S. taxpayer’s holding period for the Common Shares. The amount of any such gain or excess distribution allocated to prior years of such U.S. taxpayer’s holding period for the Common Shares generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the highest tax applicable to ordinary income in each such prior year, and the U.S. taxpayer will be required to pay interest on the resulting tax liability for each such prior year, calculated as if such tax liability had been due in each such prior year. The amount of any such gain or excess distribution allocated to the tax year of disposition or distribution of the excess distribution and to years before the entity became a PFIC, if any, would be taxed as ordinary income. Alternatively, a U.S. taxpayer that makes a “qualified electing fund” (a “QEF”) election with respect to Cardero generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on such U.S. taxpayer’s pro rata share of Cardero’s “net capital gain” and “ordinary earnings” (as specifically defined and calculated under U.S. federal income tax rules), regardless of whether such amounts are actually distributed by Cardero. U.S. taxpayers should be aware, however, that there can be no assurance that Cardero will satisfy record keeping requirements under the QEF rules or that Cardero will supply U.S. taxpayers with required information under the QEF rules, if Cardero is a PFIC and a U.S. taxpayer wishes to make a QEF election. As a second alternative, a U.S. taxpayer may make a “mark-to-market election” if Cardero is a PFIC and the Common Shares are “marketable stock” (as specifically defined). A U.S. taxpayer that makes a mark-to-market election generally will include in gross income, for each taxable year in which Cardero is a PFIC, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the fair market value of the Common Shares as of the close of such taxable year over (b) such U.S. taxpayer’s adjusted tax basis in the Common Shares. This paragraph is qualified in its entirety by the discussion below under the heading “Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences.” Investors should consult their own tax advisor regarding the PFIC rules and other U.S. federal income tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership, and disposition of Common Shares. It may be difficult to enforce judgements against management or assets of the Company. As some of the assets of the Company are located outside of Canada and the United States, and certain of the directors and officers of Cardero are resident outside of Canada and/or the United States, it may be difficult or impossible to enforce judgements granted by a court in Canada or the United States against the assets of the Company or the directors and officers of Cardero residing outside of such country. 22 Some of the Company’s assets are located in countries where there may be significant political risk. The Company has mineral properties located in Argentina, the United States and Ghana. In such countries, mineral exploration and mining activities may be affected in varying degrees by political or economic instability, expropriation of property and changes in government regulations such as tax laws, business laws, environmental laws and mining laws. Any changes in regulations or shifts in political conditions are beyond the control of the Company and may materially adversely affect its business, or if significant enough, may make it impossible to continue to operate in certain countries. Operations may be affected in varying degrees by government regulations with respect to restrictions on production, price controls, foreign exchange restrictions, export controls, income taxes, expropriation of property, environmental legislation and mine safety. As a consequence of general economic conditions the Company may be faced with an inability to access capital in order to continue its operations. Since 2008, the U.S. credit markets have experienced serious disruption due to a deterioration in residential property values, defaults and delinquencies in the residential mortgage market (particularly, sub-prime and non-prime mortgages) and a decline in the credit quality of mortgage backed securities. These problems have led to a slow-down in residential housing market transactions, declining housing prices, delinquencies in non-mortgage consumer credit and a general decline in consumer confidence. These conditions caused a loss of confidence in the broader U.S. and global credit and financial markets and resulted in the collapse of, and government intervention in, major banks, financial institutions and insurers and created a climate of greater volatility, less liquidity, widening of credit spreads, a lack of price transparency, increased credit losses and tighter credit conditions. Notwithstanding various actions by the U.S. and foreign governments, concerns about the general condition of the capital markets, financial instruments, banks, investment banks, insurers and other financial institutions caused the broader credit markets to further deteriorate and stock markets to decline substantially. In addition, general economic indicators have deteriorated, including declining consumer sentiment, increased unemployment and declining economic growth and uncertainty about corporate earnings. While these conditions appear to have improved slightly in 2013, unprecedented disruptions in the credit and financial markets have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies. These disruptions could, among other things, make it more difficult for the Company to obtain, or increase its cost of obtaining, capital and financing for its operations. The Company’s access to additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to it or at all. Broker-dealers may be discouraged from effecting transactions in Common Shares because they are considered a penny stock and are subject to the penny stock rules. The Common Shares are considered to be a “penny stock”. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than USD 5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than USD 5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. The Common Shares are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors”. The term “accredited investor” refers generally to the categories of investors that satisfies Rule 501(a) under the Securities Act. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC, which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade the Common Shares. The Company believes that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of the Common Shares. 23 General economic conditions may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to continue in business. The recent unprecedented events in global financial markets have had a profound impact on the global economy. Many industries, including the gold and base metal mining industry, are impacted by these market conditions. Some of the key impacts of the current financial market turmoil include contraction in credit markets resulting in a widening of credit risk, devaluations and high volatility in global equity, commodity, foreign exchange and precious metal markets, and a lack of market liquidity. A continued or worsened slowdown in the financial markets or other economic conditions, including but not limited to, consumer spending, employment rates, business conditions, inflation, fuel and energy costs, consumer debt levels, lack of available credit, the state of the financial markets, interest rates, and tax rates may adversely affect the Company’s growth and profitability. Specifically: the global credit/liquidity crisis could impact the cost and availability of financing and the Company’s overall liquidity; the volatility of commodity prices may impact the Company’s future revenues, profits and cash flow; volatile energy prices, commodity and consumables prices and currency exchange rates impact potential production costs; and the devaluation and volatility of global stock markets impacts the valuation of the Common Shares, which may impact the Company’s ability to raise funds through the issuance of Common Shares. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Common Shares are currently being quoted on the OTCQB tier of the OTC Markets in the United States, as such, the liquidity of the Common Shares in the United States may be limited. The Common Shares were previously listed on the NYSE MKT in the United States. Effective November 26, 2013, the Common Shares have been quoted on the OTCQB tier of the OTC Markets (the “OTCQB”) in the United States. Stocks quoted on the OTCQB ordinarily have much lower trading volume than in other markets, such as the NYSE MKT, the Nasdaq Capital Market or the Nasdaq Global Market. Fewer market makers take interest in shares traded over-the-counter, and accordingly the markets for such shares are less orderly than is usual for NYSE MKT stocks. As a result of the low trading volumes ordinarily obtained in OTCQB and "pink sheet" markets, sales of the Common Shares in any significant amount could not be absorbed without a dramatic reduction in price. Moreover, thinly traded shares in the OTCQB and in the “pink sheet” markets are more susceptible to trading manipulations than is ordinarily the case for more actively traded shares. 24 The Company is involved in pending litigation which could have a material effect on its financial condition. On February 4, 2014, Gowling Lafleur Henderson LLP of Vancouver, BC filed a notice of civil claim in the Supreme Court of British Columbia against the Company seeking payment for certain legal fees and disbursements in respect of legal services rendered in the amount of $732,143.46 plus interest and costs. On February 11, 2014, Gowling Lafleur Henderson LLP obtained a Garnishing Order Before Judgement and served the same on the Company’s banker, resulting in the sum of approximately $109,000 in certain of the Company’s bank accounts (a combination of Canadian and United States currencies) being paid into court and therefore unavailable to the Company. On April 11, 2014, the Company applied to have the Garnishing Order set aside, and a decision on such application was reserved by the Court and has not yet been released. If the Garnishing Order is not set aside these funds will remain in court and unavailable to the Company until such time as the taxation of the Gowling Lafleur Henderson LLP accounts in question has been completed and may be paid out to Gowling Lafleur Henderson LLP depending upon the outcome of the taxation hearing. The taxation hearing is presently set for July 24, 2014, but may be delayed depending upon the availability of parties or for other reasons. On November 15, 2012, Carbon Mountain Drilling and Water Services Ltd. of Prince George, British Columbia (“Carbon Mountain”), filed a notice of civil claim in the Supreme Court of British Columbia against Cardero Coal seeking payment for certain drilling services rendered in 2011 in the amount of $770,393.48 plus damages for breach of contract and interest. On January 10, 2013 Cardero Coal filed a response to the civil claim disputing liability and the amount claimed and a counterclaim seeking damages for negligence, breach of contract and other relief. Carbon Mountain filed an answer to the counterclaim on May 13, 2013. If the Garnishing Order is not set aside and/or if Carbon Mountain is successful in its ligation efforts then the Company’s financial condition will further decline. (See – “Item 8.A - Consolidated Financial Statements and Other Financial Information – Litigation”) ITEM 