ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The risks set forth below may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to the risks set forth below and the other risks described in Item 1, Business, Forward-Looking Statements, and Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, there may also be additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. As a result, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Changes in Market Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations Our financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates because our assets, primarily loans, and our liabilities, primarily deposits, are monetary in nature. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates that are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Our net interest income is affected not only by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, including credit risk spreads, and by balance sheet growth, customer loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables which themselves are impacted by changes in market interest rates. As a result, changes in market interest rates can significantly impact our net interest income as well as the fair market valuation of our assets and liabilities. Our Nonresidential Real Estate Loans, Multi-family Mortgage Loans, Construction and Land Loans, Commercial Loans and Commercial Leases Expose Us to Increased Credit Risks At December 31, 2008 our portfolio of nonresidential real estate loans totaled $342.3 million, or 26.7% of total loans; our portfolio of multi-family mortgage loans totaled $305.3 million, or 23.8% of total loans; our portfolio of construction and land loans totaled $49.5 million, or 3.9% of total loans; our portfolio of commercial loans totaled $77.6 million, or 6.1% of total loans; and our portfolio of commercial leases totaled $175.8 million, or 13.7% of total loans. Though new loan activity in some categories will be more limited than others based on economic and market conditions, we plan to continue to originate these types of loans and retain them in our portfolio, although we may participate portions of some of these loans to other financial institutions. These types of loans may have greater credit risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful business operations of the borrower. These loans typically have larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Many of our borrowers also have more than one nonresidential real estate, multi-family mortgage, construction or commercial loan or lease outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development involving one or more loans or credit relationships can expose us to significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development involving a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Our Concentration of Loans within Certain Segments of the Healthcare Industry Exposes Us to Increased Credit Risk At December 31, 2008, we had $47.8 million of loans to healthcare providers, including loans to nursing homes and hospice care companies and leases to hospitals for equipment. These loans represented 3.7% of our total loan portfolio as of that date. Of these loans, $13.6 million, or 28.5%, were collateralized by real estate. The remainder consisted of working capital lines of credit secured by government accounts receivable, of which we are a joint payee, or by leased equipment. Loans to healthcare providers have unique credit risks. A healthcare provider’s income stream is subject to many factors beyond the control of the healthcare provider, including the risk that the provider will not be reimbursed for all services provided. The State of Illinois has experienced budget shortfalls in recent years, causing delays in state reimbursement for healthcare costs. Government reimbursement rates are also subject to change, including retroactive adjustments. For example, a significant overpayment to a healthcare 13 provider can result in the provider owing significant governmental repayments to the federal or state government. A healthcare provider’s profitability also depends on its ability to maintain certain levels of occupancy. Unexpected declines in occupancy rates can restrict a provider’s cash flow. Any of these factors can impair the ability of our healthcare provider borrowers to make loan repayments, which could result in significant loss to us. At December 31, 2008 we recorded a charge-off of $605,000 on a healthcare-related real estate loan, and established a specific loan loss reserve allowance in the amount of $714,000 for a second real estate loan to a healthcare provider and its affiliated entities with an aggregate principal balance of $4.2 million, due to ongoing cash flow and receivables lien priority issues, as well as the borrower’s inability to consummate pending facility sales transactions. The loans to this borrower are also partially secured by additional collateral consisting of certain personal liquid assets. If Our Allowance for Loan Losses is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, Our Earnings Could Decrease In the event that our loan customers do not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans is insufficient to cover any remaining loan balance, we could experience significant loan losses or increase our provision for loan losses or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets, if any, serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. At December 31, 2008, our allowance for loan losses was $14.7 million, representing 1.15% of total loans and 108.0% of nonperforming loans as of that date. In determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. We also make assumptions concerning our legal positions and the priority of our interests in contested legal or bankruptcy proceedings, and at times, we may lack sufficient information to establish specific reserves for loans involved in such proceedings. Difficult Economic Conditions Have Adversely Affected the Banking Industry The capital, credit and financial markets have experienced significant volatility and disruption for more than a year. These conditions have had significant adverse effects on our national and local economies, including declining real estate values, a widespread tightening of the availability credit, illiquidity in certain securities markets, increasing loan delinquencies, mortgage foreclosures, personal and business bankruptcies and unemployment rates, declining consumer confidence and spending, significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions and government-sponsored entities, and a reduction of manufacturing and service business activity and international trade. These conditions have also adversely affected the stock market generally, and have contributed to significant declines in the trading prices of financial institution stocks. We do not expect these difficult market conditions to improve over the short term, and a continuation or worsening of these conditions could exacerbate their adverse effects. The adverse effects of these condition could include increases in loan delinquencies and charge-offs, increases to the portion of our loan loss reserve that we base on national and local economic factors, increases to our specific loan loss reserves due to the impact of these conditions on specific borrowers or the collateral for their loans, declines in the value of our investment securities, increases in our cost of funds due continued aggressive deposit pricing by local and national competitors with liquidity needs, increases in regulatory and compliance costs, core deposit attrition due to this aggressive deposit pricing and/or consumer concerns about the safety of their deposits, and declines in the trading price of our common stock. There Can Be No Assurance that the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act Will Stabilize the U.S. Economy and Financial System The U.S. Congress enacted the EESA in response to the impact of the volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets on the financial sector. The U.S. Department of the Treasury (the “UST”) and the federal banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation that are intended to address these conditions and the asset quality, capital and liquidity issues they have caused for certain financial institutions and to improve the general availability of credit for consumers and businesses. In addition, the U.S. Congress recently enacted the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”) in an effort to save and create jobs, stimulate the U.S. economy and promote long-term growth and stability. There can be no assurance that EESA, ARRA or the 14 programs that are implemented under them will achieve their intended purposes. The failure of EESA, ARRA or the programs that are implemented under them to achieve their intended purposes could result in a continuation or worsening of current economic and market conditions, and this could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and/or the trading price of our common stock. Since Our Business is Concentrated in the Chicago Metropolitan Area, a Downturn in the Economy of This Area May Adversely Affect Our Business Although we make certain types of loans and leases to borrowers located in other states, our lending and deposit gathering activities are concentrated primarily in the Chicago metropolitan area. Our success depends on the general economic conditions of this area and surrounding areas. In addition, many of the loans in our loan portfolio are secured by real estate located in the Chicago metropolitan area. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could adversely affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors, including real estate supply and demand, changes in general or regional economic conditions and unemployment rates, interest rates, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. Adverse changes in the regional and general economy could also reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans and generally have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We Hold Certain Intangible Assets That Could Be Classified As Impaired In the Future. If These Assets Are Considered to Be Either Partially or Fully Impaired In The Future, Our Earnings Could Decrease Pursuant to SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, the Company tests its goodwill and core deposit intangible assets for impairment on a periodic basis. The impairment testing incorporates the current market price of the Company’s common shares, the estimated net present value of the Company’s assets and liabilities, and information concerning the terminal valuation of similarly-situated insured depository institutions. Given that the Company’s market value was below its tangible book value at December 31, 2008, and the material decline in the trading prices of the common shares of similarly-situated and other financial institutions that has resulted from, among other things, current economic conditions, instability in global financial systems and markets, and a decline in merger and acquisition activity due to asset valuation difficulties and the supply of assets and liabilities that is expected to result from FDIC liquidation activities, it is possible that future impairment testing could result in a partial or full impairment of the value of the Company’s goodwill or core deposit intangible assets, or both. If the Company determines that an impairment exists at a given point in time, the Company’s earnings and the book value of the related intangible asset(s) will be reduced by the amount of the impairment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the results of impairment testing on goodwill and core deposit intangible assets will have little or no impact on the Company’s tangible book value or regulatory capital levels. If Our Investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago Is Classified as Other-Than-Temporarily Impaired, Our Earnings Could Decrease We own common stock of the FHLBC. We hold the FHLBC common stock to qualify for membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to borrow funds under the FHLBC’s advance program. The aggregate cost and fair value of our FHLBC common stock as of December 31, 2008 was $15.6 million based on its par value. There is no market for our FHLBC common stock. Due to our receipt of stock dividends and a reduction of our outstanding FHLBC advances, we owned shares of FHLBC common stock at December 31, 2008 with a par value that was $6.2 million more than we were required to own to maintain our membership, in the Federal Home Loan Bank System and to be eligible to obtain advances (“excess” or “voluntary” capital stock). During 2006, the FHLBC undertook limited redemptions of excess or voluntary capital stock. We redeemed $9.8 million of excess or voluntary FHLBC capital stock in 2006. On October 10, 2007, the FHLBC entered into a consensual cease and desist order with the Federal Housing Finance Board, now known as the Federal Housing Finance Agency (“the FHFA”). Under the terms of the order, capital stock repurchases and redemptions, including redemptions upon membership withdrawal or other termination, are prohibited unless the FHLBC receives the prior approval of the Director of the Office of Supervision of the FHFA (the “Director”). The order also provides that dividend declarations are subject to the prior written approval of the 15 Director and required the FHLBC to submit a Capital Structure Plan to the FHFA. The FHLBC has not declared any dividends since the order was issued and it has not received approval of a Capital Structure Plan. In July of 2008, the FHFA amended the order to permit the FHLBC to repurchase or redeem newly-issued capital stock to support new advances, subject to certain conditions set forth in the order. Our FHLBC common stock is not newly-issued and is not affected by this amendment. Recent published reports indicate that certain member banks of the Federal Home Loan Bank System could have materially lower regulatory capital levels due to the application of certain accounting rules and asset quality issues. In an extreme situation, it is possible that the capitalization of a Federal Home Loan Bank, including the FHLBC, could be substantially diminished or reduced to zero. Our FHLBC common stock is accounted for in accordance with the AICPS Statement of Position (“SOP”) No. 01-6, Accounting by Certain Entities that Lend to or Finance the Activities of Others. SOP 01-6 provides that, for impairment testing purposes, the value of long term investments such as our FHLBC common stock is based on the “ultimate recoverability” of the par value of the security without regard to temporary declines in value. Consequently, if events occur that give rise to substantial doubt about the ultimate recoverability of the par value of our FHLBC common stock, this investment could be deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired, and the impairment loss that we would be required to record would cause our earnings to decrease by the after-tax amount of the impairment loss. Our Future Success Is Dependent On Our Ability to Compete Effectively In The Highly Competitive Banking Industry We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our geographic markets and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, brokerage houses, mutual funds, insurance companies, real estate conduits, and specialized finance companies. Many of our competitors offer products and services that we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources and lending limits, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller newer competitors may also be more aggressive in pricing loans and deposits in order to increase their market share. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the extensive regulations imposed on savings banks and their holding companies. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various financial services. Our Business May Be Adversely Affected by the Highly Regulated Environment In Which We Operate We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation, examination and supervision. Recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. Our success depends on our continued ability to comply with these laws and regulations. Some of these regulations may increase our costs. While we cannot predict what effect any future changes in these laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes or interpretations may adversely affect our future operations. Trading Activity in the Company’s Common Stock Could Result in Material Price Fluctuations It is possible that trading activity in the Company’s common stock, including short-selling or significant sales by current stockholders, could result in material price fluctuations of the price per share of the Company’s common stock. In addition, such trading activity and the resultant volatility could make it more difficult for the Company to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price it deems appropriate, or to use its stock as consideration for an acquisition. See “Our Ability to Successfully Conduct Acquisitions Will Affect Our Ability to Grow Our Franchise and Compete Effectively in Our Marketplace”. 16 Our Return on Stockholders’ Equity Will Continue to Be Low Due to Our High Capital Level Net income divided by average stockholders’ equity, known as return on equity, is a ratio that many investors use to compare the performance of a financial institution to its peers. Our capital remains relatively high by industry standards pending a more optimal deployment of the additional capital raised in our 2005 mutual-to-stock conversion. Until we can increase our net interest income and noninterest income, we expect our return on equity to continue to be below the historical industry average, which may negatively affect the value of our shares of common stock. The Bank’s Ability to Pay Dividends is Subject to Regulatory Limitations Which, to the Extent the Company Requires Such Dividends in the Future, May Affect its Ability to Pay Dividends The Company is a separate legal entity from its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations of its own. Dividends from the Bank provide a significant source of cash for the Company. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. Under the rules of the OTS, the Bank is not permitted to pay dividends on its capital stock to the Company, its sole stockholder, if the dividend would reduce the Bank’s stockholder’s equity below the amount of the liquidation account established in connection with the mutual-to-stock conversion. The Bank may pay dividends without the approval of the OTS only if the Bank meets its applicable regulatory capital requirements before and after the payment of the dividends and its total dividends do not exceed its net income to date over the calendar year plus retained net income over the preceding two years. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the OTS could assert that the payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice or refuse to issue any required prior approvals. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to pay dividends on its common stock. Consequently, the potential inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We Continually Encounter Technological Change, and May Have Fewer Resources Than Many of Our Competitors to Continue to Invest In Technological Improvements The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Our Ability to Successfully Conduct Acquisitions Will Affect Our Ability to Grow Our Franchise and Compete Effectively in Our Marketplace On April 5, 2006, we completed the acquisition of University National Bank. We will also consider the possible acquisition of other banks, thrifts and other financial services companies in private or FDIC-assisted transactions to supplement internal growth. Our efforts to acquire other financial institutions and financial service companies may not be successful. Other potential acquirors exist for most acquisition candidates, creating competition that can affect the purchase price for which the institution can be acquired. In many cases, our competitors have significantly greater resources than we have, and greater flexibility to structure the consideration for the transaction. We may not participate in specific acquisition opportunities if we consider the proposed transaction unacceptable. We also may not be the successful bidder in acquisition opportunities that we pursue due to the willingness or ability of other potential acquirors to propose a higher purchase price or more attractive terms and conditions than we are willing or able to propose. If we are unable to or do not conduct acquisitions to supplement internal growth, our ability to deploy effectively the capital we raised in the offering, expand our geographic presence and improve our results of operations could be adversely affected. 17 The Risks Presented by the Acquisition of Other Institutions Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Condition and Results of Operations If we are successful in conducting acquisitions, we will be presented with many risks that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. An institution that we acquire may have unknown asset quality issues or unknown or contingent liabilities that we did not discover or fully recognize in the due diligence process, thereby resulting in unanticipated losses. The acquisition of other institutions typically requires the integration of different corporate cultures, loan and deposit products, pricing strategies, data processing systems and other technologies, accounting, internal audit and financial reporting systems, operational processes, policies, procedures and internal controls, marketing programs and personnel of the acquired institution in order to make the transaction economically advantageous. The integration process is complicated and time consuming, and could divert our attention from other business concerns and be disruptive to our customers and the customers of the acquired institution. Our failure to successfully integrate an acquired institution could result in the loss of key customers and employees, and prevent us from achieving expected synergies and cost savings. Acquisitions also result in professional fees, purchase price adjustments, the amortization of core deposit intangibles and other expenses that could adversely affect our earnings, and in goodwill that could become impaired, requiring us to recognize further charges. We may finance acquisitions with borrowed funds, thereby increasing our leverage and reducing our liquidity, or with potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. FDIC Deposit Insurance Premiums Have Increased and May Increase Further in the Future The Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, requires the FDIC to maintain a reserve ratio between 1.15 and 1.50 percent. The FDIC’s board of directors must establish a designated reserve ratio within that range and sets assessment rates to meet that target within a time-frame that the board deems appropriate. If the reserve ratio falls below 1.15 percent, the FDIC’s board is required to establish a restoration plan to bring the reserve ratio back to 1.15 percent within five years. The FDIC’s reserve ratio has declined over the past year due to costs associated with bank failures and FDIC-assisted transactions, and the reserve ratio is expected to continue to decline due to future bank failures and FDIC-assisted transactions. In addition, the FDIC basic insurance coverage limit was temporarily increased to $250,000 through December 31, 2009, and certain types of deposit accounts will have unlimited deposit insurance coverage through that date. These increases have increased the aggregate amount of deposits that the FDIC insures and thus have exposed the FDIC’s deposit insurance fund to potentially greater losses. The FDIC has adopted a plan to restore the reserve ratio to the required level by increasing the deposit insurance assessment rates that it currently charges to insured depository institutions. See “Supervision and Regulation – Insurance of Deposit Accounts.” Any increase will have an adverse impact on our results of operations in 2009 and in future years, and if the FDIC is required to increase its deposit insurance assessment rate beyond the levels currently contemplated, the adverse impact will be exacerbated. Various Factors May Make Takeover Attempts That You Want to Succeed More Difficult to Achieve, Which May Affect the Value of Shares of Our Common Stock Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Maryland law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of the Company without the consent of our board of directors. You may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquiror could offer a premium over the then prevailing price of our shares of common stock. The OTS regulations prohibit the direct or indirect acquisition of more than 10% of any class of equity security of a converted savings institution without the prior approval of the OTS. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws also may make it difficult to remove our current board of directors or management if our board of directors opposes the removal. We have elected to be subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act, which places restrictions on mergers and other business combinations with large stockholders. In addition, our articles of incorporation provide that certain mergers and other similar transactions, as well as amendments to our articles of incorporation, must be approved by stockholders owning at least two-thirds of our shares of common stock entitled to vote on the matter unless first approved by at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies. If approved by at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies, the action must still be approved by a majority of our shares entitled to vote on the matter. In addition, a director can be removed from office, but only for cause, if such removal is approved by stockholders owning at least two-thirds of our shares of common stock entitled to vote on the matter. However, if at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors 18 (assuming no vacancies) approves the removal of a director, the removal may be with or without cause, but must still be approved by a majority of our voting shares entitled to vote on the matter. Additional provisions include limitations on the voting rights of any beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock. Our bylaws, which can only be amended by the board of directors, also contain provisions regarding the timing, content and procedural requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. Non-Compliance with USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, or Other Laws and Regulations Could Result in Fines or Sanctions, and Curtail Expansion Opportunities Financial institutions are required under the USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money laundering and terrorist activities. Financial institutions are also obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network if such activities are detected. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure or the inability to comply with these regulations could result in fines or penalties, curtailment of expansion opportunities, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. During the last few years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. We have developed policies and continue to augment procedures and systems designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 