ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities is subject to risks inherent in our business and the industry in which we operate. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and all other information included in this report. The risks described below may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition to these risks and the other risks and uncertainties described in Item 1, “Business—Forward Looking Statements,” and Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or operating results. The value or market price of our securities could decline due to any of these identified or other risks. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Continued deterioration in the real estate markets could lead to additional loan losses, which could have a material negative effect on our financial condition and results of operations At December 31, 2011, our loan portfolio included $423.6 million in multi-family mortgage loans, or 33.7% of total loans, $311.6 million in nonresidential real estate loans, or 24.8% of total loans, $248.4 million in non-owner occupied nonresidential real estate loans, or 19.7% of total loans, $272.0 million in residential real estate loans, or 21.6% of total loans, $80.6 million in non-owner occupied residential real estate loans, 6.4% of total loans, and $19.9 million in construction and land loans, or 1.6% of total loans. The commercial, multi-family and residential real estate markets in the Chicago area continue to experience a variety of difficulties, including a continuing decline in real estate valuations and an oversupply of properties in certain segments of the Chicago market due to economic conditions and a high level of foreclosed properties and properties in the process of foreclosure. These adverse conditions have had a variety of adverse consequences for both lenders and borrowers, including a reduction in the value of real estate collateral and OREO, an increase in loan to value ratios, higher vacancy rates and lower rents, a reduction of the borrowing capacity of real estate borrowers and an increase in strategic defaults resulting from the reduction or elimination of the equity that borrowers once had in their real estate investments. As a result of these and other factors, we have experienced higher levels of charge-offs, loan classifications and provisions for loan losses on our real estate loans. The persistence of these adverse conditions could result in additional defaults, charge-offs, provisions for loan losses and loan classifications. 12 Since our business is concentrated in the Chicago Metropolitan Area, local economic conditions can adversely affect our business Although we make certain types of loans and leases to borrowers located in other states, our lending and deposit gathering activities are concentrated primarily in the Chicago metropolitan area. Our success can be affected by the general economic conditions of this area and surrounding areas. In addition, many of the loans in our loan portfolio are secured by real estate located in the Chicago metropolitan area. Negative conditions in the real estate markets where collateral for a mortgage loan is located could adversely affect the borrower’s ability to repay the loan and the value of the collateral securing the loan. Real estate values are affected by various other factors beyond our control, including real estate supply and demand, the impact of mortgage foreclosures and short sales, changes in general or regional economic conditions and unemployment rates, interest rates, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. The value of real estate located in many segments of the Chicago metropolitan area has been and continues to be adversely impacted by many of these factors, and this has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our loan growth, our ability to collect certain loans according to their terms, and our results of operations. The increase in our multifamily real estate and commercial real estate loans as a percentage of total capital may increase our risk of loss and subject us to more regulatory scrutiny Commercial real estate concentrations make institutions more vulnerable to economic downturns and cyclical real estate markets, and also increase the potential for loan losses if underwriting is not strong or if risk monitoring and mitigation techniques are ineffective. The OCC recently issued updated guidance emphasizing the importance of internal processes designed to identify, measure, monitor, and control concentrations of credit. In addition, the OCC and the other federal bank regulatory agencies have promulgated joint guidance requiring financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate loans to employ enhanced risk management, monitoring and underwriting practices. Under the joint guidance, the agencies view multi-family, commercial real estate and land loans in excess of 300% of an institution’s capital, coupled with growth in these loan categories of 50% or more over the past 36 months, to be an indicator that the institution is potentially exposed to commercial real estate concentration risk. These criteria are not limits on commercial real estate lending activity and do not serve as a “safe harbor” if other risk indicators are present. However, they do affect the level of regulatory scrutiny and oversight an institution will receive with respect to its commercial real estate lending activities. Although the Bank’s multi-family and commercial real estate loans had not increased by 50% or more over the 36 months preceding December 31, 2011, these loan types together exceeded 300% of the Bank’s total capital at that date, primarily due to the consummation of the Downers Grove National Bank acquisition and the Citibank multifamily loan purchase in March of 2011. As a result, a further decline in commercial real estate values in our markets could have a significant impact on the value of the collateral for our loans and OREO, the financial strength of our borrowers, our operating results and the level of regulatory scrutiny and oversight that we receive. We manage this risk by, among other things, employing underwriting and risk identification, measurement, monitoring and control techniques that we believe are appropriate, and we are updating those techniques in light of the updated OCC guidance. However, these techniques and the judgments that accompany them will not always be capable of anticipating every economic and financial outcome in all market environments, or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Current economic conditions present higher risks to our loan portfolio Current economic conditions, including high unemployment rates, weakened consumer and business spending and materially declining real estate values, all present risks to our loan portfolio. Our historical loan underwriting standards presumed a reasonable range of economic and operating conditions for our borrowers and their underlying business or personal circumstances. The depth and speed of the decline in economic activity exceeded, and will continue to exceed, the financial and management capabilities of certain borrowers to meet their credit obligations. Furthermore, the decline in real estate values in all market segments not only diminishes an important source of repayment, but also diminishes the economic interest of borrowers in investing additional financial resources into their businesses or residences. Though the risk of a sudden and catastrophic event in financial markets appears to have receded, persistently weak economic growth in the U.S. and certain of its trading partners will continue to depress the operating results of certain commercial borrowers. Standard & Poor’s lowered its long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States from AAA to AA+ in the third quarter of 2011. A further downgrade or a downgrade by other rating agencies could have a material adverse impact on financial markets and economic conditions in the United States and worldwide. These factors and prudent loan portfolio management have also combined to reduce the overall level of acceptable credit exposures available in the market, resulting in lower loan portfolio balances and reduced interest income from the loan portfolio. 13 Repayment of our commercial and commercial real estate loans typically depends on the cash flows of the borrower. If a borrower’s cash flows weaken or become uncertain, the loan may need to be classified and the collateral securing the loan may decline in value We underwrite our commercial and commercial real estate loans primarily based on the historical and expected cash flow of the borrower. Although we consider collateral in the underwriting process, it is a secondary consideration that generally relates to the risk of loss in the event of a borrower default. We have also adopted the OCC’s published guidance for assigning risk-ratings to loans, and it emphasizes the strength of the borrower’s cash flow. Specifically, the OCC’s loan risk-rating guidance provides that the primary consideration in assigning risk-ratings to commercial and commercial real estate loans is the strength of the primary source of repayment, which is defined as a sustainable source of cash under the borrower’s control that is reserved, explicitly or implicitly, to cover the debt obligation. The OCC’s loan risk-rating guidance typically does not consider secondary repayment sources until the strength of the primary repayment source weakens, and collateral values typically do not have a significant impact on a loan’s risk ratings until a loan is classified. Consequently, if a borrower’s cash flows weaken or become uncertain, the loan may need to be classified, whether or not the loan is performing or fully secured. In addition, real estate appraisers typically place significant weight on the cash flows generated by income-producing real estate and the reliability of the cash flows in performing valuations. Thus, economic or borrower-specific conditions that cause a decline in borrower cash flows could cause our loan classifications to increase and the value of the collateral securing our loans to decline. Changes in market interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations Our financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates because our assets, primarily loans, and our liabilities, primarily deposits, are monetary in nature. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates that are affected by many factors beyond our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in the United States and other financial markets. Our net interest income is affected not only by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, including credit risk spreads, and by balance sheet growth, customer loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables which themselves are impacted by changes in market interest rates. As a result, changes in market interest rates can significantly affect our net interest income as well as the fair market valuation of our assets and liabilities. Historically low interest rates may adversely affect our net interest income and profitability In recent years it has been the policy of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to maintain interest rates at historically low levels through its targeted federal funds rate and the purchase of mortgage-backed securities. As a result, interest rates on the loans we have originated and the yields on securities we have purchased during this period have been at historically low levels. As a general matter, our interest-bearing liabilities re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning assets, which has resulted in increases in net interest income in the short term. However, our ability to lower our interest expense is limited at these interest rate levels while the average yield on our interest-earning assets may continue to decrease. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has indicated its intention to maintain low interest rates in the near future. Accordingly, our net interest income (the difference between interest income earned on assets and interest expense paid on liabilities) may decrease, which may have an adverse affect on our profitability. Future changes in non-performing loan resolution or OREO disposition strategies could result in net sales proceeds that differ from fair value appraisals OREO consists of properties that we acquire through foreclosure or other collection actions. OREO properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loans for which the properties served as collateral or their estimated fair value, less estimated selling costs. Appraisals of OREO typically assume that the property will be disposed of in an orderly liquidation unless a different disposition strategy is specified to the appraiser. We may from time to time consider disposition strategies other than orderly liquidation as part of our strategy to reduce nonperforming assets, including bulk sales and auctions. In such an event, the net sales proceeds realized could differ significantly from estimates that were used to determine the fair value of the properties. 14 If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover actual loan losses, our earnings could decrease In the event that our loan customers do not repay their loans according to their terms, and the collateral securing the repayment of these loans is insufficient to cover any remaining loan balance, we could experience significant loan losses or increase our provision for loan losses or both, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. At December 31, 2011, our allowance for loan losses was $31.7 million, representing 2.52% of total loans and 41.2% of nonperforming loans as of that date. In determining the amount of our allowance for loan losses, we rely on our loan quality reviews, our experience and our evaluation of economic conditions, among other factors. In addition, we make various estimates and assumptions about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of the real estate and other assets, if any, serving as collateral for the repayment of our loans. We also make judgments concerning our legal positions and the priority of our interests in contested legal or bankruptcy proceedings, and at times, we may lack sufficient information to establish specific reserves for loans involved in such proceedings. We base these estimates, assumptions and judgments on information that we consider reliable, but if an estimate, assumption or judgment that we make ultimately proves to be incorrect, additional provisions to our allowance for loan losses may become necessary. In addition, as an integral part of their supervisory and/or examination process, our regulatory agencies periodically review the methodology and sufficiency of the allowance for loan losses. These agencies may require us to recognize additions to the allowance based on their inclusion, exclusion or modification of risk factors or differences in judgments of information available to them at the time of their examination. Our business may be adversely affected by the new regulatory environment in which we operate The Dodd–Frank Act, which was signed by the President on July 21, 2010, provided for the transfer of the authority for regulating and supervising federal savings banks from the OTS to the OCC, and the authority for regulating and supervising savings and loan holding companies and their non–depository subsidiaries from the OTS to the FRB. The transfer occurred on July 21, 2011, and on that date, the OCC became the primary federal regulator of the Bank and the FRB became the primary federal regulator of the Company. The transition of the Company and the Bank to this new supervisory and regulatory structure presents risks, potential limitations and adjustments that were not present when the Company and the Bank were supervised and regulated exclusively by the OTS. For example, the OCC’s published guidance and practices for assigning risk ratings to commercial loans focuses more heavily on cash flows than the loan risk rating guidance and practices of the OTS, and requires that a performing loan be classified if it exhibits well-defined weaknesses, even if the loan does not present a probability of default or loss. The OCC’s more stringent loan risk-rating practices have contributed to the increase in the Bank’s classified loans and have increased the Bank’s risk of being subjected to supervisory measures. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board takes a more comprehensive approach than the OTS did to holding company supervision and regulation. For example, the Company is now subject to Federal Reserve Board Supervisory Letter SR 09-4, which has the effect of imposing restrictions on dividends and stock repurchases in certain circumstances. The Company does not have sufficient net income for the past four quarters net of dividends previously paid to declare a dividend without first consulting with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago in accordance with Supervisory Letter SR 09-4. The Company’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock could be further limited by the application of the Federal Reserve Board’s source of strength doctrine, which requires holding companies to provide financial support to their subsidiary depository institutions if the subsidiary is in financial distress, or by regulatory order. The Company also believes that Supervisory Letter SR 09-4 currently will serve to limit its ability to engage in share repurchases. These regulatory changes have affected, and will continue to affect, the regulatory environment in which we operate. The legislation creating the new regulatory environment also will affect capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations The Dodd-Frank Act affects the lending, deposit, investment, and operating activities of insured depository institutions and their holding companies in many ways other than regulatory structure. For example, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the adoption of new capital regulations, and they must be at least as stringent as, and may call for higher levels of capital than, current regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act also eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending 15 on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. The Dodd-Frank Act authorized the Federal Reserve Board to establish rules regarding interchange fees charged for an electronic debit transaction by a payment card issuer and to enforce a new statutory requirement that such fees be reasonable and proportional to the actual cost of a transaction to the issuer. By regulation, the Federal Reserve Board has limited the fees for such a transaction to the sum of 21 cents plus five basis points times the value of the transaction, plus up to one cent for fraud prevention costs. The regulation applies only to institutions with more than $10 billion in assets and is not yet clear what practical impact, if any, this limitation will have on smaller institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act also created a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. Although the Bureau’s examination and enforcement authority is limited to banks with more than $10 billion in assets, its rule-making and investigative authority is likely to have an impact on smaller institutions. Many aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to rulemaking and will take effect over several years, making it difficult to anticipate the overall financial and operational impact. Compliance and operating costs associated with the Dodd-Frank Act could have a material adverse effect on our future financial condition and results of operations. Our sources of funds are limited because of our holding company structure The Company is a separate legal entity from its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations of its own. Dividends from the Bank provide a significant source of cash for the Company. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. Under these statutes and regulations, the Bank is not permitted to pay dividends on its capital stock to the Company, its sole stockholder, if the dividend would reduce the stockholders’ equity of the Bank below the amount of the liquidation account established in connection with the mutual-to-stock conversion. The Bank may pay dividends without the approval of its primary federal regulator only if the Bank meets its applicable regulatory capital requirements before and after the payment of the dividends and its total dividends do not exceed its net income to date over the calendar year plus its retained net income over the preceding two years. Although the Bank’s capital exceeded applicable regulatory requirements at December 31, 2011, the Bank did not have sufficient net income over the preceding two years to pay a dividend to the Company without the prior approval of the OCC. If in the future, the Company utilizes its available cash for other purposes and the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, the Company may not have sufficient funds to pay dividends. Conditions in the market may limit our access to additional funding to meet our liquidity needs Liquidity is essential to the banking business, as we must maintain sufficient funds to respond to the needs of depositors and borrowers. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings or the sale or pledging as collateral of loans and other assets could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance our activities could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry generally. Factors that could negatively affect our access to liquidity sources include a decrease in the level of our business activity due to a market downturn or negative regulatory action against us. Our ability to borrow could also be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as severe disruption of the financial markets or negative news and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry as a whole, as evidenced by recent turmoil in the domestic and worldwide credit markets. FDIC deposit insurance costs have increased and may increase further in the future FDIC insurance rates increased significantly in 2009, and we may pay higher FDIC deposit premiums in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35% as the minimum Designated Reserve Ratio (“DRR”) for the deposit insurance fund. The FDIC has determined that the DRR should be 2.0% and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum DRR of 1.35% by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the statutory minimum DRR to 1.35% from the former statutory minimum of 1.15%. The FDIC has not announced how it will implement this offset. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the FDIC to base deposit insurance premium on an institution’s total assets minus its tangible equity instead of its deposits. The FDIC has adopted regulations that base assessments for banks with total assets of $10 billion or more on a scorecard method that takes into account a performance score and a loss severity score. These factors create a risk that our FDIC deposit insurance premiums 16 will increase. The increases that have occurred to date have had an adverse impact on our results of operations and will continue to have an adverse impact in future years. If circumstances require the FDIC to impose additional special assessments or further increase its quarterly assessment rates, the adverse impact will be exacerbated. New or changing tax, accounting, and regulatory rules and interpretations could have a significant impact on our strategic initiatives, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition The banking services industry is extensively regulated and the degree of regulation is increasing due to the Dodd-Frank Act and regulatory initiatives precipitated by the Dodd-Frank Act and the economic downturn and the resulting disruptions that certain financial markets experienced. These regulations, along with the currently existing tax, accounting, securities, insurance, and monetary laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations, control the methods by which financial institutions and their holding companies conduct business, engage in strategic and tax planning and implement strategic initiatives, and govern financial reporting and disclosures. These laws, regulations, rules, standards, policies and interpretations are constantly evolving and may change significantly over time. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry and Chicago banking market We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business successfully by focusing on our geographic markets and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, brokerage houses, mutual funds, insurance companies, real estate conduits, and specialized finance companies. Many of our competitors offer products and services that we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources and lending limits, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller newer competitors may be more aggressive in pricing loans and deposits in order to increase their market share. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the extensive regulations imposed on federal savings banks and their holding companies. As a result, these nonbank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various financial services. Trading activity in the Company’s common stock could result in material price fluctuations It is possible that trading activity in the Company’s common stock, including short-selling or significant sales by our larger stockholders, could result in material price fluctuations of the price per share of the Company’s common stock. In addition, such trading activity and the resultant volatility could make it more difficult for the Company to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price it deems appropriate, or to use its stock as consideration for an acquisition. Various factors may make takeover attempts that you want to succeed more difficult to achieve, which may affect the value of shares of our common stock Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws, federal regulations, Maryland law and various other factors may make it more difficult for companies or persons to acquire control of the Company without the consent of our board of directors. You may want a takeover attempt to succeed because, for example, a potential acquiror could offer a premium over the then prevailing price of our shares of common stock. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws also may make it difficult to remove our current board of directors or management if our board of directors opposes the removal. We have elected to be subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act, which places restrictions on mergers and other business combinations with large stockholders. In addition, our articles of incorporation provide that certain mergers and other similar transactions, as well as amendments to our articles of incorporation, must be approved by stockholders owning at least two-thirds of our shares of common stock entitled to vote on the matter unless first approved by at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies. If approved by at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies, the action must still be approved by a majority of our shares entitled to vote on the matter. In addition, a director can be removed from office, but only for cause, if such removal is approved by stockholders 17 owning at least two-thirds of our shares of common stock entitled to vote on the matter. However, if at least two-thirds of the number of our authorized directors, assuming no vacancies, approves the removal of a director, the removal may be with or without cause, but must still be approved by a majority of our voting shares entitled to vote on the matter. Additional provisions include limitations on the voting rights of any beneficial owners of more than 10% of our common stock. Our bylaws, which can only be amended by the board of directors, also contain provisions regarding the timing, content and procedural requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations. The Bank is required to maintain a significant percentage of its total assets in residential mortgage loans and investments secured by residential mortgage loans, which restricts our ability to diversify our loan portfolio A federal savings bank or thrift differs from a commercial bank in that it is required to maintain at least 65% of its total assets in “qualified thrift investments” which generally include loans and investments, for the purchase, refinance, construction, improvement, or repair of residential real estate, as well as home equity loans, education loans and small business loans. To maintain our federal savings bank charter we have to be a “qualified thrift lender” or “QTL” in nine out of each 12 immediately preceding months. The QTL requirement limits the extent to which we can grow our commercial loan portfolio, and as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, failing the QTL test can result in an enforcement action. However, multi-family mortgage loans as well as certain loans not exceeding $2 million (including a group of loans to one borrower) that are for commercial, corporate, business, or agricultural purposes are included in our qualified thrift investments. Because of the QTL requirement, we may be limited in our ability to change our asset mix and increase the yield on our earning assets by growing our commercial loan portfolio. We continually encounter technological change, and may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We also may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology We depend on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our data processing systems, computers, networks and communications systems. Although we take numerous protective measures and otherwise endeavor to protect and maintain the privacy and security of confidential data, these systems may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have a security impact. If one or more of such events were to occur, this potentially could jeopardize confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our systems or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our or our customers’ operations. We may be required to expend significant additional resources to modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and financial losses that are not fully covered by our insurance. Security breaches in our internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and deter customers from using our systems. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not fully protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Although we perform most data processing functions internally, we outsource certain services to third parties. If our third party providers encounter operational difficulties or security breaches, it could affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which could significantly affect our business operations. 18 Non-Compliance with USA PATRIOT Act, Bank Secrecy Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, Truth-in-Lending Act or other laws and regulations could result in fines or sanctions Financial institutions are required under the USA PATRIOT and Bank Secrecy Acts to develop programs to prevent financial institutions from being used for money-laundering and terrorist activities. Financial institutions are also obligated to file suspicious activity reports with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Financial Crimes Enforcement Network if such activities are detected. These rules also require financial institutions to establish procedures for identifying and verifying the identity of customers seeking to open new financial accounts. Failure or the inability to comply with these regulations could result in fines or penalties, curtailment of expansion opportunities, intervention or sanctions by regulators and costly litigation or expensive additional controls and systems. During the last few years, several banking institutions have received large fines for non-compliance with these laws and regulations. In addition, the U.S. Government imposed and will continue to expand laws and regulations relating to residential and consumer lending activities that create significant new compliance burdens and financial risks. We have developed policies and continue to augment procedures and systems designed to assist in compliance with these laws and regulations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 