ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 2 PROPERTIES ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ITEM 4 MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ITEM 7 MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ITEM 8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA ITEM 9 CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES ITEM 9B OTHER INFORMATION PART III ITEM 10 DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ITEM 11 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ITEM 12 SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS ITEM 13 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE ITEM 14 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES PART IV ITEM 15 EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES SIGNATURES Except as otherwise indicated by the context, references in this Form 10-K to: ·“U.S. Dollar,” “$” and “US$” mean the legal currency of the United States of America. ·“RMB” means Renminbi, the legal currency of China. ·“China” or the “PRC” are references to the People’s Republic of China. ·“SEC” is a reference to the Securities & Exchange Commission of the United States of America. This report contains additional trade names and trademarks of other companies. We do not intend our use or display of other companies’ trade names or trademarks to imply an endorsement of us by such companies, or any relationship with any of these companies. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to, statements regarding our future financial position, business strategy and plans and objectives of management for future operations. When used in this filing, the words believe, may, will, estimate, continue, anticipate, intend, expect, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our financial condition, results of operations, business strategy, short-term and long-term business operations and objectives, and financial needs. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to the risks discussed under the heading “Risk Factors”. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update these forward-looking statements publicly or to update the reasons actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the forward-looking events and circumstances discussed in this annual report may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. 1 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS OUR COMPANY We are a leading residential developer with a focus on fast growing Tier II and Tier III cities in western China. We are dedicated to providing quality, and affordable housing to middle class families. The majority of our customers are first time home buyers and first time up-graders, who, we believe, will benefit from China’s rapid gross domestic product (“GDP”) growth and the middle classes’ corresponding increase in purchasing power. We commenced our operations in Xi’an in 1999 and have been considered one of the industry leaders and one of the largest private residential developers in the region. We have experienced significant growth in the past 13 years and have developed over 1.5 million square meters of residential projects. Through the utilization of modern design and technology, as well as a strict cost control system, we are able to offer our customers high quality, cost-effective products. Most of our projects are designed by world-class architecture firms from the United States, Canada and Europe that have introduced advanced “eco” and “green” technologies into our projects. As we are focusing primarily on the demand from first time home buyers and first time up-graders in western China, the majority of our apartments range in size from 70 square meters to 120 square meters; with such sizes considered to be a stable market section of the residential real estate market in western China. Our typical residential project is approximately 100,000 square meters in size and consists of multiple high-rise, middle-rise and low-rise buildings as well as a community center, commercial units, educational facilities (such as kindergartens) and other auxiliary facilities. In addition, we provide property management services to our developments and have exclusive membership systems for our customers. We typically generate a large portion of our sales through referrals from our existing customers. We acquire our land reserves and development sites primarily from the local government, open-market auctions, acquisitions of old factories from the government and acquisitions of distressed assets from commercial banks. We do not depend on a single method of land acquisition, which enables us to acquire land at reasonable costs and, generally enables us to generate higher returns from our developments. We intend to continue our expansion into other strategically selected cities in western China by leveraging our brand name and scalable business model. Our Strategies We are primarily focused on the development, construction, management and sale of residential real estate properties to capitalize on the rising demand for real estate from China’s emerging middle class. We seek to become the market leader in western China and plan to implement the following specific strategies to achieve our goal: Consolidate through Acquisition and Partnership. Currently, the residential real estate market in western China is fragmented with many small players. We believe that this market fragmentation will provide us with opportunities for acquisitions or partnerships. We believe acquisitions will provide us better leverage in negotiations and better economies of scale. Expand into Other Tier II and Tier III Cities. We believe our proven business model and expertise can be replicated in other Tier II and Tier III cities, especially in western China. For example, in 2011, we entered into the Ankang city market for a residential project. Furthermore, we have identified certain other cities that possess attractive replication dynamics. Continue to Focus on the Middle Market. Since the middle class has growing purchasing power and, as a result of prevailing Chinese culture and values, a strong desire to own homes, we believe the demands for residential real estate from the emerging middle class will offer attractive opportunities for the growth of our Company. Thus, we plan to leverage our brand name, experience and design capabilities to meet this middle class demands. Our Competitive Strengths We believe we have the following competitive strengths that will enable us to compete effectively and to capitalize on the growth opportunities in our market: Leading position in our market and industry We are one of the largest private residential real estate developers in western China. We believe that we have strong design and sales capabilities as well as a well-regarded brand name in the region. Due to strong local project experience and long-term relationships with the central and local governments, we have been able to acquire significant land assets at reasonable costs, thereby providing a strong pipeline of potential future business and revenue over the next three to five years. 2 Attractive market opportunity The real estate market in western China has grown slower than that of eastern China. We believe the region is well positioned to grow at faster rates for the next few years due to social and economic factors. Our business model has proven to be efficient and we plan to expand into other Tier II and Tier III cities in western China. Our growth strategy is focused on western China, and we believe we will significantly benefit from the Chinese government’s “Go West” policy, which encourages economic development in and population movement to western China. Unique and proven business model Due to strong local project experience and long-term working relationships with the central and local governments, we generally have been able to acquire land assets at prices more reasonable than those obtained by our competitors. We are primarily focused on capitalizing on rising demand for properties from China’s emerging middle class, which has significant purchasing power and a strong demand for residential housing. In order to leverage our brand to appeal to the middle class, we use various advertising media to market our property developments and to reach our target demographic, including newspapers, magazines, television, radio, e-marketing and outdoor billboards. We believe that our brand is widely recognized in our market and is known for high quality products at cost-effective prices. Experienced management team We have an experienced management team with a proven track record of developing and expanding our operations. Our four primary officers have more than 70 years of experience developing residential properties. As a result, we have developed extensive core competencies that are supplemented by in-house training and development programs. We believe that our management’s core competencies, extensive industry experience and long-term vision and strategy will enable us to effectively realize growth opportunities. Greater access to financing through multiple channels We enjoy multiple long-term relationships with a number of high quality Chinese banks and these relationships ensure timely access to capital. Our loan facilities are mainly used for development projects and the day to day operation our business. Besides traditional banks, we also work with other financial institutions, such as trust companies and real estate funds to diversity our funding channels and risks. Corporate History We are a Nevada company and conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in China. We were incorporated in the state of Nevada on July 6, 2004, as Pacific Northwest Productions Inc. On May 5, 2006, we changed our name to China Housing & Land Development, Inc. Currently we own 8 operating subsidiaries, 3 Hong Kong Special Purpose Vehicles (“SPV”) and 3 British Virgin Island holding companies (“BVI”). The BVI holding companies and Hong Kong SPVs are used as holding companies. On April 21, 2006, we acquired 100% of the shares of Xi’an Tsining Housing Development Co., Ltd (“Tsining”) through a share purchase agreement. On March 9, 2007, we acquired 100% of the shares of Xi’an New Land Development Co., Ltd. (“New Land”). On November 5, 2008, the Company and Prax Capital entered into a Joint Venture agreement to set up Puhua (Xi’an) Real Estate Development Co., Ltd.(“Puhua”). On May 10, 2010, the Company signed an Amended and Restated Shareholders’ Agreement with Prax Capital which became effective on January 1, 2010. The Company was committed to redeeming Prax’s investment. Thus, the Company acquired 100% ownership of Puhua in 2010. On January 20, 2009, we signed an equity purchase agreement with the shareholders of Xi’an Xinxing Property Management Co., Ltd. (“Xinxing Property”) and acquired 100% ownership of Xinxing Property. On January 15, 2010, we acquired 100% ownership of Suodi Co., Ltd., (“Suodi”). On March 31, 2010, we incorporated Xinxing Fangzhou Housing Development Co., Ltd., (“Fangzhou”). On October 1, 2010, we acquired 100% shares of Xinxing Construction Co., Ltd, (“Xinxing Construction”). On July 28, 2011, we established Ankang Xinxing Jiyuan Real Estate Development Co., Ltd. (“Jiyuan”). 3 BUSINESS Overview We are a leading real estate development company headquartered in Xi’an doing business primarily in the western part of China. As such, we focus on real estate development opportunities in that region. Through our subsidiaries located in China, we are engaged in the development, construction, sale and management of residential and commercial real estate units, as well as land development in Shaanxi province, China. Tsining has completed a number of significant real estate development projects in Xi’an. Through Tsining, we will continue to expand our business into other developing urban markets in western China. Since its inception, our business model has proven to be efficient and profitable. We divide each project into five deployment phases, spanning from land acquisition to after sale services. Our average project development lasts over two years and begins to provide us with revenues after three quarters. Land Acquisition To date, we have been successful in acquiring land from many sources including open market auctions, co-development with local governments and through the acquisition of distressed assets, such as bankrupt factories. We have achieved this through our long-term relationships with the central and local governments. We rarely engage in open bidding for land. 4 Planning & Design We work with world class architecture firms for most of our projects and maintain an in-house design team to supplement projects with our significant local knowledge. We also deploy an advanced cost control system and an enterprise resource planning system, which enables us to monitor and analyze our construction costs and progress on a daily basis. Construction We acquired Xinxing Construction on October 1, 2010. Through ownership of our own construction arm, we can better guarantee our customers receive high quality housing products. We can also enhance our cost control procedures in monitoring the construction process and thereby increase our margins. Furthermore, we can maintain our strong track record of providing quality products on-time. Marketing & Pre-Sales We initiate the pre-sales process once we finish foundation construction and receive the requisite pre-sales permits from the government – our sales efforts are partly outsourced to external professionals. Currently, we work with well-known sales agents, such as E-House and World Union Properties, which ranked number 1 and 2 in China, respectively. Pre-sales provide us with income and many of our projects become cash flow positive within nine months. After Sales Service We always follow-up with our customers after a sale to foster good and lasting relationships as well as to help secure future recommendations. We also have a wholly-owned property management company which performs integrated after-sales services, such as maintenance. Corporate Information In October 2012, we moved to a new office building located at 1008 Liuxue Road, Baqiao District, Xi’an, 710038, People’s Republic of China. Our telephone number at this address is (86-29) 8258-2632 and our fax number is (86-29) 8258-2640. Investor inquiries should be directed to us at the address and telephone number of our principal executive offices set forth above. Our website is http://www.chldinc.com. Our Industry We focus primarily on the development, construction, sale and management of residential real estate properties in order to provide affordable housing to middle class consumers in western China. Our target demographic primarily consists of first time purchasers and first time up-graders. Our current development projects are located in Xi’an, Shaanxi Province, in the PRC. We have expanded into Ankang, a Tier III city in Shaanxi Province, and we will continue our expansion into other Tier II and Tier III cities in western China. Overall Industry Overview In early 2000, the Chinese real estate industry started to transition towards a market-oriented system. Although the Chinese government still owns all of the urban land in China, land use rights, with terms of up to 70 years, can be granted to, and owned or leased by, private individuals and companies. A large and active market in the private sector has developed for sales and transfers of land use rights that were initially granted by the Chinese government. All property units built on such land belongs to private developers for the period indicated. The recent transition in the real estate industry’s structure in China has fostered the development of real estate-related businesses, such as property development, property management and real estate agencies. The significant growth of the Chinese economy during the past decade has led to a significant expansion of the real estate industry. This expansion has been supported by other factors, including increasing urbanization, growing personal wealth, as well as the emergence of the mortgage lending market. Meanwhile, culturally, as real estate is the most important asset to many Chinese families, it attracts serious attention from the government. Thus, the Chinese government has imposed a series of policies intended to help the real estate industry to grow in a rational and healthy fashion. The following table sets forth selected statistics for the overall real estate industry in mainland China for the periods indicated. 5 Source: China Statistic Year Book (all government data is based on calendar year) With the advent of the global financial crisis in second half of 2008, the Chinese government instituted a number of measures designed to enhance the real estate industry and stimulate the economy. However, the average selling price of real estate increased dramatically and, in the second half of 2009, the government had to undertake measure to curb real estate prices. Government Policies Starting in April 2010, the Chinese central government introduced a number of polices to restrain housing prices from irrational increases. These polices mainly included differentiating mortgage purchases interest rates among first, and second home buyers (first time up-graders) and speculators, limiting housing demand by restricting housing purchases by non-resident buyers, increasing land supply and taxation measures. On the demand side, the Chinese central government took the following measures to reduce total demand in the real estate market: Since April 2010, the Chinese central government increased the mortgage rates for second home buyers to 110% of the benchmark rates and ceased approving third home mortgages. The down payments amount for second time home purchasers was also increased to up to 50% of the home cost. Further, though varied in different cities, most Tier I and Tier II cities forbade non-resident home purchases and resident third time home purchases in order to restrict speculation. In addition, a 20% capital gains tax would be collected for secondary housing transactions on real estate properties with a holding period of less than five years. A property tax was applied in Shanghai and Chongqing and will be expanded to cover more cities with large housing stocks. On the supply side, according to the China Ministry of Land and Resources, land supply for residential development was planned to increase to 1,726 million square meters during 2012, an increase of 38% compared with actual land supply in 2011. Social housing construction will accelerate to increase the housing supplies for first time home buyers. According to the Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development (MOHURD), the Chinese government will complete 4.7 million new social housing units in 2013, compared with 5 million units in 2012, and begin construction of 6.3 million units in 2013, compared with 7 million units in 2012. Apart from adjusting supply and demand, the central government required local governments to take certain measures to prevent real estate average selling prices (ASP) from increasing too fast as compared to local GDP growth rates or local income growth rates. During 2012, the Chinese real estate industry continued to be heavily influenced by government policies designed to create rational and healthy real estate industry growth. Although heavily regulated, the Chinese real estate industry still has strong fundamentals. Growth Drivers Western China We believe the residential real estate industry is well positioned to grow at comparable rates to economy growth for the next few years due to social, economic and government stimulus-related factors. Key growth drivers include the following: • “Go West” policy. The “Go West” policy encourages economic development in and population movement to western China, which includes 6 provinces, 5 autonomous regions and 1 municipality. These areas comprise 56% of mainland China’s land but only approximately 23% of its population. The policy was issued in 1999, and the plan is divided into 3 phases. Phase I (2001-2010) includes the development of infrastructure (transport, hydropower plants, energy, and telecommunications), enticement of foreign investment, increased ecological protection efforts (such as reforestation), promotion of education, and retention of talent that would otherwise flow to more affluent provinces. Based on improved infrastructure, strategic structuring, and system development from Phase I, Phase II (2011-2030) will foster specialized industry and further facilitate economic growth from industrialization and marketization, etc. Phase III (2031-2050) will further improve living standards for all the residents of western China, especially people in remote areas. As a result, significant foreign and domestic investments in Xi’an and throughout western China are set to support the growth of middle class incomes. 6 Source: China Statistic Year Book (all government data is based on calendar year) • Increasing Urbanization in China. The strong demand for residential properties is also driven, in part, by increasing urbanization. The urban population in China has grown significantly over the past 10 years, creating higher demand for housing in many cities. In 2012, China’s urbanization rate surpassed 52%, reaching 52.6%. The central government reiterated the importance of urbanization stimulation in early 2013. The table set forth below shows China’s urban population, total population and urbanization rates. • New urbanization trends of population to the West. The urbanization rate in Tier II cities is higher than the total population growth of China. Over 300 million urban new comers are expected to need housing in the next two decades. According to data from the Xi’an Statistical Bureau, in 2012 the population of Xi’an was 8.55 million, and the urbanization rate was 71.5%. The government projects the population will increase to 10.7 million and the urbanization rate will reach 80% in 2020. Source: National Bureau of Statistics. • China’s Rapidly Growing Middle-Class Population. China’s current population stands at over 1.3 billion and is expected to reach 1.4 billion by 2026. The middle-class is the fastest growing segment of the population with 130 million people in 2006 and is expected to grow to 500 million by 2026. The middle class is currently defined as house-holds with an annual income of between $6,000 and $25,000, with housing the number one expense category. Rapid urbanization and growth in consumer spending coupled with significant growth in disposable income per capita in urban areas (almost tripled from 2005 to 2012) and low levels of home ownership compared to western countries make the middle class a massive driver of the future growth in the Chinese real estate market. 7 Source: Global Demographics, PRC State Council Development Research Center and National Bureau of Statistics. Type of Cities in China According to Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, China had 118 cities with populations of over 1 million as of the end of 2008. These cities are divided into three categories/tiers. There are significant differences distinguishing Tier I cities from Tier II and Tier III cities in China: Tier I A group of four cities, located near the East Coast of China, compose the group of Tier I cities: Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen, and Guangzhou. These cities are more urbanized and have higher GDPs per capita than Tier II and Tier III cities. The residential real estate prices in Tier I cities have been skyrocketing and these price increases are the catalyst for many government policy changes. These cities have been targets of restrictive government policies. Tier II There are over 20 cities viewed as Tier II cities that have populations over 5 million people. The demand for real estate in Tier II cities is strong. Industrial expansion and improved infrastructure will support continued urbanization and fuel the growth of the real estate sector in these cities. However, we do see speculation and high housing prices in many tier II cities, and restrictive policies are enforced in tier II cities. Tier III Tier III cities are seldom affected by restrictive policies. Demand in such cities is great and mainly from first time home buyers who are encouraged by government policies. However, we do see increased competition in these cities as more developers expand into these cities to take advantage of the relatively fewer restrictive policies. Typically, housing is affordable for consumers in Tier II and Tier III cities compared to Tier I cities. Disposable income in Tier II and Tier III cities has increased faster than real estate prices. Source: Bureau of Statistics of the above cities 8 Economic Developments Rapid economic growth in eastern China has made Tier I cities more mature, making Tier II and Tier III cities a viable alternative for companies looking to reduce their costs. This has subsequently caused movement towards these Tier II and Tier III cities. Multinational corporations have been expanding out of mega cities along the east coast of China, such as Beijing, Shanghai, and Shenzhen, into neighboring and inland cities. Intel, for example, recently opened a development center in Chengdu, while the Liberty Mutual Group, the U.S. insurance giant, has chosen Chongqing for its Chinese headquarters. Unilever relocated its Chinese headquarters from Shanghai to the neighboring province of Hefei due to the lower labor and land costs as well as the city’s strategic location. The Chinese government has also been instrumental in stimulating regional growth by designating certain Tier II regions as priority zones. These actions are benefitting Xi’an, our primary market. City of Xi’an Background Xi’an served as the capital of China during 13 dynasties (from West Zhou in 1066 BC to Tang in 907 AD) and is well known for its Terracotta Army and other famous historic landmarks. Today, the city’s economic leadership is derived from its high-tech, pharmaceutical, national defense, aerospace, tourism, and advanced education industries. The PRC government’s “Go West” policy has designated Xi’an as the regional economic hub of western China. To further encourage western China’s development, the central government plans to establish the Central Shaanxi Plain Economic Region that will help enable the free flow of people, skills, capital, and trade amongst the western provinces. Xi’an, as the economic center of western China, will play a unique leadership role among the western Tier II cities. Xi’an is becoming an international city that boasts a large and educated work force. The city has China’s third largest university-educated workforce, making it a hotbed for research & development (“R&D”), high-tech manufacturing and information technology (“IT”) solutions. Xi’an has begun to attract high-tech companies, including IBM, Applied Materials, Micron Technology, and Infineon. Applied Materials, for example, selected Xi’an for its $255 million phase one R&D center that will design and develop equipment for semiconductor chip manufacturing. In addition, Micron Technology has invested $250 million in Xi’an for packaging and testing of semiconductor chips, and GE established its China innovation center in Xi’an in 2011. China has announced its intention to become a world-class center for information technology R&D, production, outsourcing and services to in order rival and perhaps surpass the success of India’s IT industry. Xi’an, having been designated by the government as one of five China “Outsourcing Bases”, is expected to play an important role in that effort. Similar to Bangalore and Hyderabad in India, the Xi’an local government is carving out a niche in IT outsourcing by creating the 400,000 square-meter Xi’an Software Park (the “Park”). The Park has already attracted top software and technology companies, including IBM, which is the government’s joint venture partner in creating the Park. Sybase, SPSS, Nortel, and NEC are already operating in the Park. The Xi’an local government has laid out a master plan through the year 2020 to foster economic transformation and urbanization. For example, Xi’an is now limiting development in the city’s famous historical “Gated Wall City” (or “Inner Ring”), which will be revamped primarily for tourism. The city plans to relocate about 450,000 residents from the Inner Ring to the second, third, and fourth rings of the city and beyond. One of the most ambitious plans is the development of a new satellite city in the Baqiao district, about eight kilometers from Xi’an’s city center. The Xi’an local government is developing the Baqiao district into the “First Water City of the West”, complete with high-end residential properties and hotels, international convention centers and a high-tech industry center. The new urban area will be home to 900,000 middle-to-upper income residents, to firms in industries that include R&D, services and high-tech, and to the potential headquarters for the Chinese operations of multinational corporations. Emerging as an International City Xi’an has been designated by the PRC government to be one of three international cities in China along with Beijing and Shanghai. Thus, Xi’an’s local government has been proactive in enhancing the city’s international image by hosting world class events like the Euro-Asia Economic Forum every second year and the Formula One Powerboat World Championship. To attract international tourists, Xi’an is leveraging its famous historical and cultural significance. Xi’an has revamped its tourism infrastructure in numerous ways, including the redevelopment of the famous Terracotta Army historical park. It also has selected China’s largest construction company to build a RMB 20 billion ($3 billion) theme park and residential and commercial redevelopment project on the grounds of the famous Da Ming Gong Palace that was built 1,300 years ago during the Tang Dynasty. The city has also built out infrastructure to attract international travelers and, in turn, is drawing large foreign retailers. Several large retailers have entered Xi’an, including Wal-Mart, Carrefour, and Metro of Germany. Xi’an’s historic mystique and economic potential have also lured top luxury brands, including Louis Vuitton, Gucci, Prada and Versace to open outlets in the city. 9 Xi’an Real Estate Market Strong fundamentals During 2012, the GDP of Xi’an increased 11.8% to RMB 436.9 billion (US$69.4 billion). Average urban disposable income increased to RMB 29,982 (US$4,759), a real increase of 12.3% compared with that of 2011. Real estate investment in 2012 totaled RMB 128.2 billion (US$20.3 billion), an increase of 28.6%. We believe that demographic and economic factors, including the emerging high-tech industries and the increasing influx of foreign capital will stimulate Xi’an’s future growth. In 2012, the Xi’an population was 8.6 million people; the average urban living area per person was 33 square meters. Despite the solid economic growth and rising housing demand, average real estate prices in Xi’an are still less than half of those in the mega cities such as Shanghai, Beijing and Shenzhen. Xi’an: Growing, leading, and still affordable In conjunction with its role as the economic hub of western China, Xi’an’s disposable income per capita has increased significantly over the past several years, as shown below. However, compared with other cities, Xi’an’s housing is relatively affordable. Source: NBS, Xi’an Bureau of Statistics, CEIC Source: NBS, Xi’an Bureau of Statistics, CEIC 2012 Real estate market impacted by government policies During 2012, the central government continued restrictive policies on the real estate market. Most cities saw slower real estate investment, stable or reduced transaction volumes and average selling prices, and some cities even experienced reduced average selling prices. Through enforcement of affordable housing investment, the central government intended to restructure the real estate market in China. As a Tier II city, Xi’an implemented all the restrictive policies required by the central government. In late February of 2011, Xi’an’s local government put forward local restrictive policies limiting housing purchases. Additionally, Xi’an’s local government required that the average selling price increase of newly built residential products should be less than 15%, and such an increase must not surpass Xi’an’s GDP growth rate and disposable income growth rate. During 2012, the Xi’an local government carried out an additional policy limiting real estate profit margin to 10%. However, compared with other tier I and tier II cities, Xi’an’s restrictive policies were characterized as fairly mild. 2012 Xi’an Market update Overall, the restrictive policies resulted in lower transaction volumes during the year. According to E-House (China), Xi’an’s transaction volume reached 11.6 million square meters in 2012, representing a 26.6% decrease as compared with that of 2011. Average selling price increased 4.0% from RMB 7,324 to RMB 7,619 per square meter. 10 According to a Chinese Real Estate Investment Council’s (the “CRIC”) research report, the supply outpaced the demand in Xi’an’s real estate market in 2012. This imbalance has caused an increase in market inventory to 11.7 million square meters, which would take 12 months to destock. Generally, under rebounding demand and restrictive policies, Xi’an real estate market was stable in both transaction volume and average selling price. 2013 Xi’an Real Estate Market Outlook We believe that these government policies will still play an important role in Xi’an’s real estate market. The central government will continue restrictive policies and tighten credit policies, but the local government will take certain measures to boost local GDP and local government fiscal revenue. Additionally, we saw customer hesitation created by government policies starting to decline with increased demand from first time home buyers. In general we believe the real estate market in Xi’an will be stable in 2013. City of Ankang and Ankang Real Estate Market Ankang city is located 260 kilometers to the south of Xi’an, has a population of over 2.6 million. According to the Ankang Bureau of Statistics, during 2012, Ankang’s GDP totaled RMB 51.3 billion (US$8.1 billion) with a year over year growth rate of 15.2%, ranking it second in Shaanxi Province. Average urban disposable income achieved US$3,222 with a growth rate of 16.9%. Real Estate in Ankang is much less subject to restrictive policies compared with tier I and tier II cities. Real estate purchases in Ankang are mainly from first time home buyers. During 2012, the average selling price of real estate in Ankang was about RMB 4,500 (US$714) per square meter, compared with RMB 7,619 (US$1,209) in Xi’an. Given the lower cost of labor and materials, real estate development in Ankang could achieve around 30% gross margins, which is on the same historical level as projects we have completed in Xi’an. Competitive Landscape The real estate development business in China is organized into four levels under the structure of the “Qualification Certificate for Real Estate Development Enterprises”. The starting level is Level 4 (see table below). A company may climb the scale to participate in larger projects. However, only one level may be ascended per year. We attained Level 1 status under the Chinese Ministry of Construction licensing policy in December 2009. 11 Registered Capital (million) Experience (years) Developed Area (square feet) Level 1 US$ 6.25 5 3,229,278 Level 2 US$ 2.5 3 1,614,639 Level 3 US$ 1 2 538,213 Level 4 US$ 0.125 1 N/A On the national level, there are numerous Level 1 companies involved in real estate projects across China (to develop in multiple regions a Level 1 status is required). There are 180 housing and land development companies listed on the Shanghai, Shenzhen and Hong Kong Stock Exchanges. We continued to see increased competition in the Xi’an real estate market. According to E-house (China), during 2012, the top 10 real estate companies accounted for 34% of the total market, compared with 33% and 27% in 2011 and 2010, respectively. Most of these companies are national players, but we are aware of three companies in Xi’an which could be considered to be our direct competitors in the small to medium sized project sector: Xi’an Tande co., ltd. (Level 1) (“Tande”) is one of the largest real estate developers in Xi’an. Tande is a state-owned enterprise that was established in May 1991 and was subsequently listed on the Shanghai Exchange in 2006. Tande generally undertakes larger scale projects and has expanded its business into Shengzhen, Suzhou, Shanghai and Tianjin. As Tande is state-owned, it needs to complete a certain amount of government projects including building public spaces and infrastructure. These requirements can negatively impact Tande’s profitability. 12 Xi’an Titan Real Estate co., ltd (Level 1) (“Titan”) was established in 2001 and mainly operates in Xi’an. The company has nine projects on sale and two projects in the planning phase in Xi’an. The company has recently entered Chengdu, Jinan, Kunshan and Nanjing. Xi’an Ziwei Development Company (Level 1) (“Ziwei”) is a state-owned enterprise that was established in 1999. This company has completed eight projects and has eight projects currently under development. Since Ziwei is controlled by the Xi’an High-Tech Zone Government most of Ziwei’s developments are located in the northwest section of Xi’an city. Our Projects Projects Under Construction Project Name Type of Projects Actual or Estimated Construction Period Actual or Estimated Pre-sale Commencement Date Total Site Area (m2) Total Gross Floor Area (m2) Sold GFA by December 31, 2012 (m2) Puhua Phase Two Multi-Family residential & Commercial Q2/2010 - Q4/2013 Q2/2010 47,300 261,090 119,629 Ankang Project Multi-Family residential & Commercial Q2/2012 - Q3/2015 Q4/2012 74,820 243,152 2,200 Park Plaza Multi-Family residential & Commercial Q1/2012 - Q2/2014 Q1/2013 44,250 149,822 0 Puhua Phase Three Multi-Family residential & Commercial Q2/2012 - Q2/2014 Q1/2013 30,600 129,300 0 Project name Total Number of Units Number of Units sold by December 31, 2012 Estimated Revenue ($ millions) Contracted Revenue by December 31, 2012 ($ millions) Recognized Revenue by December 31, 2012 ($ millions) Puhua Phase Two 1,587 1,026 246.7 103.3 93.4 Ankang Project 2,121 106 206.3 6.9 0 Park Plaza 694 0 154.0 0 0 Puhua Phase Three 1,899 0 152.9 0 0 Puhua Phase Two: The construction of Puhua Phase Two began in the second quarter of 2010. It is one of Puhua’s four projects; it’s total estimated revenue is $256.5 million. The contract revenue for Puhua Phase Two was $103 million as of December 31, 2012. Ankang Project: The Ankang project is located in Ankang city, which is approximately 260 kilometers south of Xi’an in China’s Shanxi Province. The project consists of residential buildings and a commercial area. Construction started in the second quarter of 2012, and presales started in the fourth quarter of 2012, but because it did not meet revenue recognition criteria, we were unable to recognize any revenue during the fourth quarter of 2012. Total GFA of the project is expected to reach 243,152 square meters. Total projected revenue is estimated to be $171.9 million. Park Plaza: In July 2009, the Company entered into a Letter of Intent to acquire 44,250 square meters of land in the center of Xi’an for the Park Plaza project. In March 2011, the Company officially acquired the land use right for Park Plaza. The Company intends to develop a large mid-upper income residential and commercial project on this site, with a gross floor area of 141,822 square meters. The four-year construction of Park Plaza started in the second quarter 2012. We have started accepting pre-sale purchase agreements and revenues from pre-sale agreements will begin to be recognized when all revenue recognition criteria have been met. The total revenue from Park Plaza is estimated to be $154 million. Puhua Phase Three: Puhua Phase Three project covers 30,600 square meters with a total GFA of 177,193 square meters. We have started pre-sale of Puhua Phase Three during the first quarter of 2013 and we will start recognizing revenues based on the percentage of completion method. 13 Projects Under Planning and in Process Project Name Type of Projects Estimated Construction Period Estimated Pre-sale Commencement Total Site Area (m2) Total GFA (m2) Total Number of Units Baqiao New Development Zone Land Development 2009- 2020 N/A N/A N/A N/A Puhua Phase Four Multi-Family residential & Commercial Q2/2013 - Q42014 Q3/2013 61,087 263,833 N/A Golden Bay Multi-Family residential & Commercial Q2/2013 - Q4/2014 Q3/2013 146,099 252,540 N/A Textile City Multi-Family residential & Commercial Q3/2013 - Q3/2018 Q3/2014 433,014 630,000 N/A Baqiao New Development Zone: On March 9, 2007, we entered into a Share Transfer Agreement with the shareholders of Xi’an New Land Development Co., Ltd. (“New Land”), under which the Company acquired 32,000,000 shares of New Land, constituting 100% equity ownership of New Land. This acquisition gave the Company the exclusive right to develop and sell 487 acres of land in a newly designated satellite city of Xi’an (the “Baqiao Project”). Xi’an has designated the Baqiao District as a major resettlement zone where the city expects 900,000 middle to upper income inhabitants to settle. The Xi’an local government intends to create a thriving commercial and residential zone similar to Pudong, Shanghai, which has provided many new economic opportunities and significant amounts of housing for Shanghai’s growing population. The Xi’an municipal government plans investments of RMB 50 billion (over $7.6 billion) in infrastructure in the Baqiao New Development Zone. The construction of a large-scale public wetland park is well underway. It will enhance the natural environment adjacent to China Housing’s Baqiao Project. Through our New Land subsidiary, we sold 18.4 acres to another developer in 2007 and generated about $24.41 million in revenue. In 2008, we established a joint venture with Prax Capital Real Estate Holdings Limited (“Prax Capital”) to develop 79 acres within the Baqiao Project, which will be the first phase of the Baqiao Project’s development. Prax Capital invested $29.3 million in the joint venture. The joint venture is further described in the Puhua section below. In December 2010, we signed a preliminary contract with the government with the intention to acquire a 107 acre tract of land for development of a new real estate housing project. The new project, with an estimated total GFA of 630,000 square meters, is expected to begin in the third quarter of 2013. After selling 18.4 acres, placing 79 acres in the Puhua project and approximately 42 acres in the Golden Bay Project and setting aside 107 acres for the Textile City project, approximately 241 acres remain available for the Company to develop in the Baqiao Project. Puhua Phase Four: Puhua Phase Four covers 61,087 square meters with a total GFA of 216,611 square meters. Construction is anticipated to begin in the second quarter of 2013, and we expect to begin accepting pre-sale purchase agreements in the following quarter. Golden Bay: The Golden Bay project is located within the Baqiao project, with a total GFA of 252,540 square meters. The Golden Bay project will consist of residential buildings as well as a commercial area. Construction was anticipated to begin in the second quarter of 2013, and we expect to begin accepting pre-sale purchase agreements in the third quarter of 2013. The Company is planning on obtaining the land use right from the government in April 2013. This will be funded by a private fund company. The estimated price for the land use right will be around $40 million. Textile City: The Textile City project is located within the Baqiao New Development Zone. The project consists of residential buildings and a commercial area. Construction is expected to start in the fourth quarter of 2013, and the entire project will take five years. 14 Major Completed Projects with Units Available for Sale Project name Type of Projects Completion Date Total Site Area (m2) Total GFA (m2) Total Number of Units Number of Units sold by December 31, 2012 Puhua Phase One Multi-Family residential & Commercial Q4/2012 47,600 137,137 858 832 Junjing III Multi-Family residential & Commercial Q4/2012 8,094 52,220 531 522 JunJing II Phase One Multi-Family residential & Commercial Q4/2009 39,524 142,214 1,215 1,211 JunJing I Multi-Family residential & Commercial Q3/2006 55,588 167,931 1,671 1,668 Puhua Phase One: Puhua Phase One is one of Puhua’s four phases. The total estimated revenue for the project is $130 million and the Company has generated contract revenue of $107 million as of December 31, 2012. JunJing III: JunJing III is located near our JunJing II project and the city expressway. It has a GFA of about 52,220 square meters. The project consists of three high rise buildings, each 28 to 30 stories high. The project is targeting middle to high income customers who require a high quality living environment and convenient transportation to the city center. We started construction during the fourth quarter of 2010 and pre-sales began during the fourth quarter of 2011. The project was completed in the fourth quarter of 2012. As of December 31, 2012, we have recognized $49.5 million in revenue out of $50.2 million in contract sales. JunJing II Phase One: We started the construction of JunJing II Phase One in the third quarter of 2007 and started the pre-sale campaign in the second quarter of 2007. The project was completed in December 2009 and generated total revenue of $100.8 million. JunJing II Phase Two has been mostly sold out. Tsining JunJing I: 369 North Jinhua Road, Xi’an. That is the first “German” style residential & commercial community in Xi’an, designed by the world-famous WSP architectural firm. Its target customers were local middle income families. The project has 15 residential apartment buildings consisting of 1,671 one to five bedroom apartments. The project features secured parking, cable TV, hot water, heating systems, and access to natural gas. Total GFA is 167,931 square meters. JunJing I is also a commercial venture that houses small businesses serving the needs of JunJing I residents and surrounding residential communities. The project was completed in September 2006. Sales and Marketing Pre-Sales and Sales In China, developers typically start to market and offer properties before construction is completed. Under PRC pre-sales regulations, property developers must satisfy specific conditions before they can pre-sell properties that are under construction. These mandatory conditions include: • the land premium must have been paid in full; • the land use rights certificate, the construction site planning permit, the construction work planning permit and the construction permit must have been obtained; • at least 25% of the total project development cost must have been incurred; • the progress and the expected completion and delivery date of the construction must be fixed; • the pre-sale permit must have been obtained; and • the completion of certain milestones in the construction process, which have been specified by the local government authorities, must occur. These mandatory conditions require a certain level of capital expenditure and substantial progress in project construction occur before commencement of pre-sales. Developers are required to file all pre-sale contracts with the local land bureaus and real estate administrations after entering into such contracts. We benefit from a strong sales and marketing platform which is complemented by the efforts of professional third party sales agents. As we strive to develop lasting relationships with our customers, the majority of our sales are generated by recommendations from existing customers. The new sales initiatives of our sales department generate approximately 60% of our total sales. More than 80% of our customers are first time home buyers. After-sale Services and Delivery We assist customers in arranging financing as well as in various title registration procedures related to their properties. We have also set up an ownership certificate team to assist purchasers in obtaining property ownership certificates. We closely monitor the progress of construction of our property projects and conduct pre-delivery property inspections to ensure timely delivery of a high quality product. The time frame for delivery is set out in the sale and purchase agreements we enter into with our customers and we are subject to penalty payments to the purchasers for any delays in delivery caused by us. Once a property development has been completed and has passed the requisite government inspections, we will notify our customers and hand over their keys as well as possession of their properties. We operate a wholly owned property management company that manages our properties and their ancillary facilities. We frequently follow-up with our customers after the sale to foster good and lasting relationships as well as future referrals. 15 Marketing As of December 31, 2012, we maintain a marketing and sales force for our development projects with 26 professionals specializing in marketing and sales. We also train and use outside real estate agents to market and increase the public awareness of our products and our brand. However, we primarily let our own sales force represent our brand and our projects rather than rely on third-party brokers or agents as we believe our own dedicated sales representatives are better motivated to serve our customers and to control the pricing and selling expenses of our properties. Quality Control We utilize various quality controls to ensure that our buildings and residential units meet high standards. Through our contractors, we provide customers with warranties covering the building structure as well as certain fittings and facilities of our property developments in accordance with the relevant regulations. To ensure construction quality, our construction contracts contain quality warranties and penalty provisions for poor work quality. We do not allow contractors to subcontract or transfer their contractual obligations to third parties. We typically withhold 5% of the agreed construction fees for two to five years after completion of the construction as a deposit against any construction quality issues. This deposit helps to incentivize contractors to deliver a quality product. Governmental and environmental Regulations To date, we have been compliant with all registrations and requirements for the issuance and maintenance of all licenses required by the applicable governing authorities in China. These licenses include: •“Qualification Certificate for Real Estate Development” authorized by the Shaanxi Construction Bureau, effective from December 20, 2009 to December 20, 2012. License No: JianKaiQi (2006) 603. The Company has applied for the renewal of the qualification and is waiting for the approval from government and the Company is confident in obtaining the renewal. The housing and land development process is regulated by the Ministry of Construction and authorized by the local offices of the Ministry. Each development project must obtain the following licenses: Ø“License for Construction Area Planning” and “License for Construction Project Planning”, authorized by Xi’an Bureau of Municipal Design; and Ø“Building Permit” authorized by the Committee of Municipal and Rural Construction. After construction is complete, the project must meet certain standards in order to obtain a validation certificate. These standards are regulated by the local Ministry of Construction Bureau. Housing and land development sales companies are regulated by the Ministry of Land & Natural Resources and are authorized by the local office of the Ministry. Each project has to be authorized and must obtain a “Commercial License for Housing Sale” from the Real Estate Bureau. Employees As of December 31, 2012, we had 611 employees. We believe we have a good working relationship with our employees. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. At present, no significant change in our staffing is expected over the next 12 months. All employees are eligible for performance-based compensation. 16 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities is speculative and involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this prospectus before purchasing any of our securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties may also adversely impair our business operations. If any of the events described in the risk factors below actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer significantly. In such case, the value of your investment could decline and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our securities. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement. Some of these important factors, but not necessarily all important factors, include the following: Risks Related to Our Business Our home sales and operating revenues could decline due to macro-economic and other factors outside of our control, such as changes in consumer confidence and declines in employment levels. Changes in national and regional economic conditions, as well as local economic conditions where the Company conducts its operations and where prospective purchasers of its homes live, may result in more caution on the part of homebuyers and consequently fewer home purchases. These economic uncertainties involve, among other things, conditions of supply and demand in local markets and changes in consumer confidence and income, employment levels, and government regulations. These risks and uncertainties could periodically have an adverse effect on consumer demand for and the pricing of our homes, which could cause our operating revenues to decline. In addition, builders are subject to various risks, many of them outside the control of the homebuilder including competitive overbuilding, availability and cost of building lots, materials and labor, adverse weather conditions, cost overruns, changes in government regulations, and increases in real estate taxes and other local government fees. A reduction in our revenues could in turn negatively affect the market price of our securities. An increase in mortgage interest rates or the unavailability of mortgage financing may reduce consumer demand for the Company’s homes. Virtually all purchasers of our homes finance their acquisitions through lenders providing mortgage financing. A substantial increase in mortgage interest rates or unavailability of mortgage financing would adversely affect the ability of prospective homebuyers to obtain the financing they would need in order to purchase our homes, as well as adversely affect the ability of prospective upgrading homebuyers to sell their current homes. For example, if mortgage financing becomes less available, demand for our homes could decline. A reduction in demand could also have an adverse effect on the pricing of our homes because we and our competitors may reduce prices in an effort to better compete for home buyers. Price reductions could result in a decline in our revenues and in our margins. We could experience a reduction in home sales and revenues or reduced cash flows if we are unable to obtain reasonably priced financing to support our homebuilding and land development activities. The real estate development industry is capital intensive, and development requires significant up-front expenditures to acquire land and begin development. Accordingly, we incur substantial indebtedness to finance our homebuilding and land development activities. Although we believe that internally generated funds and current borrowing capacity will be sufficient to fund our capital and other expenditures (including land acquisition, development and construction activities), the amounts available from such sources may not be adequate to meet our needs. If such sources are not sufficient, we would seek additional capital in the form of debt or equity financing from a variety of potential sources, including bank financings and securities offerings. Our ability to secure sufficient financing for land use rights acquisition and property development depends on a number of factors that are beyond our control, including market conditions in the capital markets, investors’ perception of our securities, lenders’ perception of our creditworthiness, the PRC economy and the PRC government regulations that affect the availability and cost of financing for real estate companies. Furthermore, the availability of borrowed funds to be utilized for land acquisition or development and construction, may decline, and, as a result, the lending community may require increased amounts of equity to be invested in a project by borrowers in connection with new loans and this could render obtaining funds more difficult if not impossible. In turn, the failure to obtain sufficient capital to fund our planned capital and other expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including industry and market conditions, our ability to successfully implement new branding and marketing initiatives and expansion of our production capabilities. We anticipate that we may need to raise additional funds in order to grow our business and implement our business strategy. We anticipate that any such additional funds may be raised through equity or debt financings. In addition, we may enter into a revolving credit facility or a term loan facility with one or more syndicates of lenders. Any equity or debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that are not favorable to us. Even if we are able to raise capital through equity or debt financings, as to which there can be no assurance, the interest of existing shareholders in our company may be diluted, and the securities we issue may have rights, preferences and privileges that are senior to those of our common stock or may otherwise materially and adversely affect the holdings or rights of our existing shareholders. If we cannot obtain adequate capital, we may not be able to fully implement our business strategy, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” In addition, we have and will continue to raise additional capital through private placements or registered offerings, in which broker-dealers may be engaged. The activities of such broker-dealers are highly regulated and we cannot assure that the activities of such broker-dealers will not violate relevant regulations and generate liabilities despite our expectations otherwise. 17 We are subject to extensive government regulation which could make it difficult for us to obtain adequate funding or additional funding. Various PRC regulations restrict our ability to raise capital through external financings and other methods, including, but not limited to, the following: • we cannot pre-sell uncompleted residential units in a project prior to achieving certain development milestones specified in related regulations; • PRC banks are prohibited from extending loans to real estate companies to fund the purchase of land use rights; • we cannot borrow from a PRC bank for a particular project unless we fund at least 35% of the total investment amount of that project using our own capital; • we cannot borrow from a PRC bank for a particular project if we do not obtain the land use right certificate for that project; • property developers are strictly prohibited from using the proceeds from a loan obtained from a local bank to fund property developments outside of the region where the bank is located; and • PRC banks are prohibited from accepting properties that have been vacant for more than three years as collateral for a loan. The PRC government may introduce other measures that limit our access to additional capital. In November 2007, the China Bank Regulatory Commission, or the CBRC, provided policy guidelines to PRC banks and Chinese subsidiaries of foreign banks that loans outstanding at December 31, 2007 should not exceed the level of outstanding loans as of October 31, 2007. This lending freeze may limit our ability to access additional loans or to roll over existing loans as they mature, and may also prevent or delay potential customers’ abilities to secure mortgage loans to purchase residential properties. In addition, on July 10, 2007, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued a circular restricting a foreign invested property developer’s ability to raise capital through foreign debt, if such developer is established after June 1, 2007 or increases its registered capital after June 1, 2007. Under this circular, our ability to utilize the proceeds of this offering to provide funding to our PRC operations is significantly limited. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funding to finance intended purchases of land use rights, develop future projects or meet other capital needs as and when required at a commercially reasonable cost or at all. Failure to obtain adequate funding at a commercially reasonable cost may limit our ability to commence new projects or to continue the development of existing projects or may increase our borrowing costs. We are subject to extensive government regulation which may cause us to incur significant liabilities or may restrict our business activities. Regulatory requirements could cause us to incur significant liabilities and operating expenses and could restrict our business activities. We are subject to statutes and rules regulating, among other things, certain developmental matters, building and site design, and matters concerning the protection of health and the environment. Our operating expenses may be increased by governmental regulations such as building permit allocation ordinances and impacts as well as other fees and taxes, which may be imposed to defray the cost of providing certain governmental services and improvements. Any delay or refusal from government agencies to grant us necessary licenses, permits and approvals could have an adverse effect on our operations. Our shareholders may be subject to substantial dilution. On January 28, 2008, we issued $20,000,000 in our 5.0% Senior Secured Convertible Notes (“Notes”). The Investors have the right to convert up to 45% ($9 million) of the principal amount of the Convertible Debt into common shares at an initial conversion price of $5.57, subject to an upward adjustment. The Company, at its discretion, may redeem the remaining non-convertible portion of Convertible Debt ($11 million) (the “Non-convertible Portion”) at 100% of the principle amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, we issued warrants to acquire shares of our common stock at $6.07 per share of common stock (the “Warrants”), exercisable at any time after January 28, 2008 to and including February 28, 2013, the expiration date of the Warrants. These securities have anti-dilution protection provisions, which will become operative upon our issuance of additional securities at prices below specified dollar amounts. In addition, the holders of these securities were granted registration rights. The holders may choose to convert part or all of their Notes into our common shares. If we issue additional securities at a price lower than the specified amount, we may have to issue additional securities to the holders. If any, or a combination of such events occurs, the proportionate ownership interest of our existing shareholders may be diluted. On June 10, 2010, the Company and the Investors entered into an amendment (the “Amendment”), which granted Investors the rights to convert the $11 million Non-convertible Portion of the Convertible Debt. The rights expire five business days after the effective date of the registration statement registering the shares to be issued on the conversion. 18 The warrants issued in 2008 were amended as well to permit the investors to exercise the Warrants on a cashless basis and receive one common share for every two Warrants held if the investor converts at least 55% of face amount of Convertible Debt held. Upon entering the Amendment, certain investors had agreed to convert 55% of the aggregate face amount of debt to common shares and convert the Warrants by receiving one common share for every two warrants held within five business days after the effective date of the registration statement filed by the Company. On January 25, 2011, certain investors requested and the Company’s Board approve the request to convert the $9,763,000 non-convertible portion of the convertible debt into 1,752,778 common shares with the related warrants exercised on a two-one cashless basis. The conversion effective on February 16, 2011. Since the Company’s registration statement became effective on February 25, 2011, the right to convert the $11 million non-convertible portion of the Convertible Debt and to exercise the warrants on a cashless basis and receive one common share for every two warrants expired as of December 31, 2011. The Company repaid all the convertible debt by the end of 2012. We may be unable to acquire desired development land sites at commercially reasonable costs. Our revenue depends on the completion and sale of our projects, which in turn depend on our ability to acquire development sites. Our land use rights costs are a major component of our cost of real estate sales and increases in such costs could diminish our gross margin. In China, the PRC government controls the supply of land and regulates land sales and transfers in the secondary market. As a result, the policies of the PRC government, including those related to land supply and urban planning, affect our ability to acquire, and our costs of acquiring, land use rights for our projects. In recent years, the government has introduced various measures attempting to limit investment in the property market in China. Although we believe that these measures are generally targeted at the luxury property market and speculative purchases of land and properties, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not introduce other measures in the future that adversely affect our ability to obtain land for development. We currently acquire some of our development sites through company bankruptcies. Under current regulations, land use rights acquired from government authorities for commercial and residential development purposes must be purchased through a public tender, auction or listing-for-sale. We may not be able to continue to purchase land use rights from companies in bankruptcy and our land use rights costs may increase in the future, which may lead to a decrease in our profit margin. In addition, we may not successfully obtain desired development sites due to the increasingly intense competition in the land acquisition process. Moreover, the supply of potential development sites in any given city will diminish over time and we may find it increasingly difficult to identify and acquire attractive development sites at commercially reasonable costs in the future. We depend on the availability of additional human resources for future growth. We believe that continued expansion is essential for us to remain competitive and to capitalize on the growth potential of our business. Such expansion may place a significant strain on our management and operations and financial resources. As our operations continue to grow, we will have to continually improve our management, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, and other resources infrastructure, and expand our workforce. There can be no assurance that our existing or future management, operating and financial systems, procedures and controls will be adequate to support our operations, or that we will be able to recruit, retain and motivate our personnel. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish, develop or maintain the business relationships beneficial to our operations, or to do so or to implement any of the above activities in a timely manner. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business and the results of our operations and financial condition. We may be adversely affected by fluctuations in raw material prices and selling prices of our products. Our projects and the raw materials we use have experienced significant price fluctuations in the past. There is no assurance that they will not be subject to future price fluctuations or pricing controls. The land and raw materials we use may experience price volatility caused by events such as market fluctuations or changes in governmental programs. The market prices of land and raw materials may also experience significant upward adjustment, if, for instance, there is a material under-supply or over-demand in the market. These price changes may ultimately result in increases in the selling prices of our products, and may, in turn, adversely affect our sales volume, revenue and operating profit. We could be adversely affected by the occurrence of natural disasters. From time to time, our development sites may experience strong winds, storms, flooding and earth quakes. Natural disasters could impede operations or damage infrastructure necessary to our construction projects and operations. The occurrence of natural disasters could adversely affect our business and the results of our operations, as well as our prospects and financial condition. 19 We are dependent on third-party subcontractors, manufacturers, and distributors for all construction services and the supply of construction materials, and a discontinued supply of such services and materials could adversely affect our construction projects. The Company is dependent on third-party subcontractors, manufacturers, and distributors for all construction services and the supply of construction materials. Construction services or products purchased from the Company’s five largest subcontractors/suppliers accounted for 27% of the total purchases for the year ended December 31, 2012. A disruption in the supply of such services and materials will adversely affect our construction projects. Intense competition from existing and new entities may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In general, the property development industry is intensely competitive and highly fragmented. We compete with various companies. Many of our competitors are more established than we are and have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we presently possess. Some of our competitors have greater name recognition and a larger customer base. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities and customer requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We intend to create greater awareness for our brand name so that we can successfully compete with our competitors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively or successfully with current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not harm our business. Our operating subsidiaries must comply with environmental protection laws and such compliance could adversely affect our profitability. We are required to comply with the environmental protection laws and regulations promulgated by the national and local governments of the People’s Republic of China (“PRC” or “China”). Some of these regulations govern the level of fees payable to government entities providing environmental protection services and the prescribed standards relating to the construction projects. Although our construction technologies allow us to efficiently control the level of pollution resulting from our construction process, due to the nature of our business, waste is unavoidably generated in such processes. If we fail to comply with any of these environmental laws and regulations in the PRC, depending on the type and seriousness of the violation, we may be subject to, among other things, warnings from relevant authorities, the imposition of fines, specific performance and/or criminal liability, forfeiture of profits made, being ordered to close down our business operations and/or suspension of relevant permits. Our success depends on our management team and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. Our future success will depend in substantial part on the continued service of our senior management, including Mr. Pingji Lu, our Chairman, and Mr. Xiaohong Feng, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could impede implementation of our business plan and result in reduced profitability. We do not carry key person life or other insurance for any of our officers or employees. Our future success will also depend on the continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical sales and marketing customer support personnel. Because of the rapid growth of the economy in PRC, competition for qualified personnel is intense. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to retain our key personnel or that we will be able to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel in the future. The recognition of our real estate revenue and costs relies upon our estimation of total project sales value and cost. We recognize our real estate revenue based on the percentage of completion method depending on the estimated project construction period. Under this method, revenue and costs are calculated based on an estimation of total project costs and total project revenue, which are revised on a regular basis as the work progresses. Any material deviation between the actual and the estimated total project sales and costs may result in an increase, a reduction or an elimination of reported revenues or costs from period to period, and, as a result, such deviations could have an impact on our net income of the fiscal year. Our failure to assist our customers in applying for property ownership certificates in a timely manner may lead to compensatory liabilities to our customers. We are required to meet various requirements within 90 days after delivery of our properties, or such other period as contracted with our customers, in order for our customers to apply for their property ownership certificates. These requirements include obtaining various governmental clearances, and complying with various formalities and procedures. Under our sales contracts, we are liable for any delay in the submission of the required documents that is a result of our failure to meet such requirements, and, in such cases, we are required to compensate our customers for such delays. In the case of serious delays on one or more property projects, we may be required to pay significant compensation to our customers and our reputation may be adversely affected. We do not have insurance to cover potential losses and claims. We do not have insurance coverage against potential losses or damages with respect to our properties before their delivery to customers, nor do we maintain insurance coverage against liability from tortious acts or other personal injuries on our project sites. Although we require our contractors to carry insurance, we believe most of our contractors do not comply with this requirement. Our contractors may not be sufficiently insured themselves or have the financial ability to absorb any losses that arise with respect to our projects or pay our claims. In addition, there are certain types of losses, such as losses due to earthquakes, which are currently uninsurable in China. While we believe that our practice is in line with the general practice in the PRC property development industry, there may be instances when we will have to internalize losses, damages and liabilities because of the lack of insurance coverage, which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 20 We may fail to obtain, or may experience material delays in obtaining necessary government approvals for any major property development, which could adversely affect our business. The real estate industry is strictly regulated by the PRC government. Property developers in China must abide by various laws and regulations, including rules promulgated by local governments to enforce these laws and regulations. Before commencing, and during the course of, development of a property project, we need to apply for various licenses, permits, certificates and approvals, including land use rights certificates, construction site planning permits, construction work planning permits, construction permits, pre-sale permits and completion acceptance certificates. We need to satisfy various requirements to obtain these certificates and permits. To date, we have not encountered serious delays or difficulties in the process of applying for these certificates and permits, but we cannot guarantee that we will not encounter serious delays or difficulties in the future. In the event that we fail to obtain the necessary governmental approvals for any of our major property projects, or a serious delay occurs in the government’s examination and approval progress, we may not be able to maintain our development schedule and our business and cash flows may be adversely affected. We may forfeit land to the PRC government if we fail to comply with procedural requirements applicable to land grants from the government or the terms of the land use rights grant contracts. According to the relevant PRC regulations, if we fail to develop a property project according to the terms of the land use rights grant contract, including those relating to the payment of land premiums, specified use of the land and the time for commencement and completion of the property development, the PRC government may issue a warning, may impose a penalty or may order us to forfeit the land. Specifically, under current PRC law, if we fail to commence development within one year after the commencement date stipulated in the land use rights grant contract, the relevant PRC land bureau may issue a warning notice to us and impose an idle land fee on the land of up to 20% of the land premium. If we fail to commence development within two years, the land will be subject to forfeiture to the PRC government, unless the delay in development is caused by government actions or force majeure. Even if the commencement of the land development is compliant with the land use rights grant contract, if the developed General Floor Area (“GFA”) on the land is less than one-third of the total GFA of the project or the total capital invested is less than one-fourth of the total investment of the project and the suspension of the development of the land continues for more than one year without government approval, the land will also be treated as idle land and be subject to penalty or forfeiture. We cannot assure you that circumstances leading to significant delays in our development schedule or forfeiture of land will not arise in the future. If we forfeit land, we will not only lose the opportunity to develop the property projects on such land, but may also lose all past investments in such land, including land premiums paid and development costs incurred. As a public company, we are required to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we fail to comply with the reporting obligations of the Exchange Act and Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or if we fail to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As a public company, we are required to comply with the periodic reporting obligations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), including preparing annual reports and quarterly reports. Our failure to prepare and disclose this information in a timely manner could subject us to penalties under U.S. federal securities laws, expose us to lawsuits and restrict our ability to access financing. In addition, we are required under applicable law and regulations to design and implement internal controls over financial reporting, and evaluate our existing internal controls with respect to the standards adopted by the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. We cannot assure you that we will not identify control deficiencies that may constitute significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls in the future. As a result, we may be required to implement further remedial measures and to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through future reviews. This could result in significant delays and costs to us and require us to divert substantial resources, including management time, from other activities. If we do not fully remediate the material weaknesses identified by management or fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in the future, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, effective internal controls are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, any failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 on a timely basis could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Risk Relating to the Residential Property Industry in China Our global income and the dividends we receive from our PRC subsidiary may be subject to PRC tax under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 21 Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008, an enterprise established outside of the PRC with “de facto management bodies” within the PRC is considered a resident enterprise and will be subject to the enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its global income. The implementation rules define the term “de facto management bodies” as “establishments that carry out substantial and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel, accounting, properties, etc. of an enterprise.” The State Administration of Tax, or SAT, issued the Notice Regarding the Determination of Chinese-Controlled Offshore Incorporated Enterprises as PRC Tax Resident Enterprises on the Basis of De Facto Management Bodies, or Circular 82, on April 22, 2009. Circular 82 provides certain specific criteria for determining whether the “de facto management body” of a Chinese-controlled offshore-incorporated enterprise is located in China. Although Circular 82 only applies to offshore enterprises controlled by PRC enterprises, not those controlled by PRC individuals, like our company, the determining criteria set forth in Circular 82 may reflect SAT’s general position on how the “de facto management body” test should be applied in determining the tax resident status of offshore enterprises, regardless of whether they are controlled by PRC enterprises or individuals. Accordingly, we may be considered a resident enterprise and may therefore be subject to the enterprise income tax at 25% on our global income. If we are considered a resident enterprise and earn income other than dividends from our PRC subsidiary, a 25% enterprise income tax on our global income could significantly increase our tax burden and materially and adversely affect our cash flow and profitability. Under the applicable PRC tax laws in effect before January 1, 2008, dividend payments to foreign investors made by foreign-invested enterprises in China and paid to the foreign investors, such as Tsining Housing Development, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. Pursuant to the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, however, dividends generated after January 1, 2008 and payable by a foreign-invested enterprise in China to its foreign investors will be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless any such foreign investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a different withholding arrangement. The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules provide that PRC withholding tax at the rate of 10% will generally be applicable to dividends derived from sources within the PRC and received by non-PRC enterprise shareholders. Similarly, gains derived from the transfer of shares by such shareholders are also subject to PRC enterprise income tax if such gains are regarded as income derived from sources within the PRC. We are a U.S. holding company and substantially all of our income may come from dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, primarily those located in China. If the dividends we pay to our shareholders, or the gains our non-PRC shareholders may realize from the transfer of our common shares are be treated as PRC-sourced income, 10% PRC withholding tax will be imposed. In addition, because there remains uncertainty regarding the interpretation and implementation of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, it is uncertain whether, if we are regarded as a PRC resident enterprise, any dividends to be distributed by us to our non-PRC shareholders would be subject to any PRC withholding tax. Hence we cannot assure you that such dividends will continue to be exempt from PRC income tax law. If we are required under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC corporate shareholders, your investment in our common shares may be materially and adversely affected. We may rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have, and any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiary to pay dividends to us could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct our business. We are a holding company, and we may rely principally on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries for our cash and financing requirements, which include the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders and to service any debt we may incur. In the future, if our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their abilities to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Under PRC laws and regulations, our PRC subsidiaries, as foreign invested enterprises in the PRC, may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. In addition, a foreign invested enterprise is required to set aside at least 10% of its accumulated after-tax profits each year, if any, to fund certain statutory reserve funds, until the aggregate amount of such fund reaches 50% of its registered capital. At its discretion, it may allocate a portion of its after-tax profits based on PRC accounting standards to staff welfare and bonus funds. These reserve funds and staff welfare and bonus funds are not distributable as cash dividends. Any limitation on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends, or otherwise fund and conduct our business. The majority of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Pursuant to the Foreign Currency Administration Rules promulgated on January 29, 1996 and amended on January 14, 1997 and various regulations issued by the Administration for Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) and other relevant PRC government authorities, Renminbi is freely convertible only to the extent of current account items, such as trade-related receipts and payments, interest and dividends. Capital account items, such as direct equity investments, loans and repatriation of investments, require the prior approval from the SAFE or its local branch for conversion of Renminbi into a foreign currency such as U.S. dollars, and remittance of the foreign currency outside the PRC. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy its foreign currency-denominated obligations. Currently, each of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends to us and payment of license fees and service fees to foreign licensors and service providers, without the approval of SAFE. However, approval from the SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. 22 The enforcement of the Labor Contract Law and other labor-related regulations in the PRC may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. On June 29, 2007, the National People’s Congress of China enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. Compared to the Labor Law, the Labor Contract Law establishes more restrictions and increases costs for employers to dismiss employees, including specific provisions related to fixed-term employment contracts, temporary employment, probation, consultation with the labor union and employee assembly, employment without a contract, dismissal of employees, compensation upon termination and overtime work, and collective bargaining. According to the Labor Contract Law, an employer is obliged to sign a labor contract with an unlimited term with an employee if the employer continues to hire the employee after the expiration of two consecutive fixed-term labor contracts or the employee has worked for the employer for ten consecutive years. The employer also has to pay compensation to an employee if the employer terminates an unlimited-term labor contract. Such compensation is also required when the employer refuses to renew a labor contract that has expired, unless it is the employee who refuses to extend the expired contract. In addition, under the Regulations on Paid Annual Leave for Employees, which became effective on January 1, 2008, employees who have served more than one year for an employer are entitled to a paid vacation ranging from 5 to 15 days, depending on their length of service. Employees who waive such vacation time at the request of employers shall be compensated for three times their regular salaries for each waived vacation day. According to the above PRC central government and local regulations, we are required to pay to the designated government agencies various statutory employee benefits, including pensions, housing funds, medical insurance, work-related injury insurance, unemployment insurance and childbearing insurance for all employees. At the same time, we are required to pay statutory employee benefits based on the local government pre-set contribution ratio, and accrue provisions for unpaid employee benefits based on relevant central government regulations. Thus, we cannot be certain that such accrued amounts will be sufficient to meet any additional employee benefits payments that we are required to pay in the future. As a result of these new measures designed to enhance labor protection, our employee costs are expected to increase, which may adversely affect our business and our results of operations. We are heavily dependent on the performance of the residential property market in China, which is in a relatively early stage of development. The residential property industry in the PRC is still in a relatively early stage of development. Although demand for residential property in the PRC has been growing rapidly in recent years, such growth is often coupled with volatility in market conditions and fluctuation in property prices. It is extremely difficult to predict how much and when demand will develop, as many social, political, economic, legal and other factors, most of which are beyond our control, may affect the development of the market. The level of uncertainty is increased by the limited availability of accurate financial and market information as well as the overall low level of transparency in the PRC, especially in Tier II cities which have lagged in progress in these aspects when compared to Tier I cities. The lack of a liquid secondary market for residential property may discourage investors from acquiring new properties. The limited amount of property mortgage financing available to PRC individuals may further inhibit demand for residential developments. We face intense competition from other real estate developers. The property industry in the PRC is highly competitive. In the Tier II cities in which we operate, local and regional property developers are our major competitors, and an increasing number of large state-owned and private national property developers have started entering these markets. Many of our competitors, especially the state-owned and private national property developers, are well capitalized and have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. Some also have larger land banks, greater economies of scale, broader name recognition, a longer track record and more established relationships in certain markets. In addition, the PRC government’s recent measures designed to reduce land supply further increased competition for land among property developers. Competition among property developers may result in increased costs for the acquisition of land for development, increased costs for raw materials, shortages of skilled contractors, oversupply of properties, decrease in property prices in certain parts of the PRC, a slowdown in the rate at which new property developments will be approved and/or reviewed by the relevant government authorities and an increase in administrative costs for hiring or retaining qualified personnel, any of which may adversely affect our business and financial condition. Furthermore, property developers that are better capitalized than we are may be more competitive in acquiring land through the auction process. If we cannot respond to changes in market conditions as promptly and effectively as our competitors or effectively compete for land acquisition through the auction process or fail to compete on other terms with our competition, our business and financial condition will be adversely affected. 23 In addition, risk of property over-supply is increasing in parts of China, where property investment, trading and speculation have become overly active. We are exposed to the risk that in the event of actual or perceived over-supply, property prices may fall drastically, and our revenue and profitability could be adversely affected. The PRC government may adopt further measures to slow the growth of the property sector. Along with the economic growth in China, investments in the property sectors have increased significantly in the past few years. In response to concerns over the scale of the increase in property investments, the PRC government has introduced policies to slow property development. We believe the following regulations, among others, significantly affect the property industry in China. In May 2006, the Ministry of Construction, National Development and Reform Commission, or the NDRC, People’s Bank of China (the “PBOC”) and other relevant PRC government authorities jointly issued the Opinions on Adjusting the Housing Supply Structure and Stabilizing the Property Prices, which introduced measures to limit resources allocated to the luxury residential market. For instances, the new measures require that after June 1, 2006 at least 70% of a residential project must consist of units with a Gross Floor Area (“GFA”) of less than 90 square meters per unit, and, if it has a unit GFA of 90 square meters or more and the property is purchased for residence purpose only, the minimum amount of down payment was increased from 20% to 30% of the purchase price of the underlying property. In September 2007, the PBOC and the China Banking Regulatory Commission issued the Circular on Strengthening the Management of Commercial Real Estate Credit Facilities, which increased the minimum down payment for any purchase of second or subsequent residential property to 40% of the purchase price if the purchaser had obtained a bank loan to finance the purchase of his or her first property. In February 2011, the Xi’an local government increased the minimum down payment for a second residential property purchase to 60% of the purchase price and restricted any further purchases. In July 2006, the Ministry of Construction, the Ministry of Commerce, the NDRC, the PBOC, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) issued Opinions on Regulating the Entry and Administration of Foreign Investment in Real Property Market, which impose significant requirements on foreign investment in the PRC real estate sector. For instance, these opinions set forth requirements for registered capital of a foreign invested real property enterprise as well as thresholds for a foreign invested real property enterprise to borrow domestic or overseas loans. In addition, in May 2007, the Ministry of Commerce and SAFE jointly issued the Notice on Further Strengthening and Regulating the Approval and Supervision of Foreign Investment in Real Estate Market, which requires, a foreign invested real property enterprise approved by local authorities to register such approvals with the Ministry of Commerce. Adopting to the PRC government’s restrictive regulations and measures to curtail overheating of the property sector could increase our operating costs, limit our access to capital resources or even restrict our business operations. We cannot be certain that the PRC government will not issue additional and more stringent regulations or measures, which could further slow down property development in China and adversely affect our business and prospects. Our sales will be affected if mortgage financing becomes more costly or otherwise becomes less attractive. Substantially all purchasers of our residential properties rely on mortgages to fund their purchases. An increase in interest rates may significantly increase the cost of mortgage financing, thus affecting the affordability of residential properties. In 2008, the PBOC changed the lending rates five times. The benchmark lending rate for loans with a term of over five years, which affects mortgage rates, was increased to 5.94% on August 30, 2010. The PRC government and commercial banks may also increase the down payment requirement, impose other conditions or otherwise change the regulatory framework in a manner that would make mortgage financing unavailable or unattractive to potential property purchasers. Under current PRC laws and regulations, purchasers of residential properties generally must pay at least 20% of the purchase price of the properties before they can finance their purchases through mortgages. In May 2006, the PRC government increased the minimum amount of down payment to 30% of the purchase price of the underlying property if such property has a unit GFA of 90 square meters or more and the property is purchased for residence purpose only. In September 2007, the minimum down payment for any purchase of a second or subsequent residential property was increased to 40% of the purchase price if the purchaser had obtained a bank loan to finance the purchase of his or her first property. Moreover, the interest rate for bank loans of such purchases shall not be less than 110% of the PBOC benchmark rate of the same term and category. In February 2011, the Xi’an local government increased the minimum down payment for a second residential property purchase to 60% of the purchase price and restricted any further purchases. In addition, mortgagee banks may not lend to any individual borrower if the monthly repayment of the anticipated mortgage loan would exceed 50% of the individual borrower’s monthly income or if the total debt service of the individual borrower would exceed 55% of such individual’s monthly income. If the availability or attractiveness of mortgage financing is reduced or limited, many of our prospective customers may not be able to purchase our properties and, as a result, our business, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. In line with industry practice, we provide guarantees to PRC banks with respect to loans procured by the purchasers of our properties for the total amount of such mortgage loans. Such guarantees expire upon the completion of the registration of the mortgage with the relevant mortgage registration authorities. If there are changes in laws, regulations, policies, and practices that would prohibit property developers from providing guarantees to banks in respect of mortgages offered to property purchasers and as a result, banks would not accept any alternative guarantees by third parties, or if no third party is available or willing in the market to provide such guarantees, it may become more difficult for property purchasers to obtain mortgages from banks and other financial institutions during sales and pre-sales of our properties. Such difficulties in financing could result in a substantially lower rates of sales and pre-sales of our properties, which would adversely affect our cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations. We are not aware of any impending changes in laws, regulations, policies, or practices that will prohibit such practices in China. However, there can be no assurance that such changes in laws, regulations, policies, or practices will not occur in China in the future. 24 The PRC government from time to time introduces certain policy and regulatory measures to cool down the real estate market and we have seen the effects of such policies and regulatory measures in certain cities. Since the second half of 2009, the PRC real estate market has experienced exponential growth and housing prices rose rapidly in certain cities. In response to concerns over the scale of the increase in property investments, the PRC government has implemented measures and introduced policies to slow property development and promote the healthy development of the real estate industry in the PRC. In April 2010, the general office of the PRC State Council issued a circular to all ministries and provincial-level local governments. Among other matters, the circular provided as follows: purchasers of a first residential property for their households with a gross floor area of greater than 90 square meters must make down payments of no less than 30% of the purchase price; purchasers of a second residential property for their households must make down payments of no less than 50% of the purchase price and the interest rate of any mortgage for such property must equal at least the benchmark interest rate plus 10%; and for purchasers of a third residential property, both the minimum down payment amount and applied interest rate must be significantly higher than the relevant minimum down payment and interest rate which would have been applicable prior to the issuance of the circular. In order to implement the requirements set forth in the State Council’s circular, the People’s Bank of China and the Ministry of Land and Resources issued implementing regulatory measures to restrict mortgage lending and tighten the availability of land resources for future constructions. In cities such as Beijing and Shanghai, we have seen the effects of such policies and regulatory measures. The sales volumes for real properties in Beijing and Shanghai decreased significantly after the policy change. The sale prices for certain properties in such cities also weakened. The PRC government’s policy and regulatory measures on the PRC real estate sector could limit our access to required financing and other capital resources, adversely affect the property purchasers’ ability to obtain mortgage financing or significantly increase the cost of mortgage financing, reduce market demand for our properties and increase our operating costs. These factors may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our sales, revenues and operations will be affected if our customers are not able to secure mortgage financing on attractive terms, if at all. Substantially all purchasers of our residential properties rely on mortgages to fund their purchases. If the availability or attractiveness of mortgage financing is reduced or limited, many of our prospective customers may not be able to purchase our properties and, as a result, our business, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected. Certain circulars issued by the PRC State Council and related measures taken by ministries and local governments have restricted and may continue to restrict the ability of purchasers to qualify for or obtain mortgage financing. For example, under a circular issued in April 2010, certain purchasers of our properties can no longer qualify for loans and this led to cancellations of our existing sales and the returning of down payments by us to those persons who had previously entered into contracts with us to purchase a unit but were unable to obtain a mortgage within the 30-day period after the contract date. PRC government may issue further restrictive measures in the future. On February 25, 2011, Xi’an’s government put forward a local restrictive policy. The policy prohibits residential housing purchases for 1) non-local residents who are not able to provide a local tax payment certificate for over one year, and 2) local residents who are already in possession of two residential units. The policy also limits residential housing purchases for 1) non-local residents, who are able to provide local tax payment certificates over one year, to only one unit, 2) local residents, who are already in possession of only one residential unit, to one additional residential unit. We cannot assure you that the PRC government will not issue further restrictive measures in the future. The PRC government’s restrictive regulations and measures could increase our operating costs in adapting to these regulations and measures, limit our access to capital resources or even restrict our business operations, which could further adversely affect our business and prospects. An increase in interest rates will increase our customers’ mortgage financing which may further adversely affect the real estate market in the PRC. An increase in interest rates may significantly increase the cost of mortgage financing, thus affecting the affordability of residential properties. According to a circular issued in April 2010, financial institutions must determine the applicable loan interest rate and down-payment ratio for non-welfare residential property according to the following factors: (i) whether the borrower is purchasing a property for the first time; (ii) whether the borrower is purchasing the property for his/her own use; (iii) whether the property purchased is an ordinary residential property; and (iv) risk factors including the borrower’s credit records and payment ability. Increases in mortgage financing costs may dampen people’s desire to purchase residential properties and adversely affect the real estate market in the PRC. 25 The Company’s PRC subsidiaries have taken the position that they are compliant with the taxation, environmental, employment and social security rules of China, and if that position turns out to be wrong, they may face penalties imposed by the PRC government. While the Company believes its PRC subsidiaries have been in compliance with PRC taxation, environmental, employment and social security rules during their operations in China, the Company has not obtained letters from the PRC government authorities confirming such compliance. If any PRC government authority takes the position that there is non-compliance with the taxation, environmental protection, employment and social security rules by any of the Company’s PRC subsidiaries, they may be exposed to penalties from such PRC government authority, in which case the operation of the Company’s PRC subsidiaries in question may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Doing Business in China China’s economic policies could affect our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to any economic, political or legal developments in China. While China’s economy has experienced significant growth over the past 20 years, such growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but they may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. The economy of China has been changing from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years, the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reforms, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets, and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises; however, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, the control of payments of foreign currency-denominated obligations, the setting of monetary policy and the provision of preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Capital outflow policies in China may hamper our ability to remit income to the United States. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive all of our revenue in RMB. Under our current corporate structure, our U.S. holding company may rely on dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries to fund any cash and financing requirements we may have. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) by complying with certain procedural requirements. Therefore, our PRC subsidiaries are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to us without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from or registration with appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into a foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. This could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financings, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. In the future, the PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currencies to satisfy our foreign currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in Renminbi. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. Pursuant to the Foreign Currency Administration Rules promulgated on January 29, 1996 and amended on January 14, 1997 and various regulations issued by SAFE and other relevant PRC government authorities, Renminbi is freely convertible only to the extent of current account items, such as trade-related receipts and payments, interest and dividends. Capital account items, such as direct equity investments, loans and repatriation of investments, require the prior approval from SAFE or its local branch for conversion of Renminbi into a foreign currency such as U.S. dollars, and remittance of the foreign currency outside the PRC. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy its foreign currency-denominated obligations. Currently, each of our PRC subsidiaries and affiliates may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions”, including payment of dividends to us and payment of license fees and service fees to foreign licensors and service providers, without the approval of SAFE. However, approval from the SAFE or its local branch is required where Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. 26 The fluctuation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in the PRC’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. The conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including U.S. dollars, has been based on exchange rates set by the People’s Bank of China. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB solely to the U.S. dollar. Under this revised policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. Since the removal of the U.S. dollar peg, the RMB has appreciated more than 30% against the U.S. dollar. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how RMB exchange rates may change going forward. Any significant revaluation of the Renminbi may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues and financial condition. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars we receive from an offering of our common stock into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making dividend payments on our common shares or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi, the value of the U.S. dollar equivalent we could receive on conversion would be reduced. Any significant devaluation of the Renminbi may reduce our operation costs in U.S. dollars but may also reduce our earnings in U.S. dollars. In addition, the depreciation of significant U.S. dollar denominated assets could result in a charge to our income statement and a reduction in the value of those assets. There can be no assurance that the Renminbi will not be subject to devaluation. We may not be able to hedge effectively against Renminbi devaluation, so there can be no assurance that future movements in the exchange rate of the Renminbi and other currencies will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain approval for sufficient foreign exchange amounts to pay dividends or satisfy other foreign exchange requirements in the future. It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforcement of legal judgments upon our Company and our officers and directors because some of them reside outside the United States. As our operations are presently based in China and some of our key directors and officers reside outside the United States, service of process on our key directors and officers may be difficult to effect within the United States. Also, substantially all of our assets are located outside the United States and any judgment obtained in the United States against us may not be enforceable outside the United States. Moreover, our PRC counsel has advised us that the PRC does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of court judgments. In order to minimize this risk of nonenforcement, we have appointed Pingji Lu, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as our agent to receive service of process in any action against our company in the United States. If relations between the United States and China worsen, our stock price may decrease and we may have difficulty accessing the U.S. capital markets. At various times during recent years, the United States and China have had disagreements over political and economic issues. Controversies may arise in the future between these two countries. Any political or trade conflicts between the United States and China could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to access U.S. capital markets. We may face obstacles from the communist system in China. Foreign companies conducting operations in China face significant political, economic and legal risks. The political system in China, which includes a cumbersome bureaucracy, may hinder western investment in the Company. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in China. China historically has not adopted a western style of management or financial reporting concepts and practices, modern banking, computing or other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, methods of collecting financial data and preparing financial statements and accounting and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet western standards. It will be extremely difficult to establish jurisdiction and enforce liabilities against our officers, directors, and assets based in China. Because some of the Company’s executive officers and directors, including, the chairman of the Board of Directors, are Chinese citizens, it may be difficult, if not impossible, to obtain jurisdiction over these persons in the event a lawsuit is initiated against us and or our officers and directors by a stockholder or group of stockholders in the United States. Also, because the majority of our assets are located in China, it would also be extremely difficult to access those assets to satisfy an award entered against the Company in a United States court. 27 Interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves uncertainty. Our core business is conducted within China and is governed by PRC laws and regulations. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions can only be used as a reference. Since 1979, the PRC government has promulgated laws and regulations in relation to economic matters such as foreign investment, corporate organization and governance, commerce, taxation and trade, with a view to developing a comprehensive system of commercial law, including laws relating to property ownership and development. However, due to the fact that these laws and regulations have not been fully developed, and because of the limited volume of published cases and the non-binding nature of prior court decisions, interpretation of PRC laws and regulations involves a degree of uncertainty. Some of these laws may be changed without being immediate publication or may be amended with retroactive effect. Depending on the government agency or how an application or case is presented to such agency, we may receive less favorable interpretations of laws and regulations than our competitors, particularly if a competitor has long been established in the locality of, and has developed a relationship with such agency. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and a diversion of resources and management attention. All of these uncertainties may cause difficulties in the enforcement of our land use rights, entitlements under our permits, and other statutory and contractual rights and interests. We may face judicial corruption in the People’s Republic of China. Another obstacle to foreign investment in the People’s Republic of China is corruption. There are no assurances that we will be able to obtain recourse, if desired, through the People’s Republic of China’s comparably poorly developed and sometimes corrupt judicial systems. Risks Related to Our Common Stock There is no assurance of an established public trading market for our securities, which may adversely affect the ability of investors in our company to sell their securities on the public markets. Although our common stock trades on the NASDAQ, a regular trading market for the securities may not be sustained in the future. Market prices for our common stock will be influenced by a number of factors, including: • the issuance of new equity securities; • changes in interest rates; • competitive developments, including announcements by competitors of new products or services or significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • variations in quarterly operating results; • change in financial estimates by securities analysts; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; • investor perceptions of our company and the real estate industry generally; and • general economic and other national conditions. The limited prior public market and trading market may cause volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on the NASDAQ under the symbol “CHLN.” The quotation of our common stock on the NASDAQ does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like us. Our common stock is thus subject to volatility. In the absence of an active trading market: • investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; • market visibility for our common stock may be limited; and • a lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market for our common stock. Our principal stockholders, current executive officers and directors own a significant percentage of our Company and will be able to exercise significant influence over our Company. Our executive officers and directors and principal stockholders together beneficially own 24.58% of the voting power of our outstanding voting capital stock. These stockholders will be able to influence the composition of our Board of Directors, will retain the voting power to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and will continue to have significant influence over our affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could have a material and adverse effect on the market price of our common stock or prevent our stockholders from realizing a premium over the market prices for their shares of our common stock. Our common stock could be considered to be a “penny stock.” Our common stock could be considered to be a “penny stock” if it meets one or more of the definitions in Rules 15g-2 through 15g-6 promulgated under Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These include but are not limited to the following: (i) the stock trades at a price less than $5.00 per share; (ii) it is NOT traded on a “recognized” national exchange; (iii) it is NOT quoted on the NASDAQ, or even if so, has a price less than $5.00 per share; or (iv) is issued by a company with net tangible assets less than $2.0 million, if in business more than a continuous three years, or with average revenues of less than $6.0 million for the past three years. The principal result or effect of being designated a “penny stock” is that securities broker-dealers cannot recommend the stock but must trade in it on an unsolicited basis. 28 As of March 28, 2013, our stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market and has a price of $1.5 per share. Broker-dealer requirements may affect trading and liquidity. Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder by the SEC require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. Potential investors in our common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be “penny stocks.” Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii) reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. The dilutive effect of future issuances of securities may have an adverse impact on a shareholder’s proportionate ownership interest. The existing shareholders do not have preemptive rights in any securities issued in the future. The rights of existing shareholders may be diluted by any such issuance. The issuance of shares of our securities in additional capital raising transactions may dilute, and thereby reduce, each existing shareholder’s proportionate ownership interest in our securities. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of our restricted stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. From time to time, some of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), subject to certain limitations. The SEC adopted amendments to Rule 144 which became effective on February 15, 2008. Under these amendments, a person who has beneficially owned restricted shares of our common stock or warrants for at least six months would be entitled to sell their securities provided that (i) such person is not deemed to have been one of our affiliates at the time of, or at any time during the three months preceding, a sale and (ii) we are subject to the Exchange Act periodic reporting requirements for at least three months before the sale. Persons who have beneficially owned restricted shares of our common stock or warrants for at least six months but who are our affiliates at the time of, or at any time during the three months preceding, a sale, would be subject to additional restrictions, under which such person would be entitled to sell within any three-month period only a number of securities that does not exceed the greater of either of the following: • 1% of the total number of securities of the same class then outstanding; or • the average weekly trading volume of such securities during the four calendar weeks preceding the filing of a notice on Form 144 with respect to the sale; Provided, in each case, that we are subject to the Exchange Act periodic reporting requirements for at least three months before the sale. Such sales both by affiliates and by non-affiliates must also comply with the manner of sale, current public information and notice provisions of Rule 144. 29 